ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks along with the other information contained in this report. The following risks could materially adversely affect our business and, as a result, our financial condition, results of operations, and the market price of our common stock. Other risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently do not recognize as material also could materially adversely affect our business and, as a result, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to the Restatement and Other Accounting Issues The Restatement of our 2008 Financial Statements and related investigations and process and control remediation were time consuming and expensive and had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We devoted substantial resources to the completion of the Restatement of our 2008 Financial Statements and remediation of the process and internal control failures that precipitated the Restatement. As a result of these efforts, as of November 3, 2013, we have incurred approximately $147 million in fees and expenses, primarily for additional audit, financial, legal and related costs. We expect to continue to incur additional fees and expenses in connection with complying with applicable SEC reporting requirements and the operation of some of our processes and internal controls. These costs, as well as the substantial management time devoted to address these issues, had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Although we settled an investigation by the SEC, we may be the subject of litigation relating to the Restatement, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. As previously reported, the Company was the subject of a non-public investigation by the SEC related to the Company’s accounting practices that led to the restatement of the Company’s 2008 financial statements. On January 10, 2013, the SEC filed a settled enforcement action against the Company in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Although the Company has settled this matter with the SEC, additional regulatory inquiries may also be commenced. In addition, we may in the future be subject to additional litigation, or other proceedings or actions arising in relation to the restatement of our historical financial statements or the accounting matters that were addressed in the SEC investigation or related matters. Litigation and any regulatory proceeding or action may be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. In the event that there is an adverse ruling in any legal or regulatory proceeding or action, we may be required to make payments to third parties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Furthermore, regardless of the merits of any claim, legal proceedings may result in substantial legal expense and could also result in the diversion of time and attention by our management. Our insurance coverage may not cover any costs and expenses related to this potential litigation. In addition, we indemnify our officers, directors and certain employees for certain events or occurrences while the employee, officer or director is, or was, serving at our request in such capacity, as permitted under New York law. We have paid and continue to pay legal counsel fees incurred by our present and former directors, officers and employees who are involved with the SEC inquiry, the Restatement, and related review by the Board of Directors. We currently hold insurance policies for the benefit of our current and former directors and officers, although our insurance coverage may not be sufficient in some or all of these matters. Furthermore, the insurers may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters, in which case we may have to self-fund all or a substantial portion of our indemnification obligations. 9 Table of Contents Our failure to timely comply with our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act may have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital and compensate our employees. As a result of our failure to comply timely with our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, we are subject to a number of restrictions regarding the registration of our securities, including our common stock, under federal securities laws. Until such time as we have regained compliance with our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act for certain periods of time and meet certain other conditions, we will be unable to use shorter and less costly filings, including Registration Statements on Form S-3 and Form S-8. Being required to use the Registration Statement Form S-1 is likely to be more costly and time consuming. These restrictions reduce our access to capital markets and limit our ability to use equity-based awards as a way to reward and motivate certain of our employees, both of which may adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to the Economy and our Industry Our business is adversely affected by current economic and other business conditions. The global economy continues to show the effects of a prolonged economic downturn and slow recovery characterized by high unemployment and decreased consumer and business spending. In the past our business has suffered during such downturns, and our business has similarly suffered during the recent downturn. A weakened economy in which unemployment levels are relatively high may result in decreased demand for contingent and permanent personnel, which adversely impacts our Staffing Services segment. When economic activity slows, many of our customers reduce their use of contingent workers before undertaking layoffs of their own employees, resulting in decreased demand for contingent workers. Decreased demand and higher unemployment levels result in lower levels of pay rate increases and increased pressure on our markup of staffing service rates and direct margins and higher unemployment costs. Since employees are also reluctant to risk changing employers, there are fewer openings available and, therefore, reduced activity in permanent placements. In recent years, many of our customers have significantly reduced their workforce, including their use of contingent labor. The continuation of the current business climate is likely to continue to adversely affect our business. In all of our business segments, we have experienced competition and pressure on price, margins and markups for renewals of customers’ contracts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete in our business segments without impacting revenue or margins. Additionally, our efforts to manage costs in relation to our business volumes may not be successful, and the timing of these efforts and associated earnings charges may adversely affect our business. Certain customers have also begun to contract for staffing services through managed service providers who assume all payment obligations on behalf of the end-customer to service suppliers such as Volt. These managed service providers may present greater credit risks than the end-customer and some of these managed service providers have in the past, and could in the future, default on their obligations to us, adversely impacting our business. The contingent staffing industry is very competitive with few significant barriers to entry. Our Staffing Services segment is in a very competitive industry with few significant barriers to entry. The worldwide contingent staffing industry is also highly fragmented. In the United States, approximately 100 competitors operate nationally and approximately 6,000 smaller companies compete in varying degrees at local levels. Some of our principal competitors in this segment are larger and have significantly more financial resources than we do. These competitors may be better able than we are to attract and retain qualified personnel, to offer more favorable pricing and terms, and otherwise attract and retain the business that we seek. In addition, some of the segment’s customers, generally larger companies, are mandated or otherwise motivated to utilize the services of small or minority-owned companies rather than publicly held corporations such as Volt, and have redirected substantial amounts of their staffing business to those companies. We also face the risk that certain of our current and prospective customers may decide to provide similar services internally. 10 Table of Contents There has been a significant increase in the number of customers consolidating their staffing services purchases with a single provider or a small number of providers. This trend to consolidate purchases has, in some cases, made it more difficult for us to obtain or retain customers. Additionally, pricing pressures have intensified as customers have continued to competitively bid contracts. This trend is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will not encounter increased competition and lower margins in the future. Risks Related to our Capital Structure and Finances Our credit agreement contains restrictive covenants. Our existing credit facilities include restrictive covenants which limit our ability to, among other things, change our lines of business and engage in certain consolidations, mergers, liquidations, or dissolutions. These covenants could limit our ability to react to market conditions or to otherwise engage in transactions beneficial to us. Risks Related to our Particular Customers and the Projects on which We Work Our project related businesses are subject to delays, unanticipated costs and cancellations that may result in unforeseen costs, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. In some of our contracts we guarantee certain results of a project, such as the substantial completion of a project by a scheduled date, performance testing levels, results and other performance requirements. Failure to meet those criteria could result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, which could exceed our projected profit. Many projects involve engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over several years. We may encounter difficulties in design or engineering, delays in receiving designs or materials provided by our customers or third parties, delays in equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays from our customers’ failure to timely obtain rights required to perform or complete a project, weather-related delays and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, that could impact our ability to complete projects in accordance with the original delivery schedules. In addition, we often contract with subcontractors to assist us with our responsibilities, and any delay or poor performance by subcontractors may result in delays in the overall progress of projects or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. Delays and additional costs may be substantial, we may not be able to recover any or all of these costs and our revenues and operating profits could be significantly reduced. We also may be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns. Delays or cancellations also may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. At times, project contracts may require customers or other parties to provide the specifications, design, engineering information, equipment or materials to be used on a project. In some cases, the project schedule or the design, engineering information, equipment or materials may be deficient or delivered later than required by the project schedule. In addition, our customers may change or delay various elements of a project after commencement, resulting in additional direct or indirect costs. Under these circumstances, we generally attempt to negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. We may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, mediation, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for additional work or expense incurred by us due to customer change orders or failure by the customer to deliver items, such as engineering or design drawings, specifications or materials on time. Litigation, arbitration or mediation of claims for compensation may be lengthy and costly, and may not ultimately result in us receiving adequate compensation for these matters, which could adversely affect our results of operations or cash flows. Delays or cancellations also may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. Many of our contracts either provide no minimum purchase requirements, are cancellable during the term, or both. In our Staffing Services segment most contracts are not sole source, and many of our contracts, even those with multi-year terms, provide no assurance of any minimum amount of revenue. Under many of these contracts 11 Table of Contents we still must compete for each individual placement or project. In addition, many of our long-term contracts contain cancellation provisions under which the customer can cancel the contract at any time or on relatively short notice, even if we are not in default under the contract. Therefore, these contracts do not provide the assurances that typical long-term contracts often provide and are inherently uncertain with respect to the revenues and earnings we may recognize with respect to our customer contracts. Consequently, in all our business segments, if customers do not utilize our services under existing contracts or do not renew existing contracts, that could adversely affect our results of operations or cash flows. Our Computer Systems segment is highly dependent on our customers’ call volume and their acceptance and adoption of our OnDemand product. Revenues in our Computer Systems segment are highly dependent on the volume of directory assistance calls to our customers. The volume of such calls has declined, and will likely continue to decline, as consumers utilize free listings offered by alternative sources, including listings available on the internet, and from consolidation in the telecommunications industry which gives our customers greater negotiating power. Many of our contracts in this segment provide for us to be paid based on the volume of calls, while our costs of meeting the contractual service levels are largely fixed. Decreases in call volume that we are not able to offset with lowered costs could adversely affect our results of operations or cash flows. With the decline of call volume, revenues in our Computer Systems segment are increasingly dependent on our customers’ acceptance and adoption of our OnDemand product. We rely extensively on our information technology systems and are vulnerable to damage and interruption. We rely on our information technology systems and infrastructure to process transactions, summarize results, and manage our business, including maintaining client information. Failure to protect and maintain our data and information technology systems may cause outages or security breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our results of operations or cash flows, as well as our business reputation. Our business may be negatively affected if we are not able to keep pace with rapid changes in technology. We must obtain or produce products and systems, principally in the information technology environment, to satisfy customer requirements and to remain competitive. To do so, we must make significant investments to deploy, maintain and upgrade advanced computer software and purchase substantial amounts of computer equipment. These investments require significant capital, entail large technological obsolescence risk and require specialized talent to operate. There can be no assurance that in the future we will be able to foresee technological changes and to identify, develop and commercialize innovative and competitive products, systems and services in a timely and cost effective manner and to achieve customer acceptance of our products, systems and services in markets characterized by rapidly changing technology and frequent new product introductions. The loss of any key customers could adversely impact our business. Although we had no customer that represented over 10% of revenues in fiscal years 2012 or 2013, reductions, delays or cancellation of contracts with any of our key customers or the loss of one or more key customers could materially reduce our revenue and operating income. There is no assurance that our current customers will continue to do business with us or that contracts with existing customers will continue at current or historical levels. We are dependent upon the quality of our personnel. Our operations are dependent on the continued efforts of our senior management. In addition, we are dependent on the performance and productivity of our local managers and field personnel. Our ability to attract and retain business is significantly affected by local relationships and the quality of service rendered. The loss of high quality personnel and members of management with significant experience in our industry without replacement by similar quality and experience may cause a significant disruption to our business. Moreover, the loss of key local managers and field personnel could jeopardize existing client relationships with businesses that use our services based upon relationships with those managers and field personnel. 12 Table of Contents We are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain technologically qualified personnel. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain technologically qualified personnel, particularly for temporary assignments to customers of our Staffing Services segment, as well as in the areas of research and development, implementation and upgrading of internal systems. The availability of such personnel is dependent upon a number of economic and demographic conditions. We may in the future find it difficult or more costly to hire such personnel in the face of competition from other companies. In addition variations in the rate of unemployment and higher wages sought by contingent workers in certain technical fields that continue to experience labor shortages could affect our ability to meet our customers’ demands in these fields and adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Legal Compliance and Litigation We are subject to employment–related and other claims and losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Staffing Services segment employs or engages individuals on a contingent basis and places them in a customer’s workplace. Our ability to control the customer’s workplace is limited, and we risk incurring liability to our employees for injury (which can result in increased workers’ compensation costs) or other harm that they suffer at the customer’s workplace. In addition we may face claims related to violations of wage and hour regulations, discrimination, harassment, the employment of undocumented or unlicensed personnel; misconduct, negligence or professional malpractice by our employees, and claims relating to the misclassification of independent contractors, among others. Additionally, we risk liability to our customers for the actions or inactions of our employees, including those individuals employed on a contingent basis, that may result in harm to our customers. Such actions may be the result of negligence or misconduct on the part of our employees, damage to customer facilities due to negligence, criminal activity and other similar claims. In some cases, we must indemnify our customers for certain acts of our employees, and certain customers have negotiated increases in the scope of such indemnification agreements. We also may incur fines, penalties and losses that are not covered by insurance or negative publicity with respect to these matters. There can be no assurance that the policies and procedures we have in place will be effective or that we will not experience losses as a result of these risks. Improper disclosure of sensitive or confidential employee or client data, including personal data, could result in liability and harm our reputation. Our business involves the use, storage and transmission of information about our full-time and contingent employees, clients and other individuals. This information may contain sensitive or confidential employee and client data, including personal data. Additionally, our employees may have access or exposure to customer data and systems, the misuse of which could result in legal liability. We and our third party service providers have established policies and procedures to help protect the security and privacy of this information. It is possible that our security controls over sensitive or confidential data and other practices we and our third party service providers follow may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of such information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws that protect sensitive or personal data and confidential information, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace. The possession and use of personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations. 13 Table of Contents New and increased government regulation, employment costs or taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, especially for our contingent staffing business. Certain of our businesses are subject to licensing and regulation in some states and most foreign jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to comply with these requirements, or that the cost of compliance will not become material. Additionally, the jurisdictions in which we do or intend to do business may: • create new or additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of services that we currently provide; • impose new or additional employment costs that we may not be able to be pass on to customers or that could cause customers to reduce their use of our services, especially in our Staffing Services segment, which could adversely impact our business; • require us to obtain additional licenses; or • increase taxes (especially payroll and other employment-related taxes) or enact new or different taxes payable by the providers or users of services such as those offered by us, thereby increasing our costs, some of which we may not be able to pass on to customers or that could cause customers to reduce their use of our services especially in our Staffing Services segment, which could adversely impact our results of operations or cash flows. In some of our foreign markets, new and proposed regulatory activity is imposing additional requirements and costs, and could cause changes in customers’ attitudes regarding the use of outsourcing and contingent personnel in general, which could have an adverse effect on our contingent staffing business. Insurance has limits and exclusions and we retain risk. Our insurance policies for various exposures including, but not limited to, general liability, auto liability, workers compensation and employer’s liability, directors’ and officers’ insurance, professional liability, employment practices, loss to real and personal property, business interruption, fiduciary and other management liability, are limited and the losses that we face may be not be covered, may be subject to high deductibles or may exceed the limits purchased. Costs related to litigation could adversely impact our financial condition We are involved in pending and threatened legal proceedings from time to time, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. It is uncertain at what point any of these or new matters may affect us, and there can be no assurance that our financial resources are sufficient to cover these matters in their entirety or any one of these matters. Therefore, there can be no assurance that these matters will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange and is not listed on any other national securities exchange which may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. Trading in the Company’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) was suspended on January 26, 2011. The Company’s common stock was delisted from the NYSE on May 30, 2011. On January 27, 2011, the Company’s common stock began trading under the symbol “VISI” through the facilities of the OTC Markets Group, Inc. The trading of our common stock on the OTC marketplace rather than the NYSE may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to relist our common stock on a national securities exchange or that the stock will continue being traded on the OTC marketplace. 14 Table of Contents Securities traded in the over-the-counter market generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange due to factors such as the reduced number of investors that will consider investing in the securities, the reduced number of market makers in the securities, and the reduced number of securities analysts that follow such securities. As a result, holders of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. The lack of liquidity in our common stock may also make it difficult for us to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future. Our stock price could be volatile and, as a result, investors may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price they paid for them. Our stock price has in the past, and could in the future, fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including the increased volatility of the over-the-counter markets and: • our failure to meet the expectations of the investment community or our estimates of our future results of operations; • industry trends and the business success of our customers; • loss of one or more key customers; • strategic moves by our competitors, such as product or service announcements or acquisitions; • regulatory developments; • litigation; • general economic conditions; and • other domestic and international macroeconomic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market has experienced, and may in the future experience, volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our principal shareholders own a significant percentage of our common stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over Volt. Their interests may differ from those of other shareholders. As of December 31, 2013, our principal shareholders, who are related family members, controlled approximately 43% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these shareholders, if they vote in the same manner, would effectively be able to control the composition of our board of directors and many other matters requiring shareholder approval and would continue to have significant influence over our affairs, and the interests of our principal shareholders may not align with those of our other shareholders. Furthermore, the provisions of the New York Business Corporation Law, to which we are subject, requires the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of all of our outstanding shares entitled to vote in order to adopt a plan of merger or consolidation between us and another entity and to approve a sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all of our assets not made in our usual and regular course of business. Accordingly, our principal shareholders, acting together, could prevent the approval of such transactions even if such transactions are in the best interests of our other shareholders. New York law and our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain provisions that could make the takeover of Volt more difficult. Certain provisions of New York law and our articles of incorporation and by-laws could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring Volt, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws include: • providing for a classified board of directors with directors having staggered, two-year terms; • permitting removal of directors only for cause; • providing that vacancies on the board of directors will be filled by the remaining directors then in office; and • requiring advance notice for shareholder proposals and director nominees. 15 Table of Contents In addition to the voting power of our principal shareholders discussed above, our board of directors could choose not to negotiate with a potential acquirer that it did not believe was in our strategic interests. If an acquirer is discouraged from offering to acquire Volt or prevented from successfully completing an acquisition by these or other measures, our shareholders could lose the opportunity to sell their shares at a more favorable price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 