Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in shares of the Company’s common stock involves certain risks. The following risks and other information in this report or incorporated in this report by reference, including the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” should be carefully considered in the evaluation of the Company before investing in shares of its common stock. These risks may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Many of these risks are out of the Company’s direct control, though efforts are made to manage those risks while optimizing financial results. These risks are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect the Company’s business and operation. This report is qualified in its entirety by all these risk factors. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our Profitability is Dependent on Our Banking Activities. Because the Company is a bank holding company, its profitability is directly attributable to the success of the Bank. The Company’s banking activities compete with other banking institutions on the basis of service, convenience and price. Due in part to both regulatory changes and consumer demands, banks have experienced increased competition from other entities offering similar products and services. The Company relies on the profitability of the Bank and dividends received from the Bank for payment of its operating expenses, satisfaction of its obligations and payment of dividends. (See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements contained in the Company’s 2011 Annual Report incorporated into Item 8, Part II of this report for a discussion of dividend restrictions.) As is the case with other similarly situated financial institutions, the profitability of the Bank, and therefore the Company, will be subject to the fluctuating cost and availability of funds, changes in the prime lending rate and other interest rates, changes in economic conditions in general and, because of the location of its banking offices, changes in economic conditions in the Southeastern and South Central United States in particular. We Depend on Key Personnel for Our Success. The Company’s operating results and ability to adequately manage its growth and minimize loan and lease losses are highly dependent on the services, managerial abilities and performance of its current executive officers and other key personnel. The Company has an experienced management team that the board of directors believes is capable of managing and growing the Company. The Company does not have employment contracts with its executive officers and key personnel. Losses of or changes in its current executive officers or other key personnel and their responsibilities may disrupt the Company’s business and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, the Company’s ability to retain its current executive officers and other key personnel may be further impacted by existing and proposed legislation and regulations affecting the financial services industry. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in retaining its current executive officers or other key personnel. Our Operations are Significantly Affected by Interest Rate Levels. The Company’s profitability is dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income earned on loans, including loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements, leases and investment securities and interest expense paid on deposits, other borrowings and subordinated debentures. The Company is affected by changes in general interest rate levels and changes in the differential between short-term and long-term interest rates, both of which are beyond its control. Interest rate risk can result from mismatches between the dollar amount of repricing or maturing assets and liabilities, as well as from mismatches in the timing and rate at which assets and liabilities reprice. Although the Company has implemented procedures it believes will reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on its results of operations, these procedures may not always be successful. In addition, any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 23 Table of Contents The Fiscal and Monetary Policies of the Federal Government and its Agencies Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Earnings. The FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which may affect net interest income and net interest margin. Changes in the supply of money and credit can also materially decrease the value of financial assets held by the Company, such as debt securities. The FRB’s policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans and leases. Changes in such policies are beyond the Company’s control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on the Company’s activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. Our Business Depends on the Condition of the Local and Regional Economies Where We Operate. A majority of the Company’s business is located in Arkansas, Texas and, to a lesser extent, Georgia and other southeastern states. As a result the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be significantly impacted by changes in the Arkansas, Texas and Georgia economies as well as the economies of other southeastern states. Further slowdown in economic activity, deterioration in housing markets or increases in unemployment and under-employment in these areas may have a significant and disproportionate impact on consumer and business confidence and the demand for the Company’s products and services, result in an increase in non-payment of loans and leases and a decrease in collateral value, and significantly impact the Company’s deposit funding sources. Any of these events could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Our Business May Suffer if There are Significant Declines in the Value of Real Estate. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. There continues to be a lack of sustained improvement in economic activity and housing markets and elevated levels of unemployment and under-employment in many of the Company’s markets, resulting in depressed prices and excess inventories of houses and other properties to be sold in these markets. If the value of the real estate serving as collateral for the Company’s loan and lease portfolio were to decline materially, a significant part of its loan portfolio could become under-collateralized. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled during a time when market conditions are declining or have declined, the Company may not be able to realize the value of security anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the Company’s provision for loan and lease losses and its financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Most of the Company’s foreclosed assets are comprised of real estate properties. The Company carries these properties at their estimated fair values less estimated selling costs. While the Company believes the carrying values for such assets are reasonable and appropriately reflect current market conditions, there can be no assurance that the amount of proceeds realized upon disposition of foreclosed assets, will approximate the carrying value of such assets. If the proceeds are less than the carrying value of foreclosed assets, the Company will record a loss on the disposition of such assets, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We are Subject to Environmental Liability Risks Associated With Lending Activities. A significant portion of the Company’s loan and lease portfolio is secured by real property. In the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to real properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Company’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company’s exposure to environmental liability. The Company has policies and procedures that require either formal or informal evaluation of environmental risks and liabilities on real property before originating any loan or foreclosure action, except for (i) loans originated for sale in the secondary market secured by 1-4 family residential properties and (ii) certain loans where the real estate collateral is second lien collateral. These policies, procedures and evaluations may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 24 Table of Contents If We Do Not Properly Manage Our Credit Risk, Our Business Could Be Seriously Harmed. There are substantial risks inherent in making any loan or lease, including, but not limited to – • risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions; • risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers; • risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral; and • the risk of non-payment of loans and leases. Although the Company attempts to minimize its credit risk through prudent loan and lease underwriting procedures and by monitoring concentrations of its loans and leases, there can be no assurance that these underwriting and monitoring procedures will reduce these risks. Moreover, as the Company expands into new markets, credit administration and loan and lease underwriting policies and procedures may need to be adapted to local conditions. The inability of the Company to properly manage its credit risk or appropriately adapt its credit administration and loan and lease underwriting policies and procedures to local market conditions or changing economic circumstances could have an adverse impact on its provision for loan and lease losses and its financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We Make and Hold in Our Loan and Lease Portfolio a Significant Number of Construction/Land Development, Non-Farm/Non-Residential and Other Real Estate Loans. The Company’s loan and lease portfolio is comprised of a significant amount of real estate loans, including a large number of construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential loans. Excluding loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements, the Company’s real estate loans comprised 88.1% of its total loans and leases at December 31, 2011. In addition, excluding loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements, the Company’s construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential loans, which are a subset of its real estate loans, comprised 25.4% and 37.6%, respectively, of the Company’s total loan and lease portfolio at December 31, 2011. Real estate loans, including construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential loans, pose different risks than do other types of loan and lease categories. The Company believes it has established appropriate underwriting procedures for its real estate loans, including construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential loans, and has established appropriate allowances to cover the credit risk associated with such loans. However, there can be no assurance that such underwriting procedures are, or will continue to be, appropriate or that losses on real estate loans, including construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential loans, will not require additions to its allowance for loan and lease losses, and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We Could Experience Deficiencies in Our Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses. The Company maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses, established through a provision for possible loan and lease losses charged to expense, that represents the Company’s best estimate of probable losses inherent in the existing loan and lease portfolio. Although the Company believes that it maintains its allowance for loan and lease losses at a level adequate to absorb losses in its loan and lease portfolio, estimates of loan and lease losses are subjective and their accuracy may depend on the outcome of future events. Experience in the banking industry indicates that some portion of the Company’s loans and leases may only be partially repaid or may never be repaid at all. Loan and lease losses occur for many reasons beyond the control of the Company. Accordingly, the Company may be required to make significant and unanticipated increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses during future periods which could materially affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, bank regulatory authorities, as an integral part of their supervisory functions, periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan and lease losses. These regulatory authorities may require adjustments to the allowance for loan and lease losses or may require recognition of additional loan and lease losses or charge-offs based upon their judgment. Any increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses or charge-offs required by bank regulatory authorities could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. (The remainder of this page intentionally left blank) 25 Table of Contents The Performance of Our Investment Securities Portfolio is Subject to Fluctuation Due to Changes in Interest Rates and Market Conditions, Including Credit Deterioration of the Issuers of Individual Securities. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of the Company’s investment securities. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in the Company’s portfolio. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors including monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political issues, and other factors beyond the Company’s control. Fluctuations in interest rates can materially affect both the returns on and market value of the Company’s investment securities. Additionally, actual investment income and cash flows from investment securities that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed securities and callable securities, may materially differ from those anticipated at the time of investment or subsequently as a result of changes in interest rates and market conditions. The Company’s investment securities portfolio consists of a number of securities whose trading markets are “not active.” As a result, management has had to develop internal models or other methodologies for pricing these securities that include various estimates and assumptions. There can be no assurance that the Company could sell these investment securities at the price derived by the internal model or methodology, or that it could sell these investment securities at all, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operation or liquidity. Many state and local governments and other political subdivisions have experienced deterioration of financial condition in recent years due to declining tax revenues, increased demand for services and various other factors. As a result many bonds issued by state and local governments and other political subdivisions have experienced, and are continuing to experience, pricing pressure. To the extent the Company has any such securities in its portfolio from issuers who have experienced a deterioration of financial condition, or who may experience future deterioration of financial condition, the value of such securities may decline and could result in an other-than-temporary impairment charge, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our Recent Results May Not Be Indicative of Our Future Results. The Company may not be able to grow its business at the same rate of growth achieved in recent years or even grow its business at all. Additionally, in the future the Company may not have the benefit of several factors that have been favorable to the Company’s business in past years, such as an interest rate environment where changes in rates occur at a relatively orderly and modest pace, the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities, including additional FDIC-assisted acquisitions, or otherwise to capitalize on opportunities presented by economic turbulence, or other factors and conditions. Numerous factors, such as weakening or deteriorating economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition may impede or restrict the Company’s ability to expand its market presence and could adversely impact its future operating results. Our FDIC Deposit Insurance Premiums May Increase. The FDIC has significantly increased premiums charged to all financial institutions for FDIC deposit insurance protection during recent years and such premiums may continue to increase in future years. The Company has historically paid at or near the lowest applicable premium rate under the FDIC’s deposit insurance premium rate structure due to the Company’s sound financial position. However, should bank failures continue to increase, deposit insurance premiums may escalate further and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. To Successfully Implement Our Growth and De Novo Branching Strategy, We Must Expand Our Operations in Both New and Existing Markets. The Company intends to continue the expansion and development of its business by pursuing its growth and de novo branching strategy. Accordingly, the Company’s growth prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by banking companies pursuing growth strategies. In order to successfully execute its growth strategy, the Company must, among other things: • identify and expand into suitable markets; • obtain regulatory and other approvals; • identify and acquire suitable sites for new banking offices; • attract and retain qualified bank management and staff; 26 Table of Contents • build a substantial customer base; • maintain credit quality; • attract sufficient deposits to fund anticipated loan and lease growth; and • maintain adequate common equity and regulatory capital. In addition to the foregoing factors, there are considerable costs involved in opening banking offices, and such new offices generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for some time. Therefore, any new banking offices the Company opens can be expected to negatively affect its operating results until those offices reach a size at which they become profitable. The Company could also experience an increase in expenses if it encounters delays in opening any new banking offices. Moreover, the Company cannot give any assurances that any new banking offices it opens will be successful, even after they have become established. If the Company does not manage its growth effectively, the Company’s business, future prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. The Company May Engage in Additional FDIC-Assisted Acquisitions, Which Could Present Additional Risks To Its Business. The Company has been and may be presented with additional opportunities to acquire the assets and assume liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted acquisitions. These acquisitions involve risks similar to acquiring existing banks even though the FDIC might provide assistance to mitigate certain risks such as sharing in loan losses and losses on other covered assets and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution. However, because these acquisitions are for failed banks and are structured in a manner that does not allow the Company the time normally associated with preparing for and evaluating an acquisition (including preparing for integration of an acquired institution), the Company may face additional risks when it engages in FDIC-assisted acquisitions. The assets that the Company acquires in such an acquisition are generally more troubled than in a typical acquisition. The deposits that the Company assumes are generally higher priced than in a typical acquisition and therefore subject to higher rates of attrition. Integration of operations may be more difficult in an FDIC-assisted acquisition than in a typical acquisition since key staff may have departed. Any inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to achieve its business objectives and maintain its market value and profitability. The FDIC’s initial approach to loss sharing provided for indemnification by the FDIC of the acquiring institution against loss equal to 80% of losses with respect to covered assets of the acquired institution up to a stated threshold and 95% of losses incurred by the acquiring institution with respect to such covered assets above the stated threshold. The FDIC modified its policy for transactions occurring after March 31, 2010 where the FDIC provides loss share assistance, and the indemnification in such transactions covers only 80% of all losses with respect to covered assets and no longer covers 95% of such losses above a stated threshold. In August 2010, the FDIC further modified its policy for loss share assistance whereby the FDIC, depending on the size of the failing institution, may (i) establish up to three separate tranches for both single family residential real estate loans and related foreclosed assets and for non-single family residential real estate loans and related foreclosed assets and (ii) provides loss share assistance at varying levels for each of the tranches. In addition, certain consumer loans and certain government-guaranteed loans are not covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements. These modifications of the indemnification protection increase the risk of loss to acquiring institutions in FDIC-assisted acquisitions and could result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. There can be no assurance that the FDIC will not alter other terms of the loss share agreements in any future transactions, which could further increase the risks to the Company in the event it engages in any future FDIC-assisted acquisitions. Moreover, if the Company seeks to participate in additional FDIC-assisted acquisitions, the Company can only participate in the bid process if it receives approval of bank regulators. There can be no assurance that the Company will be allowed to participate in the bid process, or what the terms of any such transaction might be or whether the Company would be successful in acquiring any bank or targeted assets. The Company may be required to raise additional capital as a condition to, or as a result of, participation in certain FDIC-assisted acquisitions. Any such transactions and related issuances of stock may have a dilutive effect on earnings per common share and share ownership. Furthermore, to the extent the Company is allowed to, and chooses to, participate in future FDIC-assisted acquisitions, the Company may face competition from other financial institutions. To the extent that other competitors 27 Table of Contents participate, the Company’s ability to make acquisitions on favorable terms may be adversely affected. Additionally, if the Company acquires bank assets and operations through future FDIC-assisted acquisitions, the Company could encounter difficulties in achieving profitability of those operations. Failure to Comply with the Terms of Loss Sharing Arrangements with the FDIC May Result in Significant Losses. Any failure to comply with the terms of any loss share agreements the Bank has with the FDIC, or to properly service the loans and foreclosed assets covered by loss share agreements, may cause individual loans, large pools of loans or other covered assets to lose eligibility for reimbursement to the Bank from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Systems Conversions of Acquired Banks in FDIC-Assisted Acquisitions May Be Difficult. Subsequent to the acquisitions of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions, the various operating systems must be converted, in most cases, to the Bank’s existing operating systems. These systems conversions require personnel with unique and specialized skills and require a significant amount of planning, coordination and effort of internal resources and third-party vendors. Any inability of the Company to hire or retain individuals with the appropriate skills or to effectively plan, coordinate and manage these systems conversions or any failure to effectively implement these systems conversions could have serious negative customer impact, exposing the Company and the Bank to reputational risk and adversely impacting the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If We Engage in Negotiated Transactions, There May Be Special Risks Associated with Integration of Operations, as Well as Undiscovered Risks or Losses with Targeted Banks, Any of Which Could Have a Negative Impact Upon Our Operating Results or Financial Condition. In addition to the Company’s historical growth strategy through de novo branching and FDIC-assisted acquisitions, the Company may in the future pursue negotiated transactions with publicly owned or privately held banking institutions. Any future negotiated acquisitions the Company might make will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include, among other things: • credit risk associated with the acquired bank’s loans and leases and investments; • difficulty of integrating operations and personnel; and • potential disruption of the Company’s on going business. The Company expects that competition for suitable acquisition candidates may be significant in the negotiated acqusition area as well as the FDIC-assisted acquisitions. The Company may compete with other banks or financial service companies with similar acquisition strategies, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources. The Company cannot give any assurance that it will be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable acquisition targets on acceptable terms and conditions. In most cases, negotiated acquisitions include the acquisition of all the target bank’s assets and liabilities, including its loan and lease portfolio. While the Company expects to be able to conduct more extensive due diligence investigations regarding any targeted bank in a negotiated transaction than in an FDIC-assisted transaction, there may be instances after closing of any negotiated transaction when, under normal operating procedures, the Company may find that there may be additional losses or undisclosed liabilities with respect to the assets and liabilities of the target bank, and, with respect to its loan and lease portfolio, than was anticipated prior to the acquisition. For example, the ability of a borrower or lessee to repay a loan or lease may have become impaired or the quality of the value of the collateral securing the loan or lease may fall below the Company’s collateral standards, or the allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate. One or more of these and other factors affecting asset values or loan and lease loss experience might cause the Company to have additional losses or liabilities, additional charge-offs, or increases in allowances for loan and lease losses which could have a negative impact upon the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, as contrasted with FDIC-assisted acquisitions, the Company may not have adequate remedies or recourse to cover losses associated with negotiated acquisitions. 28 Table of Contents Volatility and Disruptions in the Functioning of the Financial Markets and Related Liquidity Issues Could Continue or Worsen. The U.S. and global financial markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption in recent years. The impact of the recent financial crisis, together with public concerns regarding the strength of financial institutions, has led to both significant distress in financial markets and issues relating to liquidity among financial institutions. As a result of concerns about the stability of the financial markets generally, the constriction in credit, the lack of public confidence in the financial sector, and the generally weak economic conditions, the Company can give no assurance that such circumstances will not have an adverse effect, which could be material, on its financial condition, results of operation and liquidity. We Face Strong Competition in Our Markets. Competition in many of the Company’s banking markets is intense. The Company competes with other financial and bank holding companies, state and national commercial banks, savings and loan associations, consumer finance companies, credit unions, securities brokerages, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, leasing companies, money market mutual funds, asset-based non-bank lenders and other financial institutions and intermediaries, as well as non-financial institutions offering payroll, debit card and other services. Many of these competitors have an advantage over the Company through substantially greater financial resources, lending limits and larger distribution networks, and are able to offer a broader range of products and services. Other competitors, many of which are smaller than the Company, are privately held and thus benefit from greater flexibility in adopting or modifying growth or operational strategies than the Company. If the Company fails to compete effectively for deposit, loan, lease and other banking customers in the Company’s markets, the Company could lose substantial market share, suffer a slower growth rate or no growth and its financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. The Soundness of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect Us. The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and financial stability of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to various counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial and correspondent banks, and others. As a result, defaults by, or rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, may lead to further market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by such other institutions. Such occurrences could expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We Depend on the Accuracy and Completeness of Information About Customers. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into certain transactions, the Company relies on information furnished by or on behalf of customers, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Reputational Risk and Social Factors May Impact Our Results. The Company’s ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon consumer and other external perceptions of its business practices and/or its financial health. Adverse perceptions regarding the Company’s business practices and/or its financial health could damage its reputation, leading to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. Adverse developments with respect to the consumer or other external perceptions regarding the practices of competitors, or the industry as a whole, may also adversely impact the Company’s reputation. In addition, adverse reputational impacts on third parties with whom the Company has important relationships may also adversely impact the Company’s reputation. Adverse impacts on the Company’s reputation, or the reputation of the industry, may also result in greater regulatory and/or legislative scrutiny, which may lead to laws or regulations that may change or constrain the manner in which the Company engages with its customers and the products it offers. Adverse reputational impacts or events may also increase litigation risk. Any of these factors could have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to achieve its business objectives and/or its results of operations. 29 Table of Contents We May Be Subject to Claims and Litigation Asserting Lender Liability. From time to time, and particularly during periods of economic stress, customers, including real estate developers, may make claims or otherwise take legal action pertaining to the Company’s performance of its responsibilities. These claims are often referred to as “lender liability” claims and are sometimes brought in an effort to produce or increase leverage against the Company in workout negotiations or debt collection proceedings. Lender liability claims frequently assert one or more of the following: breach of fiduciary duties, fraud, economic duress, breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and similar claims. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Company’s performance of its responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. We May Be Subject to General Claims and Litigation Liability. In the ordinary course of business, the Company may be named as defendant or may otherwise face claims or legal action, including class actions, from a variety of sources including, among others, customers; vendors; regulatory agencies; federal, state or local governments; or employees. Such claims or legal action may include, among others, breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, discrimination, harassment, fraud and infringement of patents, copyrights or trademarks. Such claims or legal action may also make demands for substantial monetary damages and require substantial amounts of time and resources to defend. Should the Company be named as defendant or otherwise face such claims or legal actions, there can be no assurance that the Company would be successful in its defense against such actions, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Additional information related to litigation is included in Note 24 to the consolidated financial standards and in Item 3, Part 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Internal Operations are Subject to a Number of Risks. The Company’s internal operations are subject to certain risks, including, but not limited to, information system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts, data piracy or natural disasters. The Company maintains a system of internal controls and security to mitigate the risks of many of these occurrences and maintains insurance coverage for certain risks. However, should an event occur that is not prevented or detected by the Company’s internal controls, and is uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The future success of the Company will depend, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional operational efficiencies and greater privacy and security protection for customers and their personnel information. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The computer systems and network infrastructure in use by the Company could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. The Company’s operations are dependent upon the ability to protect its computer equipment against damage from fire, severe storm, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure of the Company’s computer systems or network infrastructure that causes an interruption in operations could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, the Company’s operations are dependent upon its ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from physical break-ins, security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by Internet users or other users. Computer break-ins and other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the Company’s computer systems and network, which may result in significant liability to the Company, as well as deter potential customers. Although the Company, with the help of third-party service providers, intends to continue to actively monitor and, where necessary, implement improved security technology and develop 30 Table of Contents additional operational procedures to prevent damage or unauthorized access to its computer systems and network, there can be no assurance that these security measures or operational procedures will be successful. In addition, new developments or advances in computer capabilities or new discoveries in the field of cryptography could enable hackers to compromise or breach the security measures used by the Company to protect customer data. The Company’s failure to maintain adequate security over its customers’ personal and transactional information could expose the Company or the Bank to reputational risk and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We Rely on Certain External Vendors. The Company is reliant upon certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain its day-to-day operations. Accordingly, the Company’s operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or the service level agreements. The Company maintains a system of policies and procedures designed to monitor vendor risks including, among other things, (i) changes in the vendor’s organizational structure, (ii) changes in the vendor’s financial condition and (iii) changes in the vendor’s support for existing products and services. While the Company believes these policies and procedures help to mitigate risk, the failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or the service level agreements could be disruptive to the Company’s operations, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and its financial condition and results of operations. We May Need to Raise Additional Capital in the Future to Continue to Grow, But That Capital May Not Be Available When Needed. Federal and state bank regulators require the Company and the Bank to maintain adequate levels of capital to support operations. On December 31, 2011, the Company’s and the Bank’s regulatory capital ratios were at “well-capitalized” levels under bank regulatory guidelines. However, the Company’s business strategy calls for the Company to continue to grow in its existing banking markets (internally and through opening additional offices) and to expand into new markets as appropriate opportunities arise. Growth in assets resulting from internal expansion and new banking offices at rates in excess of the rate at which the Company’s capital is increased through retained earnings will reduce both the Company’s and the Bank’s capital ratios unless the Company and the Bank continue to increase capital. If the Company’s or the Bank’s capital ratios fell below “well-capitalized” levels, the FDIC deposit insurance assessment rate would increase until capital is restored and maintained at a “well-capitalized” level. Additionally, should the Company’s or Bank’s capital ratios fall below “well-capitalized” levels, certain funding sources could become more costly or could cease to be available to the Company until such time as capital is restored and maintained at a “well-capitalized” level. A higher assessment rate resulting in an increase in FDIC deposit insurance assessments, increased cost of funding or loss of funding sources could have an adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If, in the future, the Company needs to increase its capital to fund additional growth or satisfy regulatory requirements, its ability to raise that additional capital will depend on the Company’s financial performance and on conditions at that time in the capital markets that are outside the Company’s control. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to raise additional capital on terms favorable to it or at all. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, the Company’s ability to expand its operations through internal growth or to continue operations could be impaired. We May Not Be Able to Meet the Cash Flow Requirements of Our Depositors or the Cash Needs for Expansion and Other Corporate Activities. Liquidity represents an institution’s ability to provide funds to satisfy demands from depositors, borrowers and other creditors by either converting assets into cash or accessing new or existing sources of incremental funds. Liquidity risk arises from the possibility the Company may be unable to satisfy current or future funding requirements and needs. The ALCO and Investments Committee (“ALCO”), which reports to the board of directors, has primary responsibility for oversight of the Company’s liquidity, funds management, asset/liability (interest rate risk) position and investment portfolio functions. The objective of managing liquidity risk is to ensure the cash flow requirements resulting from depositor, borrower and other creditor demands are met, as well as operating cash needs, of the Company, and the cost of funding 31 Table of Contents such requirements and needs is reasonable. The Company maintains a liquidity risk management policy and a contingency funding plan that include policies and procedures for managing liquidity risk. Generally the Company relies on deposits, loan and lease and covered loan repayments, and repayments of its investment securities as its primary sources of funds. The principal deposit sources utilized by the Company include consumer, commercial and public funds customers in the Company’s markets. The Company has used these funds, together with wholesale deposit sources such as brokered deposits, along with FHLB advances, FRB borrowings, federal funds purchased and other sources of short-term borrowings, to make loans and leases, acquire investment securities and other assets and to fund continuing operations. Deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments, general economic and market conditions and other factors. Loan and lease repayments are a relatively stable source of funds but are subject to the borrowers’ and lessees’ ability to repay the loans and leases, which can be adversely affected by a number of factors including changes in general economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups or specific businesses, declines in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and other factors. Furthermore, loans and leases generally are not readily convertible to cash. Accordingly, the Company may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet loan, lease and deposit withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such secondary sources include FHLB advances, secured and unsecured federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks and FRB borrowings. At December 31, 2011 the Company had substantial unused borrowing availability. This availability was primarily comprised of the following four options: (i) $647 million of available blanket borrowing capacity with the FHLB, (ii) $93 million of investment securities available to pledge for federal funds or other borrowings, (iii) $123 million of available unsecured federal funds borrowing lines and (4) up to $77 million of available borrowing capacity from borrowing programs of the FRB. The Company anticipates it will continue to rely primarily on deposits, loan and lease and covered loan repayments, and repayments of its investment securities to provide liquidity. Additionally, where necessary, the sources of borrowed funds described above will be used to augment the Company’s primary funding sources. If we were unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might be unable to meet customers’ or creditors’ needs, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Natural Disasters May Adversely Affect Us. The Company’s operations and customer base are located in markets where natural disasters, including tornadoes, severe storms, fires, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes often occur. Such natural disasters could significantly impact the local population and economies and the Company’s business, and could pose physical risks to the Company’s properties. Although the Company’s business is geographically dispersed throughout Arkansas, Texas and the southeastern United States, a significant natural disaster in or near one or more of the Company’s markets could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Risk of Pandemic. In recent years the outbreak of a number of diseases including Avian Bird Flu, H1N1, and various other “super bugs” have increased the risk of a pandemic. Should a pandemic occur in one or more of the markets where the Company’s operations are located, the Company could experience a loss of business, a shortage of employees, or various other adverse effects which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and its financial condition and results of operations. (The remainder of this page intentionally left blank) 32 Table of Contents RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR INDUSTRY We are Subject to Extensive Government Regulation That Limits or Restricts Our Activities and Could Adversely Impact Our Operations. The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, interest rates charged for loans and leases, interest rates paid on deposits, locations of banking offices and various other activities and aspects of the Company’s and Bank’s operations. The Company and the Bank are also subject to capital guidelines established by regulators which require maintenance of adequate capital. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC’s DIF rather than shareholders. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations issued by the SEC and NASDAQ, as well as numerous other regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act and related amendments, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing the Company’s external audit and maintaining its internal controls. Government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, and increases the cost to the Company of complying with regulatory requirements. Additionally, the failure to comply with these various rules and regulations could subject the Company or the Bank to monetary penalties or sanctions or otherwise expose the Company or Bank to reputational risk and could adversely affect its results of operations. Newly Enacted and Proposed Legislation and Regulations May Affect Our Operations and Growth. To address the continuing turbulence in the U.S. economy and the banking and financial markets, the U.S. government has recently enacted a series of laws, regulations, guidelines and programs, many of which are discussed in the Supervision and Regulation section of this report. Because of the recency and speed with which these and other regulatory measures have been enacted, the Company and the Bank are continuing to assess the impact of such regulatory measures on their business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, in the routine course of regulatory oversight, proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of, and federal deposit insurance premiums paid by, banks and other financial institutions and companies that control financial institutions are frequently raised in the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and before bank regulatory authorities. The likelihood of significant changes in laws and regulations in the future and the impact that such changes might have on the Company or the Bank are impossible to determine. Similarly, proposals to change the accounting and financial reporting requirements applicable to banks and other depository institutions are frequently raised by the SEC, the federal banking agencies, the Internal Revenue Service and other authorities. Further, federal intervention in financial markets and the commensurate impact on financial institutions may adversely affect the Company’s or the Bank’s rights under contracts with such other institutions and the way in which the Company conducts business in certain markets. The likelihood and impact of any future changes in these accounting and financial reporting requirements and the impact these changes might have on the Company or the Bank are also impossible to determine at this time. There Can Be No Assurance that Enacted Legislation or Any Proposed Federal Programs Will Stabilize the U.S. Financial System and Such Legislation and Programs May Adversely Affect Us. Several federal acts, programs and guidelines have been either signed into law or promulgated by Congress, the Treasury or the FDIC in recent years and additional laws, regulations, programs and guidance are likely to continue to be enacted in the future. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that these acts, regulations, programs and guidelines or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The lack of stable financial markets or a worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and access to credit or the trading price of its common stock. 33 Table of Contents The Earnings of Financial Services Companies are Significantly Affected by General Business and Economic Conditions. The Company’s operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which the Company operates, all of which are beyond its control. Deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan and lease delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan and lease collateral values and a decrease in demand for products and services, among other things, any of which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Consumers May Decide Not to Use Local Banks to Complete their Financial Transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete, through alternative methods, financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as local bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds with an Internet-only bank, or with virtually any bank in the country through on-line banking. Consumers can also complete transactions such as purchasing goods and services, paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower-cost deposits as a source of funds could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR COMMON STOCK Our Common Stock Price is Affected by a Variety of Factors, Many of Which are Outside Our Control. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for investors to resell shares of the Company’s common stock at times and prices they find attractive. The Company’s common stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • recommendations or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors; • new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors; and • changes in governmental regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events such as economic slowdowns, interest rate changes, credit loss trends and various other factors and events could adversely impact the price of the Company’s common stock. We Cannot Guarantee That We Will Pay Dividends to Common Shareholders in the Future. The Company’s principal business operations are conducted through the Bank. Cash available to pay dividends to the Company’s common shareholders is derived primarily, if not entirely, from dividends paid by the Bank. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends, as well as the Company’s ability to pay dividends to its common shareholders, will continue to be subject to and limited by the results of operations of the Bank and by certain legal and regulatory restrictions. Further, any lenders making loans to the Company or Bank may impose financial covenants that may be more restrictive than regulatory requirements with respect to the Company’s payment of dividends to common shareholders. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to pay dividends to its common shareholders in the future. 34 Table of Contents Certain State and/or Federal Laws May Deter Potential Acquirors and May Depress Our Stock Price. Certain provisions of federal and state laws may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. Under certain federal and state laws, a person, entity, or group must give notice to applicable regulatory authorities before acquiring a significant amount, as defined by such laws, of the outstanding voting stock of a bank holding company, including the Company’s common shares. Regulatory authorities review the potential acquisition to determine if it will result in a change of control. The applicable regulatory authorities will then act on the notice, taking into account the resources of the potential acquiror, the potential antitrust effects of the proposed acquisition and numerous other factors. As a result, these statutory provisions may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider to be in such shareholder’s best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by shareholders. The Holders of Our Subordinated Debentures Have Rights That are Senior to Those of Our Common Shareholders. At December 31, 2011 the Company had an aggregate of $64.9 million of floating rate subordinated debentures and related trust preferred securities outstanding. The Company guarantees payment of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities, and the subordinated debentures are senior to shares of the Company’s common stock. As a result, the Company must make payments on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on its common stock and, in the event of bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of common stock. The Company has the right to defer distributions on its subordinated debentures and the related trust preferred securities for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of its common stock. Our Directors and Executive Officers Own a Significant Portion of Our Stock. The Company’s directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned 16.0% of its common stock as of February 17, 2012. As a result of their aggregate beneficial ownership, directors and executive officers have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to the Company’s shareholders for approval, including the election of its directors. Our Common Stock Trading Volume May Not Provide Adequate Liquidity for Investors. Although shares of the Company’s common stock are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the average daily trading volume in the common stock is less than that of many larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the daily average trading volume of the Company’s common stock, significant sales of the common stock in a brief period of time, or the expectation of these sales, could cause a decline in the price of the Company’s common stock. Our Common Stock is Not an Insured Deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, losses in its value are not insured by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report, and is subject to the same market forces and investment risks that affect the price of common stock in any other company, including the possible loss of some or all principal invested. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 35 Table of Contents 