Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report and in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the following are some of the potential risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investments in our securities. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are heavily impacted by varying metals prices. Metal costs typically represent approximately 75% of our net sales. Metals costs can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including domestic and international economic conditions, labor costs, production levels, competition, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials for us, and may, therefore, adversely affect our net sales, operating margin and net income. Our service centers maintain substantial inventories of metal to accommodate the short lead-times and just-in-time delivery requirements of our customers. Accordingly, we purchase metal in an effort to maintain our inventory at levels that we believe to be appropriate to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers, which we base on information derived from customers, market conditions, historic usage and industry research. Our commitments for metal purchases are generally at prevailing market prices in effect at the time we place our orders. We have no substantial long-term, fixed-price purchase contracts. When raw material prices rise, we may not be able to pass the price increase on to our customers. When raw material prices decline, customer demands for lower prices could result in lower sale prices and, to the extent we reduce existing inventory quantities, lower margins. There have been historical periods of rapid and significant movements in the prices of metal both upward and downward. Any limitation on our ability to pass through any price increases to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in metal prices also affect our liquidity because of the time difference between our payment for our raw materials and our collection of cash from our customers. We sell our products and typically collect our accounts receivable within 45 days after the sale; however, we tend to pay for replacement materials (which are more expensive when metal prices are rising) over a much shorter period, in part to benefit from early-payment discounts. As a result, when metal prices are rising, we tend to draw more on the ABL facility to cover the cash flow cycle from our raw material purchases to cash collection. This cash requirement for working capital is higher in periods when we are increasing inventory quantities as we did at the end of 2004. Our liquidity is thus adversely affected by rising metal prices. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Operating and Investing Activities.” Our operating results could be negatively affected during economic downturns because the demand for our products is cyclical. Many of our products are used in businesses that are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have historically experienced periodic downturns due to economic conditions, energy prices, consumer demand and other factors beyond our control. These economic and industry downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess capacity and, in some cases, lower average selling prices for our products. Therefore, any significant downturn in one or more of the markets that we serve, one or more of the end-markets that our customers serve or in economic condition in general could result in a reduction in demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, as an increasing amount of our customers relocate their manufacturing facilities outside of the United States, we may not be able to maintain our level of sales to those customers. As a result of the depressed economic conditions and reduction in construction in the northeastern United States in the years 2000 through the middle of 2002, our customers in such geographic areas had lower demand for our products. Concurrent reduced demand in a number of these markets combined with the foreign relocation of some of our customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our customers sell their products abroad and some of our suppliers buy feedstock abroad. As a result, our business is affected by general economic conditions and other factors outside the United States, primarily in Europe and Asia. Our suppliers’ access to metal, and therefore our access to metal, is additionally affected by such conditions and factors. Similarly, the demand for our customers’ products, and therefore our products, is affected by such conditions and factors. These conditions and factors include further increased prices of steel, enhanced imbalances in the world’s iron ore, coal and steel industries, a downturn in world economies, increases in interest rates, unfavorable currency fluctuations, including the weak U.S. dollar, or a slowdown in the key industries served by our customers. In addition, demand for the products of our Building Products Group has been and is expected to continue to be adversely affected if consumer confidence falls since the results of that group depend on a strong residential remodeling industry, which in turn has been partially driven by relatively high consumer confidence. We rely on metal suppliers in our business and purchase a significant amount of metal from a limited number of suppliers. Termination of one or more of our relationships with any of these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations because we may be unable to obtain metal from other sources in a timely manner or at all. We use a variety of metals in our business. Our operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of metal on a timely basis. We purchase most of our metal from a limited number of metal suppliers. As of December 31, 2006, the top two metals producers represent a significant portion of our total metal purchasing cost. Termination of one or more of our relationships with either of these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations if we were unable to obtain metal from other sources in a timely manner. In addition, the domestic metals production industry has experienced consolidation in recent years. As of December 31, 2006, the top three metals producers together control over 60% of the domestic flat rolled steel market. Further consolidation could result in a decrease in the number of our major suppliers or a decrease in the number of alternative supply sources available to us, which could make it more likely that termination of one or more of our relationships with major suppliers would result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Consolidation could also result in price increases for the metal that we purchase. Such price increases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations if we were not able to pass these price increases on to our customers. Intense competition among many competitors could adversely affect our profitability. We are engaged in a highly fragmented and competitive industry. We compete with a large number of other value-added metals processor/service centers on a regional and local basis, some of which may have greater financial resources than us. We also compete, to a much lesser extent, with primary metals producers, who typically sell to very large customers requiring regular shipment of large volumes of metals. One competitive factor, particularly in the ferrous Flat Rolled business, is price. We may be required in the future to reduce sales volumes to maintain our level of profitability. Increased competition in any of our businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A failure to retain our key employees could adversely affect our business. We are dependent on the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. C. Lourenço Gonçalves, and other members of our senior management team to remain competitive in our industry. There is a risk that we will not be able to retain or replace these key employees. Our current key employees are subject to employment conditions or arrangements that permit the employees to terminate their employment without notice. Other than a life insurance policy maintained by us on Mr. Gonçalves, for which we are the beneficiary, we do not maintain any life insurance policies for our key employees. The loss of any member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 Table of Contents From time to time, there are shortages of qualified operators of metals processing equipment. In addition, during periods of low unemployment, turnover among less-skilled workers can be relatively high. Any failure to retain a sufficient number of such employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to litigation that could strain our resources and distract management. From time to time, we are involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits and other disputes arising in the ordinary course of business. These suits concern issues including product liability, contract disputes, employee-related matters and personal injury matters. It is not feasible to predict the outcome of all pending suits and claims, and the ultimate resolution of these matters as well as future lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. Environmental cost could decrease our net cash flow and adversely affect our profitability. Our operations are subject to extensive regulations governing waste disposal, air and water emissions, the handling of hazardous substances, remediation, workplace exposure and other environmental matters. Some of the properties we own or lease are located in areas with a history of heavy industrial use, and are near sites listed on the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, or “CERCLA,” National Priority List. See “Business—Government Regulation and Environmental Matters.” CERCLA established joint and several responsibility for cleanup without regard to fault for persons who have arranged for disposal of hazardous substances at sites that have become contaminated and for persons who own or operate contaminated facilities. We have a number of properties located in or near industrial or light industrial use areas; accordingly, these properties may have been contaminated by pollutants which would have migrated from neighboring facilities or have been deposited by prior occupants. Some of our properties are affected by contamination from leaks and drips of cutting oils and similar materials and we are investigating and remediating such known contamination pursuant to applicable environmental laws. The costs of such clean-ups to date have not been material. It is possible that we could be notified of such claims in the future. See “Business—Government Regulation and Environmental Matters.” It is also possible that we could be identified by the Environmental Protection Agency, a state agency or one or more third parties as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or under analogous state laws. If so, we could incur substantial litigation costs in defense of such claims. Adverse developments in our relationship with our unionized employees could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 290 of our employees (10%) at various sites are members of unions. We are currently a party to nine collective bargaining agreements with such unions, which expire at various times, including six of which will expire in 2007 (which cover approximately 7% of our employees). Collective bargaining agreements for all of our union employees expire in each of the next three years. However, no assurances can be given that we will succeed in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements to replace the expiring ones without a strike. Any strikes in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See “Business—Employees” for a discussion of our previous negotiations of collective bargaining agreements. Metals USA’s predecessor company emerged from Chapter 11 Reorganization in 2002 and may not be able to achieve profitability on a consistent basis. Metals USA’s predecessor company sought protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in November 2001. Metals USA’s predecessor company incurred operating losses of $2.6 million and $390.5 million during the ten-month period ended October 31, 2002 and the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, respectively. Approximately $386.1 million of the 2001 net loss was attributable to write-downs associated with the carrying value of our predecessor company’s goodwill and property and equipment to their estimated recoverable values. Metals USA incurred an operating loss of $0.9 million for the two-month period ended 16 Table of Contents December 31, 2002. The predecessor company’s equity ownership, board of directors and a portion of its senior management were replaced in connection with the reorganization. We may not be able to sustain profitability or achieve growth in our operating performance. Our historical financial information is not comparable to our current financial condition and results of operations because of our use of fresh start accounting in 2002 and purchase accounting in connection with the Merger and the 2006 Acquisitions. It may be difficult for you to compare both our historical and future results to our results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. The Merger and the 2006 Acquisitions were accounted for utilizing purchase accounting, which resulted in a new valuation for the assets and liabilities of Metals USA to their fair values. This new basis of accounting began on November 30, 2005. Allocations are subject to valuations as of the closing date of the Merger. In addition, the 2006 Acquisitions are, and we expect future acquisitions will be, also accounted for using purchase accounting and therefore similar limitations regarding comparability of historical and subsequent results could arise. Under the purchase method of accounting, the operating results of each of the acquired businesses, including the recent acquisitions, are included in our financial statements only from the date of the acquisitions. As a result, amounts presented in the consolidated financial statements and footnotes may not be comparable with those of prior periods. In addition, as a result of our emergence from bankruptcy on October 31, 2002, we were subject to “Fresh-Start Reporting.” Accordingly, our financial information as of any date or for periods after November 1, 2002, is not comparable to our historical financial information before November 1, 2002. This is primarily because “Fresh-Start Reporting” required us to reduce the carrying value of the property and equipment we owned at November 1, 2002 to zero. Accordingly, our historical operating results may be of limited use in evaluating our historical performance and comparing it to other periods. We may not successfully implement our acquisition strategy, and acquisitions that we pursue may present unforeseen integration obstacles and costs, increase our leverage and negatively impact our performance. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, and the expense incurred in consummating acquisitions of related businesses, or our failure to integrate such businesses successfully into our existing businesses, could affect our growth or result in our incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Matters Impacting Comparability of Results—2006 Acquisitions.” We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and may complete one or more significant acquisitions in the future. To finance an acquisition we may incur debt or issue equity. The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Some of the risks associated with our acquisition strategy, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, include: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • unexpected loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; • conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; • coordinating new product and process development; • hiring additional management and other critical personnel; • encountering unknown contingent liabilities which could be material; and • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Our acquisition strategy may not be successfully received by customers, and we may not realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions. 17 Table of Contents We are controlled by Apollo V and its affiliates, and their interests as equity holders may conflict with yours. We are an affiliate of, and are controlled by, Apollo V and its affiliates. The interest of Apollo V and its affiliates may not always be aligned with yours. For example, our equity holders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though these transactions might involve risks to the holders of our debt if the transactions resulted in our being more highly leveraged or significantly changed the nature of our business operations or strategy. In addition, if we encounter financial difficulties, or if we are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of our equity holders might conflict with those of the holders of our debt. In that situation, for example, the holders of our debt might want us to raise additional equity to reduce our leverage and pay our debts, while our equity holders might not want to increase their investment in us or have their ownership diluted and instead choose to take other actions, such as selling our assets. Furthermore, Apollo V and its affiliates have no continuing obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing. Additionally, Apollo V and certain of its affiliates are in the business of making investments in businesses engaged in the metals service industry that complement or directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business. Further, if they pursue such acquisitions in the metals service industry, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as Apollo V and its affiliates continue to indirectly own a significant amount of our equity, even if such amount is less than 50%, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our business decisions. 18 Table of Contents 