RISK FACTORS Any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on the business activities, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of ING. The market price of ING shares could decline due to any of these risks, and investors could lose all or part of their investments. Additional risks of which the Company is not presently aware could also affect the business operations of ING and have a material adverse effect on ING’s business activities, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, the business of a multinational, broad-based financial services firm such as ING is inherently exposed to risks that only become apparent with the benefit of hindsight. The sequence in which the risk factors are presented below is not indicative of their likelihood of occurrence or the potential magnitude of their financial consequences. Risks Related to the Financial Services Industry Because we are an integrated financial services company conducting business on a global basis, our revenues and earnings are affected by the volatility and strength of the economic, business and capital markets environments specific to the geographic regions in which we conduct business. The ongoing turbulence and volatility of such factors have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the profitability of our insurance, banking and asset management business. Factors such as interest rates, securities prices, credit (including liquidity) spreads, exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, real estate and private equity valuations, government spending, inflation, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and terrorism all impact the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of business we conduct in a specific geographic region. For example, in an economic downturn, such as the one that has affected world economies since mid-2007, characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, higher corporate and private debt defaults, lower business investment and consumer spending, the demand for banking and insurance products is adversely affected and our reserves and provisions are likely to increase, resulting in lower earnings. Securities prices, real estate valuations and private equity valuations may be adversely impacted, and any such losses would be realized through profit and loss and shareholders’ equity. Some insurance products contain minimum return or accumulation guarantees. If returns do not meet or exceed the guarantee levels we may need to set up additional reserves to fund these future guaranteed benefits. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Similarly, a downturn in the equity markets causes a reduction in commission income we earn from managing portfolios for third parties, income generated from our own proprietary portfolios, asset-based fee income on certain insurance products, and our capital base. We also offer a number of insurance and financial products that expose us to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates, securities prices, corporate and private default rates, the value of real estate assets, exchange rates and credit spreads. See also “Risks Related to the Group — Interest rate volatility may adversely affect our profitability” below. In case one or more of the factors mentioned above adversely affects the profitability of our business this might also result, among others, in the following: - the unlocking of deferred acquisition costs impacting earnings; and/or - reserve inadequacies which could ultimately be realized through profit and loss and shareholders’ equity; and/or - the write down of tax assets impacting net results; and/or - impairment expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, impacting net results. In 2008 and 2009, shareholders’ equity and our net result were significantly impacted by the turmoil and the extreme volatility in the worldwide financial markets. Further negative developments in financial markets and/or economies may have a material adverse impact on shareholders’ equity and net result in future periods, including as a result of the potential consequences listed above. We are currently recalibrating our economic capital models to reflect the extreme market conditions experienced over recent quarters in order to align them more closely with regulatory measures. This may have a material impact on our economic capital for credit risk. See “Risks Related to the Group — Ongoing turbulence and volatility in the financial markets have adversely affected us, and may continue to do so”. 9 Table of Contents Adverse capital and credit market conditions may impact our ability to access liquidity and capital, as well as the cost of credit and capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than two years. In the second half of 2008, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, market developments have resulted in restrictions on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity in our day-to-day business activities to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock; maintain our securities lending activities; and replace certain maturing liabilities. The principal sources of our liquidity are deposit funds, insurance premiums, annuity considerations, cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium-and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and stockholders’ equity. In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, there is a risk that external funding sources might not be available, or available at unfavorable terms. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to raise additional capital to support business growth, or to counter-balance the consequences of losses or increased regulatory capital requirements. This could force us to (1) delay raising capital, (2) reduce, cancel or postpone payment of dividends on our shares, (3) reduce, cancel or postpone interest payments on other securities, (4) issue capital of different types or under different terms than we would otherwise, or (5) incur a higher cost of capital than in a more stable market environment. This would have the potential to decrease both our profitability and our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and regulatory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. In the course of 2008 and 2009, governments around the world, including the Dutch government, implemented unprecedented measures to provide assistance to financial institutions, in certain cases requiring (indirect) influence on or changes to governance and remuneration practices. In certain cases governments nationalized companies or parts thereof. The measures adopted in the Netherlands include both liquidity provision and capital reinforcement, and a Dutch Credit Guarantee Scheme. The liquidity and capital reinforcement measures expired on October 10, 2009, while the Credit Guarantee Scheme of the Netherlands is scheduled to run through June 30, 2010. To date, we have been able to benefit from these measures, but our participation in these measures has resulted in certain material restrictions on us, including those agreed to with the European Commission (“EC”) as part of our Restructuring Plan. See “Risks Related to the Group — Our agreements with the Dutch State impose certain restrictions regarding the issuance or repurchase of our shares and the compensation of certain senior management positions”, “Risks Related to the Group — The implementation of the Restructuring Plan and the divestments anticipated in connection with that plan will significantly alter the size and structure of the Group and involve significant costs and uncertainties that could materially impact the Group”. The Restructuring Plan as well as any potential future transactions with the Dutch State or any other government, if any, or actions by such government regarding ING could adversely impact the position or rights of shareholders, bondholders, customers or creditors and our results, operations, solvency, liquidity and governance. In addition, we have built our liquidity risk framework on the premise that our liquidity is most efficiently and effectively managed by a centralized Group function. However, we are subject to the jurisdiction of a variety of banking and insurance regulatory bodies, some of which have proposed regulatory changes that, if implemented, would hinder our ability to manage our liquidity in such a centralized manner. Furthermore, regulatory liquidity requirements in certain jurisdictions in which we operate are generally becoming more stringent, undermining our efforts to maintain this centralized management of our liquidity. These developments may cause trapped pools of liquidity, resulting in inefficiencies in the cost of managing our liquidity, and hinder our efforts to integrate our balance sheet, which is an essential element of our Back to Basics program and our Restructuring Plan. 10 Table of Contents The default of a major market participant could disrupt the markets. Within the financial services industry the default of any one institution could lead to defaults by other institutions. The failure of a sufficiently large and influential institution could disrupt securities markets or clearance and settlement systems in our markets. This could cause market declines or volatility. Such a failure could lead to a chain of defaults that could adversely affect us and our contract counterparties. Concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, as was the case after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, because the commercial and financial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely related as a result of their credit, trading, clearing or other relationships. Even the perceived lack of creditworthiness of, or questions about, a counterparty may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. This risk is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges with whom we interact on a daily basis. Systemic risk could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise new funding and on its business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or prospects. In addition, such a failure could impact future product sales as a potential result of reduced confidence in the financial services industry. Management believes that despite increased attention recently, systemic risk to the markets in which we operate continues to exist, and dislocations caused by the interdependency of financial market participants continues to be a potential source of material adverse changes to our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because our life and non-life insurance and reinsurance businesses are subject to losses from unforeseeable and/or catastrophic events, which are inherently unpredictable, our actual claims amount may exceed our established reserves or we may experience an abrupt interruption of activities, each of which could result in lower net results and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In our life and non-life insurance and reinsurance businesses, we are subject to losses from natural and man-made catastrophic events. Such events include, without limitation, weather and other natural catastrophes such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and epidemics, as well as events such as terrorist attacks. The frequency and severity of such events, and the losses associated with them, are inherently unpredictable and cannot always be adequately reserved for. Furthermore, we are subject to actuarial and underwriting risks such as, for instance, mortality, longevity, morbidity, and adverse home claims development which result from the pricing and acceptance of insurance contracts. In accordance with industry practices, modelling of natural catastrophes is performed and risk mitigation measures are made. In case claims occur, reserves are established based on estimates using actuarial projection techniques. The process of estimating is based on information available at the time the reserves are originally established and includes updates when more information becomes available. Although we continually review the adequacy of the established claim reserves, there can be no assurances that our actual claims experience will not exceed our estimated claim reserves. If actual claim amounts exceed the estimated claim reserves, our earnings may be reduced and our net results may be adversely affected. In addition, because unforeseeable and/or catastrophic events can lead to an abrupt interruption of activities, our banking and insurance operations may be subject to losses resulting from such disruptions. Losses can relate to property, financial assets, trading positions, insurance and pension benefits to employees and also to key personnel. If our business continuity plans are not able to be put into action or do not take such events into account, losses may further increase. We operate in highly regulated industries. There could be an adverse change or increase in the financial services laws and/or regulations governing our business. We are subject to detailed banking, insurance, asset management and other financial services laws and government regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Regulatory agencies have broad administrative power over many aspects of the financial services business, which may include liquidity, capital adequacy and permitted investments, ethical issues, money laundering, privacy, record keeping, and marketing and selling practices. Banking, insurance and other financial services laws, regulations and policies currently governing us and our subsidiaries may also change at any time in ways which have an adverse effect on our business, and it is difficult to predict the timing or form of any future regulatory or enforcement initiatives in respect thereof. Also, bank regulators and other supervisory authorities in the EU, the US and elsewhere continue to scrutinize payment processing and other transactions under regulations governing such matters as money-laundering, prohibited transactions with countries subject to sanctions, and bribery or other anti-corruption measures. Regulation is becoming increasingly more extensive and complex and regulators are focusing increased scrutiny on the industries in which we operate, often requiring additional Company resources. These regulations can serve to limit our activities, including through our net capital, customer 11 Table of Contents protection and market conduct requirements, and restrictions on businesses in which we can operate or invest. If we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, appropriately any of these matters, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to additional legal risk, which could, in turn, increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties. In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Most of the principal markets where we conduct our business have adopted, or are currently considering, major legislative and/or regulatory initiatives in response to the financial crisis. In particular, governmental and regulatory authorities in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States and elsewhere are implementing measures to increase regulatory control in their respective financial markets and financial services sectors, including in the areas of prudential rules, capital requirements, executive compensation and financial reporting, among others. For example, the EC is conducting a full scale review of solvency margins and provisions for insurance companies known as “Solvency II”. Each member state of the EEA, including the Netherlands, is required to implement Solvency II by October 31, 2012. On December 17, 2009 the Basel Committee issued two consultative documents proposing reforms to bank capital and liquidity regulation and the EC is also considering increasing the capital requirements for banks. In addition, the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) is considering changes to several IFRS standards, including significant changes to the standard on financial instruments (IAS 39) and to the standard on pensions (IAS 19). These changes could have a material impact on our reported results and financial condition. Governments in the Netherlands and abroad have also intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to stresses experienced in the global financial markets. Some of the measures adopted subject us and other institutions for which they were designed to additional restrictions, oversight or costs. For restrictions related to the Core Tier 1 Securities and the IABF, as further described in Item 4. “Information on the Company Recent Developments” (together, the “Dutch State Transactions”), see “— Our agreements with the Dutch State impose certain restrictions regarding the issuance or repurchase of our shares and the compensation of certain senior management positions”. As a result of having received state aid through the Dutch State Transactions, we were required to submit our Restructuring Plan to the EC in connection with obtaining final approval for the Dutch State Transactions. See “Risks Related to the Group — The implementation of the Restructuring Plan and the divestments anticipated in connection with that plan will significantly alter the size and structure of the Group and involve significant costs and uncertainties that could materially impact the Group”. We cannot predict whether or when future legislative or regulatory actions may be taken, or what impact, if any, actions taken to date or in the future could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Despite our efforts to maintain effective compliance procedures and to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there are a number of risks in areas where applicable regulations may be unclear, subject to multiple interpretation or under development or may conflict with one another, where regulators revise their previous guidance or courts overturn previous rulings, or we fail to meet applicable standards. Regulators and other authorities have the power to bring administrative or judicial proceedings against us, which could result, amongst other things, in suspension or revocation of our licenses, cease and desist orders, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties or other disciplinary action which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO THE GROUP Ongoing turbulence and volatility in the financial markets have adversely affected us, and may continue to do so. Our results of operations are materially impacted by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. The stress experienced in the global capital markets that started in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased throughout 2008 and, although market conditions have improved, volatility continued in 2009, particularly the early part of the year. The crisis in the mortgage market in the United States, triggered by a serious deterioration of credit quality, led to a revaluation of credit risks. These conditions have resulted in greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and overall shortage of liquidity and tightening of financial markets throughout the world. In addition, prices for many types of asset-backed securities (“ABS”) and other structured products have significantly deteriorated. These concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade, the international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes, such as public and private equity, and real estate sectors. As a result, the market for fixed income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to dispose of. International equity markets have also been experiencing heightened volatility and 12 Table of Contents turmoil, with issuers, including ourselves, that have exposure to the real estate, mortgage, private equity and credit markets particularly affected. These events and market upheavals, including extreme levels of volatility, have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and extensive real estate activities around the world. In addition, the confidence of customers in financial institutions is being tested. Consumer confidence in financial institutions may, for example, decrease due to our or our competitors’ failure to communicate to customers the terms of, and the benefits to customers of, complex or high-fee financial products. Reduced confidence could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations, including through an increase of lapses or surrenders of policies and withdrawal of deposits. Because a significant percentage of our customer deposit base is originated via Internet banking, a loss of customer confidence may result in a rapid withdrawal of deposits over the Internet. As a result of the ongoing and unprecedented volatility in the global financial markets in 2007 and 2008, we have incurred substantial negative revaluations on our investment portfolio, which have impacted our shareholders’ equity and earnings. During 2009, the revaluation reserve position improved substantially, positively impacting shareholders’ equity. Although we believe that reserves for insurance liabilities are generally adequate at the Group, inadequacies in certain product areas have developed. Such impacts have arisen primarily as a result of valuation issues arising in connection with our investments in real estate (both in and outside the US) and private equity, exposures to US mortgage-related structured investment products, including sub-prime and Alt-A Residential and Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities (“RMBS” and “CMBS”, respectively), Collateralized Debt Obligations (“CDOs”) and Collateralized Loan Obligations (“CLOs”), monoline insurer guarantees and other investments. In many cases, the markets for such investments and instruments have been and remain highly illiquid, and issues relating to counterparty credit ratings and other factors have exacerbated pricing and valuation uncertainties. Valuation of such investments and instruments is a complex process involving the consideration of market transactions, pricing models, management judgment and other factors, and is also impacted by external factors such as underlying mortgage default rates, interest rates, rating agency actions and property valuations. While we continue to monitor our exposures in this area, in light of the ongoing market environment and the resulting uncertainties concerning valuations, there can be no assurances that we will not experience further negative impacts to our shareholders’ equity or profit and loss accounts from such assets in future periods. The implementation of the Restructuring Plan and the divestments anticipated in connection with that plan will significantly alter the size and structure of the Group and involve significant costs and uncertainties that could materially impact the Group. In November 2008 the Dutch State purchased the Core Tier 1 Securities, and in the first quarter of 2009 we entered into the IABF with the Dutch State as further described on page 30. As a result of having received state aid through the Dutch State Transactions, we were required to submit a restructuring plan (the “Restructuring Plan”) to the EC in connection with obtaining final approval for the Dutch State Transactions under the EC state aid rules. On October 26, 2009, we announced our Restructuring Plan, pursuant to which we are required to divest by the end of 2013 all of our insurance business, including the investment management business, as well as ING Direct US, which operates our direct banking business in the United States, and certain portions of our retail banking business in the Netherlands. The EC’s approval of the Restructuring Plan was issued on November 18, 2009. On January 28, 2010 ING lodged an appeal with the General Court of the European Union (the “General Court”) against specific elements of the EC’s decision regarding the Restructuring Plan. Notwithstanding this appeal, we are committed executing the Restructuring Plan as announced on October 26, 2009. In addition, in order to obtain approval of the Restructuring Plan, we committed to make a series of additional payments to the Dutch State, corresponding to adjustments to the net fees payable under the IABF. These payments have significantly increased the cost of the IABF to us and has resulted in a one-time, pre-tax charge of EUR 1.3 billion recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 which has adversely affected our results of operations and financial condition. See 