RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Financial Services Industry Because we are an integrated financial services company conducting business on a global basis, our revenues and earnings are affected by the volatility and strength of the economic, business and capital markets environments specific to the geographic regions in which we conduct business and changes in such factors may adversely affect the profitability of our insurance, banking and asset management business. Factors such as interest rates, exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, real estate market, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and terrorism all impact the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of business we conduct in a specific geographic region. For example, in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, higher corporate and private debt defaults, lower business investment and consumer spending, the demand for banking and insurance products would be adversely affected and our reserves and provisions would likely increase, resulting in lower earnings. Similarly, a downturn in the equity markets could cause a reduction in commission income we earn from managing portfolios for third parties, as well as income generated and capital base from our own proprietary portfolios, each of which is generally tied to the performance and value of such portfolios. We also offer a number of insurance and financial products that expose us to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates, securities prices, corporate and private default rates, the value of real estate assets, exchange rates and credit spreads. In addition, a mismatch of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities in any given period may, in the event of changes in interest rates, have a material effect on the financial condition or result from operations of our banking and insurance businesses. Because our life and non-life insurance and reinsurance businesses are subject to losses from unforeseeable and/or catastrophic events, which are inherently unpredictable, our actual claims amount may exceed our established reserves or we may experience an abrupt interruption of activities, each of which could result in lower net profits and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In our life and non-life insurance and reinsurance businesses, we are subject to losses from natural and man-made catastrophic events. Such events include, without limitation, weather and other natural catastrophes such as hurricanes, floods and earthquakes, epidemics, as well as terrorist attacks. The frequency and severity of such events, and the losses associated with them, are inherently unpredictable and can not always be adequately reserved. In accordance with industry practices, modeling of natural catastrophes are performed and risk mitigation measures are made. In case claims occur, reserves are established based on estimates using actuarial projection techniques. The process of estimating is based on information available at the time the reserves are originally established and includes updates when more information becomes available. Although we continually review the adequacy of the established claim reserves, and based on current information, we believe our claim reserves are sufficient in total, there can be no assurances that our actual claims experience will not exceed our estimated claim reserves. If actual claim amounts exceed the estimated claim reserves, our earnings may be reduced and our net profits may be adversely affected. In addition, because unforeseeable and/or catastrophic events can lead to abrupt interruption of activities, our banking and insurance operations may be subject to losses resulting from such disruptions. Losses can relate to property, financial assets, trading positions, insurance and pension benefits to employees and also to key personnel. If our business continuity plans are not able to be put into action or do not take such events into account, losses may further increase. Because we operate in highly regulated industries, laws, regulations and regulatory policies or the enforcement thereof that govern activities in our various business lines could have an effect on our reputation, operations and net profits. We are subject to detailed banking, insurance, asset management and other financial services laws and government regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Regulatory agencies have broad administrative power over many aspects of the financial services business, which may include liquidity, capital adequacy and permitted investments, ethical issues, money laundering, privacy, record keeping, and marketing and selling practices. Banking, insurance and other financial services laws, regulations and policies currently governing us and our subsidiaries may also change at any time in ways which have an adverse effect 9 Table of Contents on our business, and it is difficult to predict the timing or form of any future regulatory or enforcement initiatives in respect thereof. Also, bank regulators and other supervisory authorities in the EU, the US and elsewhere continue to scrutinize payment processing and other transactions under regulations governing such matters as money-laundering, prohibited transactions with countries subject to sanctions, and bribery or other anti-corruption measures. Regulation is becoming increasingly more extensive and complex and regulators are focusing increased scrutiny on the industries in which we operate, often requiring additional Company resources. These regulations can serve to limit our activities, including through our net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements, and restrictions on businesses in which we can operate or invest. If we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, appropriately any of these matters, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to additional legal risk, which could, in turn, increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties. Despite our efforts to maintain effective compliance procedures and to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there are a number of risks in areas where applicable regulations may be unclear, subject to multiple interpretation or conflict with one another, where regulators revise their previous guidance or courts overturn previous rulings, or we fail to meet applicable standards. Regulators and other authorities have the power to bring administrative or judicial proceedings against us, which could result, amongst other things, in suspension or revocation of our licenses, cease and desist orders, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties or other disciplinary action which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY Because we operate in highly competitive markets, including in our home market, we may not be able to further increase, or even maintain, our market share, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. There is substantial competition in the Netherlands and the other countries in which we do business for the types of insurance, commercial banking, investment banking, asset management and other products and services we provide. Customer loyalty and retention can be influenced by a number of factors, including relative service levels, the prices and attributes of products and services, and actions taken by competitors. If we are not able to match or compete with the products and services offered by our competitors, it could adversely impact our ability to maintain or further increase our market share, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Such competition is most pronounced in our more mature markets of the Netherlands, Belgium, the Rest of Europe, the United States, Canada and Australia. In recent years, however, competition in emerging markets, such as Latin America, Asia and Central and Eastern Europe, has also increased as large insurance and banking industry participants from more developed countries have sought to establish themselves in markets which are perceived to offer higher growth potential, and as local institutions have become more sophisticated and competitive and have sought alliances, mergers or strategic relationships with our competitors. We derived approximately 34% of our profit before tax in 2006 from the Netherlands. Based on geographic division of our operating profit, the Netherlands is our largest market for both our banking and insurance operations. Our main competitors in the banking sector in the Netherlands are ABN Amro Bank and Rabobank. Our main competitors in the insurance sector in the Netherlands are Achmea, Fortis and Aegon. We derived approximately 19% of our profit before tax in 2006 from the United States. Our main competitors in the United States are insurance companies such as Lincoln National, Hartford, Aegon Americas, Met Life, Prudential, Nationwide and Principal Financial. Increasing competition in these or any of our other markets may significantly impact our results if we are unable to match the products and services offered by our competitors. Because we have many counterparties that we do business with, the inability of these counterparties to meet their financial obligations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. General Third-parties that owe us money, securities or other assets may not pay or perform under their obligations. These parties include the issuers whose securities we hold, borrowers under loans originated, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps, credit default and other derivative contracts, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing house and other financial intermediaries. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, downturns in the economy or real estate values, operational failure or other reasons. 10 Table of Contents Reinsurers Our insurance operations have bought protection for risks that exceed certain risk tolerance levels set for both our life and non-life business. This protection is bought through reinsurance arrangements in order to reduce possible losses. Because in most cases we must pay the policyholders first, and then collect from the reinsurer, we are subject to credit risk with respect to each reinsurer for all such amounts. As a percentage of our (potential) reinsurance receivables as of December 31, 2006, the greatest exposure after collateral to an individual reinsurer was approximately 33%, approximately 18% related to four other reinsurers and the remainder of the reinsurance receivables balance related to various other reinsurers. The inability of any one of these reinsurers to meet its financial obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our net profits and our financial results. Because we use assumptions about factors to determine the insurance provisions, deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and value of business added (VOBA), the use of different assumptions about these factors may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The establishment of insurance provisions, including the impact of minimum guarantees which are contained within certain variable annuity products, the adequacy test performed on the provisions for life policies and the establishment of DAC and VOBA are inherently uncertain processes involving assumptions about factors such as court decisions, changes in laws, social, economic and demographic trends, inflation, investment returns, policyholder behaviour (e.g. lapses, persistency, etc.) and other factors, and, in the life insurance business, assumptions concerning mortality and morbidity trends. The use of different assumptions about these factors could have a material effect on insurance provisions and underwriting expense. Changes in assumptions may lead to changes in the insurance provisions over time. Furthermore, some of these assumptions can be volatile. For example, in Taiwan, the adequacy of provisions for life policies are highly sensitive to interest rates and other assumptions and can only be reliably estimated within broad ranges which may vary significantly from period to period. If the interest rates as at December 31, 2006 had been 1% lower, these Taiwan provisions would have been inadequate at the 50% confidence interval and, consequently, an amount of approximately EUR 1.5 billion (after tax) would have been included as a charge in the profit and loss account, reflecting the amount necessary to bring reserves to a best estimate level. Because we use assumptions to model client behaviour for the purpose of our market risk calculations, the difference between the realization and the assumptions may have an adverse impact on the risk figures. We use assumptions in order to model client behaviour for the risk calculations in our banking and insurance books. Assumptions are used to determine insurance liabilities, the price sensitivity of savings and current accounts and to estimate the embedded optionality risk in the mortgage and investment portfolios. The realization or use of different assumptions to determine the client behaviour could have material adverse effect on the calculated risk figures and ultimately future results. Because we also operate in markets with less developed judiciary and dispute resolution systems, in the event of disputes in these markets, the quality and the effectiveness of such systems could have an adverse effect on our operations and net results. In the less developed markets in which we operate, judiciary and dispute resolution systems may be less developed. As a result in case of a breach of contract we may have difficulties in making and enforcing claims against contractual counterparties and, if claims are made against us, we might encounter difficulties in mounting a defense against such allegations. If we become party to legal proceedings in a market with an insufficiently developed judiciary system, it could have an adverse effect on our operations and net result. Because we are a financial services company and we are continually developing new financial products, we might be faced with claims that could have an adverse effect on our operations and net result if clients’ expectations are not met. When new financial products are brought to the market, communication and marketing aims to present a balance view of the product (however there is a focus on potential advantages for the customers). Whilst we engage in a due diligence process when we develop products, if the products do not generate the expected profit, or result in a loss, or otherwise do not meet expectations, customers may file claims against us. Such claims could have an adverse effect on our operations and net result. 11 Table of Contents Our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to the Company, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally. Adverse publicity and damage to ING’s reputation arising from its failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, financial reporting irregularities involving other large and well known companies, increasing regulatory and law enforcement scrutiny of “know your customer” anti-money laundering, prohibited transactions with countries subject to sanctions, and bribery or other anti-corruption measures and anti-terrorist-financing procedures and their effectiveness, regulatory investigations of the mutual fund, banking and insurance industries, and litigation that arises from the failure or perceived failure by ING to comply with legal, regulatory and compliance requirements, could result in adverse publicity and reputational harm, lead to increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers, maintain access to the capital markets, result in cease and desist orders, suits, enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal penalties, other disciplinary action or have other material adverse effects on us in ways that are not predictable. Because we are a Dutch company and because the Stichting ING Aandelen holds more than 99% of our Ordinary shares, the rights of our shareholders may differ from the rights of shareholders in other jurisdictions, which could affect your rights as a shareholder. While holders of our bearer receipts are entitled to attend and speak at the General Meetings of Shareholders, voting rights are not attached to the bearer depositary receipts. Stichting ING Aandelen (“the Trust”) holds more than 99% of our Ordinary shares, and exercises the voting rights attached to the Ordinary shares (for which bearer receipts have been issued). Holders of bearer receipts who attend – in person or by proxy – the General Meeting of Shareholders must obtain voting rights by proxy from the Trust. Holders of bearer receipts and holders of the ADSs (American Depositary Shares) representing the bearer receipts, who do not attend the General Meeting of Shareholders, may give binding voting instructions to the Trust. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Voting of the Ordinary shares underlying bearer receipts by the Trust”. The Trust is entitled to vote any Ordinary shares underlying the bearer depositary receipts for which the Trust has not granted voting proxies, or voting instructions have not been given to the Trust. In exercising its voting discretion, the Trust is required to make use of the voting rights attached to the Ordinary shares in the interest of the holders of bearer receipts, while taking into account • our interests; • the interests of our affiliates; and • the interests of our other stakeholders. in such a way that all interests are balanced and safeguarded as effectively as possible. The Trust may, but has no obligation to, consult with the holders of bearer receipts or ADSs in exercising its voting rights in respect of any Ordinary shares for which it is entitled to vote. These arrangements differ from practices in other jurisdictions, and accordingly may affect the rights of the holders of bearer receipts or ADSs and their power to effect the Company’s business and operations. The share price of our bearer receipts and ADSs has been, and may continue to be, volatile which may impact the value of our bearer receipts or ADSs you hold. The share price of our bearer receipts and our ADSs has been volatile in the past due, in part, to the high volatility in the securities markets generally and more particular in shares of financial institutions. Other factors, besides our financial results, that may impact our share price include, but are not limited to: • market expectations of the performance and capital adequacy of financial institutions in general; • investor perception of the success and impact of our strategies; • a downgrade or review of our credit ratings; • potential litigation or regulatory action involving ING Group or sectors we have exposure to through our insurance and banking activities; • announcements concerning financial problems or any investigations into the accounting practices of other financial institutions; and general market circumstances. 12 Table of Contents Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands and most of the members of our Supervisory and Executive Board and many of our officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or the members of our Supervisory and Executive Boards or our officers. Most of our Supervisory and Executive Board members, and some of the experts named in this Annual Report, as well as many of our officers are persons who are not residents of the United States, and most of our and their assets, are located outside the United States. As a result, you may not be able to serve process on those persons within the United States or to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. You also may not be able to enforce judgments of U.S. courts under the U.S. federal securities laws in courts outside the United States, including the Netherlands. The United States and the Netherlands do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, you will not be able to enforce in the Netherlands a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, even if the judgment is not based only on the U.S. federal securities laws, unless a competent court in the Netherlands gives binding effect to the judgment. 13 Table of Contents 