RISK FACTORS Any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on the business activities, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of ING. The market price of ING shares could decline due to any of these risks, and investors could lose all or part of their investments. Additional risks of which the Company is not presently aware could also affect the business operations of ING and have a material adverse effect on ING’s business activities, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, the business of a multinational, broad-based financial services firm such as ING is inherently exposed to risks that only become apparent with the benefit of hindsight. The sequence in which the risk factors are presented below is not indicative of their likelihood of occurrence or the potential magnitude of their financial consequences. RISKS RELATED TO FINANCIAL CONDITIONS, MARKET ENVIRONMENT AND GENERAL ECONOMIC TRENDS Because we are a financial services company conducting business on a global basis, our revenues and earnings are affected by the volatility and strength of the economic, business and capital markets environments specific to the geographic regions in which we conduct business. The ongoing turbulence and volatility of such factors have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the profitability and solvency of our insurance, banking and asset management business. Factors such as interest rates, securities prices, credit spreads, liquidity spreads, exchange rates, consumer spending, changes in client behaviour, business investment, real estate values and private equity valuations, government spending, inflation, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, political events and trends, and terrorism all impact the business and economic environment and, ultimately, our solvency, liquidity and the amount and profitability of business we conduct in a specific geographic region. In an economic downturn characterised by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, higher corporate and private debt defaults, lower business investments and lower consumer spending, the demand for banking and insurance products is usually adversely affected and ING’s reserves and provisions typically would increase, resulting in overall lower earnings. Securities prices, real estate values and private equity valuations may also be adversely impacted, and any such losses would be realised through profit and loss and shareholders’ equity. Some insurance products contain minimum return or accumulation guarantees. If returns do not meet or exceed the guarantee levels, we may need to set up additional reserves to fund these future guaranteed benefits. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Similarly, a downturn in the equity markets causes a reduction in commission income we earn from managing portfolios for third parties, income generated from our own proprietary portfolios, asset-based fee income on certain insurance products, and our capital base. We also offer a number of insurance and financial products that expose us to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates, securities prices, corporate and private default rates, the value of real estate assets, exchange rates and credit spreads. See also ‘— Interest rate volatility and other interest rate changes may adversely affect our profitability’, ‘— Continued risk of resurgence of turbulence and ongoing volatility in the financial markets and the economy generally have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations’, and ‘— Market conditions observed over the past few years may increase the risk of loans being impaired. We are exposed to declining property values on the collateral supporting residential and commercial real estate lending’ below. In case one or more of the factors mentioned above adversely affects the profitability of our business, this might also result, among other things, in the following: - changes in the treatment of deferred acquisition costs (‘DAC’); - reserve inadequacies, which could ultimately be realised through profit and loss and shareholders’ equity; - the write-down of tax assets impacting net results and or equity; - impairment expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, impacting net results; - movements in risk weighted assets for the determination of required capital; - changes in credit valuation adjustments and debt valuation adjustments; and/or - additional costs related to maintenance of higher liquidity buffers. Shareholders’ equity and our net result may be significantly impacted by turmoil and volatility in the worldwide financial markets. Negative developments in financial markets and/or economies may have a material adverse impact on shareholders’ equity and net result in future periods, including as a result of the potential consequences listed above. See ‘— Continued risk of resurgence of turbulence and ongoing volatility in the financial markets and the economy generally have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations’ below. 8 Table of Contents Adverse capital and credit market conditions may impact our ability to access liquidity and capital, as well as the cost of liquidity, credit and capital. The capital and credit markets have continued to experience substantial volatility and disruption over the past few years, after having reached unprecedented levels in the second half of 2008 through most of 2010. Adverse capital market conditions may affect the availability and cost of borrowed funds, thereby impacting our ability to support and/or grow our businesses. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, insurance claims, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, maintain our securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our funding are deposit funds, insurance premiums, annuity considerations and cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. Sources of funding in normal markets may also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium- and long-term debt, subordinated debt securities, capital securities and stockholders’ equity. In the event that our current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may need to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, there is a risk that we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favourable terms, or at all. Any actions we might take to access financing may, in turn, cause rating agencies to re-evaluate our ratings. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets, including in relation to the ongoing European sovereign debt crisis, may also limit our access to capital. Such market conditions may in the future limit our ability to raise additional capital to support business growth, or to counterbalance the consequences of losses or increased regulatory capital and rating agency capital requirements. This could force us to (i) delay raising capital, (ii) reduce, cancel or postpone payment of dividends on our shares, (iii) reduce, cancel or postpone interest payments on our other securities, (iv) issue capital of different types or under different terms than we would otherwise, or (v) incur a higher cost of capital than in a more stable market environment. This would have the potential to decrease both our profitability and our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, regulatory capital and rating agency capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. In the course of 2008 and 2009, governments around the world, including the Dutch government, implemented unprecedented measures to provide assistance to financial institutions, in certain cases requiring (indirect) influence on or changes to governance and remuneration practices. In certain cases, governments nationalised companies or parts thereof. The measures adopted in the Netherlands include both emergency funding and capital reinforcement, and a Dutch Credit Guarantee Scheme. The liquidity and capital reinforcement measures expired on 10 October 2009, and the Credit Guarantee Scheme of the Netherlands expired on 31 December 2010. Our participation in certain of these measures has resulted in certain material restrictions on us, including those required by the European Commission (‘EC’) as part of our Restructuring Plan. See ‘Risks Related to the Restructuring Plan — The implementation of the Restructuring Plan and the divestments anticipated in connection with that plan will significantly alter the size and structure of the Group and involve significant costs and uncertainties that could materially impact the Group’. The Restructuring Plan, as well as any potential future transactions with the Dutch State or any other government, if any, or actions by such government regarding ING could adversely impact the position or rights of shareholders, bondholders, customers or creditors and our results, operations, solvency, liquidity and governance. We are subject to the jurisdiction of a variety of banking and insurance regulatory bodies, some of which have proposed regulatory changes in recent years that, if implemented, would hinder our ability to manage our liquidity in a centralised manner. Furthermore, regulatory liquidity requirements in certain jurisdictions in which we operate are generally becoming more stringent, including those forming part of the ‘Basel III’ requirements discussed further below under ‘— We operate in highly regulated industries. Changes in laws and/or regulations governing financial services or financial institutions or the application of such laws and/or regulations governing our business may reduce our profitability’, undermining our efforts to maintain this centralised management of our liquidity. These developments may cause trapped pools of liquidity, resulting in inefficiencies in the cost of managing our liquidity, and hinder our efforts to integrate our balance sheet, which is an essential element of our Restructuring Plan. The default of a major market participant could disrupt the markets. Within the financial services industry, the severe distress or default of any one institution (including sovereigns) could lead to defaults by, or the severe distress of, other market participants. Such distress of, or default by, an influential financial institution could disrupt securities markets or clearance and settlement systems and lead to a chain of defaults by other financial institutions because the commercial and financial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely related as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships. Even the perceived 9 Table of Contents lack of creditworthiness of a sovereign or financial institution (or a default by any such entity) may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. This risk is sometimes referred to as ‘systemic risk’ and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges with whom we interact on a daily basis and financial instruments of sovereigns in which we invest. Systemic risk could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise new funding and on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or prospects. In addition, such distress or failure could impact future product sales as a potential result of reduced confidence in the financial services industry. We may incur losses as a result of unforeseen and/or catastrophic events, which are inherently unpredictable, and the actual claim amount in our life and non-life insurance and reinsurance businesses may exceed our established reserves or we may experience an abrupt interruption of activities, each of which could result in lower net results and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In our life and non-life insurance and reinsurance businesses, we are subject to losses from natural and man-made catastrophic events. Such events include, without limitation, weather and other natural catastrophes such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and epidemics that may be more severe or difficult to predict as a result of variable climate conditions, as well as man-made disasters and core infrastructure failures such as acts of terrorism, military actions, power grid and telephone/Internet infrastructure failures and political and social unrest. The frequency and severity of such events, and the losses associated with them, are inherently unpredictable and cannot always be adequately reserved for. The occurrence of such events could create economic and financial disruptions and lead to operational difficulties that could impair our ability to manage our business and may adversely affect our assets under management (‘AUM’), results of operations and financial condition. Claims resulting from catastrophic events could also materially harm the financial condition of our reinsurers, which would increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new business could also be adversely affected. In addition, we are subject to actuarial and underwriting risks such as mortality, longevity, morbidity, and adverse claims development which result from the pricing and acceptance of insurance contracts. In accordance with industry practices, modelling of natural catastrophes is performed and risk mitigation measures are taken. In case claims occur, reserves are established based on estimates using actuarial projection techniques. The process of estimating is based on information available at the time the reserves are originally established and includes updates when more information becomes available. Although we continually review the adequacy of the established claim reserves, there can be no assurance that our actual claim amount will not exceed our estimated claim reserves. If actual claim amounts exceed the estimated claim reserves, our earnings may be reduced and our financial condition and net results may be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our business continuation and crisis management plan or insurance coverage would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on operations or profitability in the event of a disaster, nor can we provide assurance that the business continuation and crisis management plans of the independent distributors and outside vendors on whom we rely for certain services and products would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on the provision of such services and products in the event of a disaster. See below under ‘Risks Related to the Group’s Business, Operations, and Regulatory Environment — Operational risks, such as systems disruptions or failures, breaches of security, cyberattacks, human error, changes in operational practices or inadequate controls may adversely impact our business and reputation’ for more information on other operations risks we face. We operate in highly regulated industries. Changes in laws and/or regulations governing financial services or financial institutions or the application of such laws and/or regulations governing our business may reduce our profitability. We are subject to detailed banking, insurance, asset management and other financial services laws and government regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Regulatory agencies have broad administrative power over many aspects of our business, which may include liquidity, capital adequacy, permitted investments, ethical issues, money laundering, anti-terrorism measures, privacy, recordkeeping, product and sale suitability, marketing and sales practices, remuneration policies and our own internal governance practices. Also, regulators and other supervisory authorities in the European Union (‘EU’), the United States (‘U.S.’) and elsewhere continue to scrutinise payment processing and other transactions and activities of the financial services industry through laws and regulations governing such matters as money laundering, prohibited transactions with countries subject to sanctions, and bribery or other anti-corruption measures. In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators around the world have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Most of the principal markets where we conduct our business have adopted, or are currently in the implementation phase of, major legislative and/or regulatory initiatives in response to the financial crisis. Governmental and regulatory authorities in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the U.S. and elsewhere have implemented, or are in the process of implementing measures to increase regulatory control in their respective financial markets and financial services sectors, including, among 10 Table of Contents others, in the areas of prudential rules, liquidity and capital requirements, executive compensation, crisis and contingency management, bank levies and financial reporting. Additionally, governmental and regulatory authorities in the Netherlands as well as in a multitude of jurisdictions where we conduct our business continue to consider new mechanisms to limit the occurrence and/or severity of future economic crises (including proposals to restrict the size of financial institutions operating in their jurisdictions and/or the scope of operations of such institutions). Furthermore, we are subject to different tax regulations in each of the jurisdictions where we conduct business. Changes in tax laws could increase our taxes and our effective tax rates. Legislative changes could materially impact our tax receivables and liabilities as well as deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. One such change relates to the current debate in the U.S. over corporate tax reform for multinational corporations and corporate tax rates. Changes in tax laws could also make certain ING products less attractive, which could have adverse consequences for our businesses and results. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time-consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in laws and regulations may materially increase the cost of compliance and other expenses of doing business. We expect the scope and extent of regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, as well as regulatory oversight and supervision, to generally continue to increase. However, we cannot predict whether or when future legislative or regulatory actions may be taken, or what impact, if any, actions taken to date or in the future could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regulation is becoming increasingly more extensive and complex and the industries in which we operate are increasingly coming under the scrutiny of regulators, and affected companies, including ING, are required to meet the demands, which often necessitate additional resources. These regulations can limit our activities, among others, through stricter net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements and restrictions on businesses in which we can operate or invest. Despite our efforts to maintain effective compliance procedures and to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there are a number of risks in areas where applicable regulations may be unclear, subject to multiple interpretations or under development, or where regulations may conflict with one another, or where regulators revise their previous guidance or courts overturn previous rulings, which could result in our failure to meet applicable standards. Regulators and other authorities have the power to bring administrative or judicial proceedings against us, which could result, among other things, in suspension or revocation of our licenses, cease and desist orders, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties or other disciplinary action, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, any of these matters appropriately, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to additional legal risk, which could, in turn, increase the size and number of claims and damages brought against us or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties. See ‘Item 4. Information on the Company — Important Developments in Regulation and Supervision’ and ‘Item 4. Information on the Company — Regulation and Supervision’. Basel III In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (‘Basel Committee’) announced higher global minimum capital standards for banks and introduced a new global liquidity standard and a new leverage ratio. The Basel Committee’s package of reforms, collectively referred to as the ‘Basel III’ rules, will, among other requirements, increase the amount of common equity required to be held by subject banking institutions, prescribe the amount of liquid assets and the long-term funding a subject banking institution must hold at any given moment and limit leverage. Banks will be required to hold a ‘capital conservation buffer’ to withstand future periods of stress such that the total Tier 1 common equity ratio, when fully phased in on 1 January 2019, will rise to 7%. Basel III also introduced a ‘countercyclical buffer’ as an extension of the capital conservation buffer, which would allow national regulators to require banks to hold more capital during periods of high credit growth (to strengthen capital reserves and moderate the debt markets). Further, Basel III has strengthened the definition of capital that will have the effect of disqualifying many hybrid securities, including those issued by the Group, from inclusion in regulatory capital, as well as the higher capital requirements for trading, derivative and securitisation activities as part of a number of reforms to the Basel II framework. In addition, the Basel Committee and the Financial Stability Board (‘FSB’) published measures in October 2011 that would have the effect of requiring higher loss absorbency capacity, liquidity surcharges, exposure limits and special resolution regimes for, and instituting more intensive and effective supervision of, ‘systemically important financial institutions’ (‘SIFIs’) and so-called ‘Global’ SIFIs (‘G-SIFIs’), in addition to the Basel III requirements otherwise applicable to most financial institutions. The implementation of these measures began in 2012, and full implementation is targeted for 2019. ING Bank was designated by the Basel Committee and the FSB as one of the global systemically important banks (‘G-SIBs’), forming part of the G-SIFIs, in 2011, 2012 and 2013, and by the Dutch Central Bank (De Nederlandsche Bank N.V., ‘DNB’) and the Dutch Ministry of Finance as a domestic SIFI in November 2011. The Basel III proposals and their potential impact are monitored via semi-annual monitoring exercises in which ING Bank participates. As a result of such monitoring exercises and ongoing discussions within the regulatory environment, revisions have been made to the original Basel III proposals as was the case with the revised Liquidity Coverage Ratio in January 2013 and the revised Net Stable Funding Ratio and Leverage Ratio in January 2014. It remains to be seen whether further amendments to the 2010 framework and standards will be made by the Basel Committee in the coming years. 11 Table of Contents For European banks, the Basel III requirements will be implemented through the so-called Capital Requirements Regulation and Capital Requirements Directive IV (‘CRD IV Regulation’ and ‘CRD IV Directive’, respectively), which were adopted by the EC in June 2013 following approval by the European Parliament in April 2013. The CRD IV Regulation entered into force on 28 June 2013 and the CRD IV Directive on 17 July 2013, and all banks and investment firms in the EU (as opposed to the scope of the Basel III requirements, which apply to ‘internationally active banks’) are required to apply the new rules from 1 January 2014 in phases, with full implementation by 1 January 2019. While the full impact of these rules, and any additional requirements for SIFIs or G-SIFIs, if and as applicable to the Group, will depend on how the CRD IV Directive will be transposed into national laws in each Member State, including the extent to which national regulators and supervisors can set more stringent limits and additional capital requirements or surcharges, as well as on the economic and financial environment at the time of implementation and beyond, we expect these rules to have a material impact on ING’s operations and financial condition and they may require the Group to seek additional capital. Further, the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) has issued and proposed certain amendments to several IFRS standards during the course of 2012 and 2013, which changes include a package of amendments to the accounting requirements for financial instruments announced in November 2013, introducing a new hedge accounting model and allowing changes to address the so-called ‘own credit’ issue that were already included in IFRS 9 Financial Instruments that would replace IAS 39, the accounting standard heavily criticized in the wake of the financial crisis. Such changes could also have a material impact on our reported results and financial condition, as well as on how we manage our business, internal controls and disclosure. Solvency II The European Council has agreed upon a full scale revision of the solvency framework and prudential regime applicable to insurance and reinsurance companies, known as ‘Solvency II’, which was adopted on 25 November 2009 (Directive 2009/138/EC). A key aspect of Solvency II is the closer alignment of the assessment of risks and capital requirements with economic capital methodologies. Under the Solvency II regime, insurance companies may be permitted to make use of an internal economic capital model as a basis for calculation of their capital needs and solvency position (in the Netherlands, such a model (including ING’s model) has to be approved by the DNB). The final text of the Level I Framework Directive includes rules regarding, among other things, own funds, capital requirements, investments and group supervision. Following adoption of this Level I Framework Directive, the EC and European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (‘EIOPA’), formerly CEIOPS, have initiated the development of detailed rules following the Lamfalussy process. Under this process, Directives related to financial institutions are developed on the basis of a four-level approach intended to complement the principles of the Level I Framework Directive. Level 2 measures will be issued by the EC (delegated acts and/or implementing technical standards proposed by EIOPA), and Level 3 guidance will be issued by EIOPA. Solvency II, if implemented, will effect a full revision of the insurance industry’s solvency framework and prudential regime and will impose group-level supervision mechanisms. On 14 November 2013, the EC announced that an agreement had been reached between the European Parliament, the EC and the European Council on the ‘Omnibus II Directive’, which, once adopted, will amend certain aspects of the original Solvency II Directive. Notably, the proposal for the Omnibus II Directive contains important provisions that would allow the insurance industry to continue offering long-term guaranteed products (typically life insurance policies being paid out in a lump sum when the policyholder reaches a certain age or in the form of annuities) and ensure that insurance companies in general and life assurance companies in particular can match these long-term liabilities with investments in long-term assets, such as infrastructure projects. The European Parliament and the EC further agreed that the new rules of Solvency II (including the amendments introduced by the Omnibus II Directive) should apply as of 1 January 2016. In addition, the EC is continuing to develop the detailed rules that will complement the high-level principles of the Solvency II Directive, referred to as ‘implementing measures’. The implementing measures are not currently expected to be finalised until the Omnibus II Directive has entered into force. There continues to be uncertainty regarding the timeline and final outcome of this process, and we are unable to predict precisely how the regulations resulting from such initiatives and proposals could affect the insurance industry generally or our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity in particular. Significant efforts towards establishing a more cohesive and streamlined European supervisory framework, including the establishment of the European Systemic Risk Board and the EIOPA, may also affect the Group’s operations. Theoretical Solvency Criterion regulation in the Netherlands (also known as Solvency 1.5) In anticipation of the more risk-based approach under Solvency II, the Dutch legislator has, inter alia, subjected Dutch life insurance companies to the Theoretical Solvency Criterion (‘TSC’) (also known as Solvency 1.5), which reflects a minimum solvency margin required in certain stress scenarios. The TSC is calculated on an annual basis, and the scenario analysis is based on specific risks, including interest rate risk, equity risk, spread risk, property risk, longevity risk and mortality risk. The TSC applies to NN’s life insurance business in the Netherlands. If the solvency position of the relevant NN life insurance entity is below the TSC, DNB is entitled to require that a declaration of no objection be obtained from DNB before making any distributions of capital (including dividends) and reserves to the Company. In determining whether to give that approval, DNB must be satisfied that the life insurance company will have sufficient available regulatory capital for at least the following 12 months. Available regulatory capital is 12 Table of Contents determined on a market-based basis under the Dutch Financial Supervision Act and is therefore subject to fluctuations. There is a risk that the entities that conduct NN’s life insurance business may not meet the TSC and that DNB may not permit those entities to distribute dividends or reserves to the Company. This could affect the Company’s ability to meet its obligations to its creditors. In addition, the TSC may make it more difficult for NN to attract capital than those of its peers that are not subject to such similar requirements under their local laws. DNB has used, and may use, its discretionary powers to give instructions on the application of the Company’s funds to strengthen the capital position of its Dutch regulated subsidiaries to levels above minimum regulatory capital requirements, which has affected, and will affect, the ability of the Company to meet its obligations to its creditors. The TSC is also relatively new legislation and there is uncertainty as to how it will be interpreted and implemented by DNB, with the risk that DNB interprets and implements the requirements in a manner that is more onerous for NN Group than NN Group currently anticipates. EU Insurance Guarantee Scheme In July 2010, the EC released a white paper detailing the need to establish minimum levels of protection for consumers of life and non-life insurance products in the event that insurance companies in the EU with which they do business were to become insolvent. Though the mechanisms for providing any such protections remain under review by the EC, the European Parliament and the Member States, the EC may currently be considering providing this protection by (i) mandating the creation of (or harmonisation of existing) national-level insurance guarantee schemes and/or (ii) implementing an EU-wide insurance guarantee scheme, which such scheme(s) may require significant prefunding by insurance companies. As of 31 December 2013, no legislative proposal has been made at the EU level. However, the implementation of an insurance guarantee scheme requiring significant levels of prefunding (or, in the event that prefunding is not required, the occurrence of circumstances requiring the commencement of event-driven contributions) may have a material and adverse impact on the liquidity, financial condition and operations of companies engaged in the insurance business, including us. Single Supervisory Mechanism In October 2013, the European Council adopted a single supervisory mechanism (‘SSM’), to be composed of national competent authorities and the European Central Bank (‘ECB’), as part of the prospective EU banking union. In the SSM, a significant part of the prudential regulatory powers will be transferred from national authorities of the participating Member States to the ECB and that the ECB will assume direct responsibility for a significant part of the prudential supervision of ING Bank and its holding company, ING Group. On 23 October 2013, the ECB announced details of a comprehensive assessment of large banks to be conducted in cooperation with national supervisory authorities of Member States participating in the SSM. The assessment, which consists of a risk assessment, an asset quality review and a stress test, started in November 2013 and is expected to be conducted over a twelve-month period in preparation of the ECB assuming full responsibility for supervision as part of the SSM in November 2014. ING Bank is among the seven Dutch institutions to be covered by the assessment (out of more than 120 institutions overall). The SSM will create a new system of financial supervision for countries within the Eurozone, with the possibility of non-Eurozone Member States participating by means of close cooperation. While it is at this stage difficult to identify what exact impact the SSM will have on ING Bank and ING Group, it is expected that the SSM will have a significant impact on the way ING’s banking operations are supervised in Europe. Dodd-Frank Act On 21 July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (‘Dodd-Frank’ or ‘Dodd-Frank Act’) was signed into law in the U.S. The Dodd-Frank Act effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the U.S. and has implications for non-U.S. financial institutions with a U.S. presence, such as ING. Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly created government agencies and bodies to perform studies and promulgate a multitude of regulations implementing the law, a process that is underway and is expected to continue over the next few years. While some studies have already been completed and the rulemaking process is well underway, there continues to be significant uncertainty regarding the results of ongoing studies and the ultimate requirements of regulations that have not yet been adopted. We cannot predict with certainty how Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect the financial markets generally and impact the Group’s business, credit or financial strength ratings, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition or liquidity. Key aspects of Dodd-Frank that we have identified to date as possibly having an impact on the Group include: Title VII of Dodd-Frank creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets and certain market participants which could affect various activities of the Group and its subsidiaries. New margin and capital requirements for market participants that will be contained in final regulations to be adopted by the SEC and U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (‘CFTC’) could substantially increase the cost of hedging and related operations, affect the profitability of our products or their attractiveness to our customers, or cause us to alter our hedging strategy or change the composition of risks that we do not hedge. In addition, new position limits requirements for market participants that may be contained in final regulations to be adopted by the CFTC could limit the scope of hedging activity that is permitted for commercial end users, limiting their ability to utilize certain of our products, and could also limit the scope of our ability to provide derivatives products for our non-end user customers. 13 Table of Contents Pursuant to requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC and CFTC are currently considering whether stable value contracts should be regulated as ‘swap’ derivative contracts. In the event that stable value contracts become subject to such regulation, certain aspects of our business could be adversely impacted, including issuance of stable value contracts and management of assets pursuant to stable value mandates. Dodd-Frank established the Federal Insurance Office (‘FIO’) within the U.S. Department of the Treasury (‘Treasury Department’) to be headed by a director appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury Department. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office would perform various functions with respect to insurance, including participating in the FSOC’s decisions regarding insurers (potentially including the Group and its subsidiaries) to be designated for stricter regulation by the Federal Reserve. The FIO may recommend enhanced regulations to states. Dodd-Frank also established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (‘CFPB’) as an independent agency within the Federal Reserve to regulate consumer financial products and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes. The CFPB will have significant authority to implement and enforce federal consumer financial laws, including the new protections established under Dodd-Frank, as well as the authority to identify and prohibit unfair and deceptive acts and practices. In addition, the CFPB will have broad supervisory, examination and enforcement authority over certain consumer products, such as mortgage lending. Insurance products and services are not within the CFPB’s general jurisdiction, and broker-dealers and investment advisers are not subject to the CFPB’s jurisdiction when acting in their registered capacity. On December 10, 2013, various federal agencies approved a final rule implementing Section 619 of Dodd-Frank, commonly referred to as the ‘Volcker Rule’ and which places limitations and restrictions on the ability of U.S. FDIC insured depository institutions and non-U.S. banks with branches or agencies in the U.S. that become subject to the U.S. Bank Holding Company Act, as well as their affiliates, to engage in certain proprietary trading or sponsor and invest in private equity and hedge funds. Such organisations will have until 21 July 2015 to comply fully with most requirements of the Volcker Rule, with an important exception for organisations with significant trading activities, which will be required to report information on their trading activities beginning in July 2014. In the event that we or one of our affiliates becomes subject to the Volcker Rule, our investment activities could be so restricted. It is expected that we will experience significant additional compliance and operational costs and may be prohibited from engaging in certain activities we currently conduct if the Volcker Rule becomes applicable to us and our affiliates. For instance, ING Group’s wholly owned subsidiary, ING Bank, may from time to time consider whether to establish a branch office in the U.S. If ING Bank were to establish a U.S. branch, we would be subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve under various laws and various restrictions on our activities under those laws, including the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the International Banking Act of 1978, and, as a consequence, such supervision and regulation, including such restrictions on activities could materially impact our operations. These would include, among others, the Volcker Rule and heightened supervisory requirements and prudential standards. Dodd-Frank also includes various securities law reforms that may affect the Group’s business practices and the liabilities and/or exposures associated therewith, including a provision intended to authorise the SEC to impose on broker-dealers fiduciary duties to their customers, as applies to investment advisers under existing law, which new standard could potentially expose certain of ING’s U.S. broker-dealers to increased risk of SEC enforcement actions and liability. In 2011, the SEC staff released a study on this issue, and members of the SEC’s Investor Advisory Committee voted in November 2013 to recommend the proposal implementing a uniform fiduciary standard for most brokers and registered investment advisers to the SEC. Although the full impact of Dodd-Frank cannot be determined until the various studies mandated by the law are conducted and regulations are adopted and implemented, many of the legislation’s requirements could have profound and/or adverse consequences for the financial services industry, including for us. Dodd-Frank could make it more expensive for us to conduct business, require us to make changes to our business model or satisfy increased capital requirements, subject us to greater regulatory scrutiny or to potential increases in whistleblower claims in light of the increased awards available to whistleblowers under Dodd-Frank and have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act Under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (‘FATCA’), U.S. federal tax legislation passed in 2010, a 30% withholding tax will be imposed on ‘withholdable payments’ made to non-U.S. financial institutions (including non-U.S. investment funds and certain other non-U.S. financial entities) that fail (or, in some cases, that have 50% affiliates which are also non-U.S. financial institutions that fail) to provide certain information regarding their U.S. accountholders and/or certain U.S. investors (such U.S. accountholders and U.S. investors, ‘U.S. accountholders’) to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (‘IRS’). For non-U.S. financial institutions that fail to comply, this withholding will generally apply without regard to whether the beneficial owner of a withholdable payment is a U.S. person or would otherwise be entitled to an exemption from U.S. federal withholding tax. ‘Withholdable payments’ generally include, among other items, payments of U.S.-source interest and dividends and the gross proceeds from the sale 14 Table of Contents or other disposition of property that may produce U.S.-source interest and dividends. Furthermore, FATCA may also impose withholding on non-U.S. source payments by non-U.S. financial institutions that comply with FATCA to non-U.S. financial institutions that fail to comply with FATCA. This withholding will take effect on a ‘phased’ schedule, starting in July 2014 with withholding on non-U.S. source payments by non-U.S. financial institutions to start no earlier than January 2017. In general, non-publicly traded debt and equity interests in investment vehicles will be treated as ‘accounts’ and subject to these reporting requirements. In addition, certain insurance policies and annuities are considered accounts for these purposes. Some countries, including the Netherlands, have entered into, and other countries are expected to enter into, agreements (‘intergovernmental agreements’ or ‘IGAs’) with the United States to facilitate the type of information reporting required under FATCA. While the existence of IGAs will not eliminate the risk of the withholding described above, these agreements are expected to reduce that risk for financial institutions and investors in countries that have entered into IGAs. IGAs will often require financial institutions in those countries to report some information on their U.S. accountholders to the taxing authorities of those countries, who will then pass the information to the IRS. The Group closely monitors all present and new legislation that is or will be applicable for its organisation, and is currently investigating all implications of FATCA and legislation of countries that have entered into IGAs. While investigating these implications, the Group is and will be in close contact with all of its stakeholders, including its peers and financial industry representative organisations. The Group intends to take all necessary steps to comply with FATCA (including entering into such agreements with the U.S. tax authorities as may be required), in accordance with the time frame set by the U.S. tax authorities. However, if the Group cannot enter into such agreements or satisfy the requirements thereunder (including as a result of local laws in non-IGA countries prohibiting information-sharing with the IRS, as a result of contracts or local laws prohibiting withholding on certain payments to accountholders, policyholders, annuitants or other investors, or as a result of the failure of accountholders, policyholders, annuitants or other investors to provide requested information), certain payments to the Group may be subject to withholding under FATCA. The possibility of such withholding and the need for accountholders, policyholders, annuitants and investors to provide certain information may adversely affect the sales of certain of the Group’s products. In addition, entering into agreements with the IRS and compliance with the terms of such agreements and with FATCA any regulations or other guidance promulgated thereunder or any legislation promulgated under an IGA may substantially increase the Group’s compliance costs. Because legislation and regulations implementing FATCA and the IGAs remain under development, the future impact of this law on the Group is uncertain. Bank Recovery and Resolution Regimes In June 2012, the ‘Intervention Act’ (Wet bijzondere maatregelen financiële ondernemingen) came into force in the Netherlands, with retroactive effect from 20 January 2012. The Intervention Act mainly amends the Dutch Financial Supervision Act and the Dutch Insolvency Act and allows Dutch authorities to take certain actions when banks and insurers fail and cannot be wound up under ordinary insolvency rules due to concerns regarding the stability of the overall financial system. It is composed of two categories of measures. The first category of measures can be applied if a bank or insurer experiences serious financial problems and includes measures related to the timely and efficient liquidation of failing banks and insurers. This set gives the DNB the power to transfer customer deposits (only in the case of banks), assets and/or liabilities other than deposits and issued shares of an entity to third parties or to a bridge bank if the DNB deems that, in respect of the relevant bank or insurance company, there are signs of an adverse development with respect to its funds, solvency, liquidity or technical provisions and it can be reasonably foreseen that such development will not be sufficiently or timely reversed. The DNB was also granted the power to influence the internal decision-making of failing institutions through the appointment of an ‘undisclosed administrator’. The second category of measures can be applied if the stability of the financial system is in serious and immediate danger as a result of the situation of a Dutch financial institution and includes measures intended to safeguard the stability of the financial system as a whole. This set of measures grants the authority to the Minister of Finance to take immediate measures or proceed to expropriation of assets of or shares in the capital of failing financial institutions. For example, on 1 February 2013, the Dutch State nationalised the SNS Reaal bank and insurance group (‘SNS Reaal’) by expropriating shares, Core Tier 1 securities and other subordinated debts issued by SNS Reaal. The Dutch Ministry of Finance has stated that it will impose in 2014 an aggregate EUR 1 billion one-time levy on Dutch banks, including ING Bank, to share the costs of the SNS Reaal nationalisation. This resulted in a charge of EUR 304 million for ING Bank, to be paid in the first three quarters of 2014. The Intervention Act also includes measures that limit the ability of counterparties to exercise their rights after any of the measures mentioned above has been put into place, with certain exceptions. Within the context of the resolution tools provided in the Intervention Act, holders of debt securities of a bank subject to resolution could also be affected by issuer substitution or replacement, transfer of debt, expropriation, modification of terms and/or suspension or termination of listings. The Intervention Act will need to be amended following the implementation of the ‘Recovery and Resolution Directive’. This is a draft legislative proposal aimed at harmonising national rules on bank recovery and resolution and on which the European Council and the European Parliament reached a political agreement in December 2013. 15 Table of Contents The Recovery and Resolution Directive includes, among other things, the obligation for institutions to draw up a recovery plan and the obligation for resolution authorities in the Member States to draw up a resolution plan, the resolution authorities’ power to take early intervention measures and the establishment of a European system of financing arrangements. The Recovery and Resolution Directive confers extensive resolution powers to the resolution authorities, including the power to require the sale of (part of a) business, to establish a bridge institution, to separate assets and to take bail-in measures. The draft Recovery and Resolution Directive will need to be formally adopted by the European Council and the European Parliament and is expected to enter into force on 1 January 2015. The stated aim of the Recovery and Resolution Directive is to provide supervisory authorities, including the relevant Dutch resolution authority, with common tools and powers to address banking crises pre-emptively in order to safeguard financial stability and minimise taxpayers’ exposure to losses. Among the powers proposed to be granted to supervisory authorities under the Recovery and Resolution Directive include, among others, the introduction of a statutory ‘write-down and conversion’ power and a ‘bail-in’ power, which would give the relevant Dutch resolution authority the power to (i) cancel existing shares and/or dilute existing shareholders by converting relevant capital instruments or eligible liabilities into shares of the surviving entity and (ii) cancel all or a portion of the principal amount of, or interest on, certain unsecured liabilities (which could include certain securities that have been or will be issued by ING) of a failing financial institution and/or to convert certain debt claims (which could include certain securities that have been or will be issued by ING) into another security, including ordinary shares of the surviving group entity, if any. It is currently contemplated that the majority of measures (including the write-down and conversion powers relating to Tier 1 capital instruments and Tier 2 capital instruments) set out in the draft Recovery and Resolution Directive will be implemented with effect from 1 January 2015, with the bail-in power for other eligible liabilities (which could include any securities that have been issued or will be issued by ING, that are not Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital instruments) expected to be introduced by 1 January 2016. However, the draft Recovery and Resolution Directive is not in final form, and changes could be made to it in the course of the final legislative process and anticipated implementation dates could change. In addition to a ‘write-down and conversion’ power and a ‘bail-in’ power, the powers currently proposed to be granted to the relevant Dutch resolution authority under the draft Recovery and Resolution Directive include the two categories of measures introduced by the Intervention Act, as described above. In addition, the draft Recovery and Resolution Directive proposes, among the broader powers proposed to be granted to the relevant resolution authority, to provide powers to the relevant resolution authority to amend the maturity date and/or any interest payment date of debt instruments or other eligible liabilities of the relevant financial institution and/or impose a temporary suspension of payments. There remains uncertainty regarding the ultimate nature and scope of these powers and, when implemented, how they would affect us and the securities that have been issued or will be issued by us. Accordingly, it is not yet possible to assess the full impact of the draft Recovery and Resolution Directive on ING and on holders of any securities issued or to be issued by ING, and there can be no assurance that, once it is implemented, the manner in which it is implemented or the taking of any actions by the relevant Dutch resolution authority currently contemplated in the draft Recovery and Resolution Directive would not adversely affect the rights of holders of the securities issued or to be issued by ING, the price or value of an investment in such securities and/or ING’s ability to satisfy its obligations under such securities. Further, the CRD IV Regulation states that if the Recovery and Resolution Directive is not adopted by 31 December 2015, the EC should review and report whether the CRD IV Regulation should be amended so as to include write-down and conversion powers in order to ensure that relevant capital instruments fully absorb losses at the point of non-viability of the issuing institution and before any other resolution action is taken. There is a risk that such an amendment would result in any securities issued or to be issued by ING that constitute relevant capital instruments being used to absorb losses on the occurrence of a non-viability event. Finally, as part of the road towards a full banking union, on 10 July 2013, the EC published a draft Regulation for a Single Resolution Mechanism (‘SRM’) with the aim to have a Single Resolution Board to be responsible for key decisions on how a bank subject to SSM supervision is to be resolved if a bank has irreversible financial difficulties and cannot be wound up under normal insolvency proceedings without destabilizing the financial system. The SRM is expected to enter into force in 2015. There are certain differences between the provisions of the Intervention Act, the Recovery and Resolution Directive proposal and the SRM Regulation proposal, which may further bring future changes to the law. We are unable to predict what specific effects the Intervention Act and the future adoption of the Recovery and Resolution Directive and the SRM Regulation may have on the financial system generally, our counterparties, holders of securities issued by or to be issued by us, or on us, our operations or our financial position. ING Bank has set up an all-encompassing recovery planning process to enhance its readiness and decisiveness to tackle financial crises on its own strength. ING Bank’s recovery plan has been submitted to and approved by the DNB in November 2012 and is updated at least annually. Furthermore during 2013, ING Bank submitted information on the basis of which the Dutch Resolution Authorities will be able to develop a Resolution Plan. 16 Table of Contents Financial Stability Board In addition to the adoption of the foregoing measures, regulators and lawmakers around the world are actively reviewing the causes of the financial crisis and exploring steps to avoid similar problems in the future. In many respects, this work is being led by the FSB, consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations. The G20 and the FSB have issued a series of papers and recommendations intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly companies that are members of large and complex financial groups, should be regulated. These proposals address such issues as financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, systemic economic risk, corporate governance, including executive compensation, and a host of related issues associated with responses to the financial crisis. The lawmakers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which the Group’s subsidiaries conduct business have already begun introducing legislative and regulatory changes consistent with G20 and FSB recommendations, and the potential impact of such changes on our business, results of operations and financial condition remains unclear. Additional Governmental Measures Governments in the Netherlands and abroad have also intervened over the past few years on an unprecedented scale, responding to stresses experienced in the global financial markets. Some of the measures adopted subject us and other institutions for which they were designed to additional restrictions, oversight or costs. Restrictions related to the Core Tier 1 Securities and the IABF (together, the ‘Dutch State Transactions’) and the Restructuring Plan are further described in — ‘Risks related to the Restructuring Plan’. Sections 382 and 383 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, as amended, operate as anti-abuse rules, the general purpose of which is to prevent trafficking in tax losses and credits, but which can apply without regard to whether a ‘loss trafficking’ transaction occurs or is intended. These rules are triggered when an ‘ownership change’ — generally defined as when the ownership of a company, or its parent, changes by more than 50% (measured by value) on a cumulative basis in any three-year period — occurs. If triggered, the amount of the taxable income for any post-change year which may be offset by a pre-change loss is subject to an annual limitation. As of 31 December 2013, we believe that our U.S. subsidiaries have not had an ‘ownership change’ for purposes of Sections 382 and 383. However, this determination is subject to uncertainties and is based on various assumptions. Future increases of capital or other changes in ownership may adversely affect our cumulative ownership, and could trigger an ‘ownership change’, which could limit the ability of our U.S. subsidiaries to use tax attributes, and could correspondingly decrease the value of these attributes. In February 2013, the EC adopted a proposal setting out the details of the financial transaction tax, which mirrors the scope of its original proposal of September 2011, to be levied on transactions in financial instruments by financial institutions if at least one of the parties to the transaction is located in the financial transaction tax zone (‘FTT-zone’), currently limited to 11 participating Member States (Austria, Belgium, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain). The initial proposal foresaw the financial transaction tax for the 11 participating Member States entering into effect on 1 January 2014, which would have then required us to pay a tax on transactions in financial instruments with parties (including Group affiliates) located in such FTT-zone. However, in November 2013, it was agreed among the representatives of the 11 Member States that the tax would not come into force until 2015 as participating governments remain divided on key details of the levy. The actual implementation date would thus depend on the future approval by the European Council and consultation of other EU institutions, and the subsequent transposition into local law. Depending on its final form, the introduction of an FTT in the Netherlands or outside the Netherlands could have substantial adverse effect on ING’s business and results. As of 1 October 2012, banks that are active in the Netherlands are subject to bank tax pursuant to a tax regulation that also includes measures to moderate bonuses awarded to executives at such banks. This tax results in increased taxes on ING’s Banking operations, which could negatively impact our operations, financial condition and liquidity. In May 2012, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (‘IAIS’), of which the DNB is a member, published a proposed assessment methodology for designating global systemically important insurers (‘G-SIIs’), as part of the global initiative to identify G-SIFIs. Insurers identified as G-SIIs would be subject to additional policy measures. The FSB published an initial list of G-SIIs in July 2013, which did not include NN Group. However, the group of G-SIIs is expected to be updated annually and published by the FSB each November based on new data, starting from November 2014, and there can be no assurance that we will be excluded from it in the future. The proposed policy measures, which are still under development and discussion and which would need to be implemented by legislation or regulation in relevant jurisdictions, include higher capital requirements (both for non-traditional and non-insurance activities and for G-SIIs overall), enhanced supervision (including more detailed and frequent reporting, removal of barriers to orderly resolution of the G-SII and reduction of the G-SII’s systemic risk over time), as well as additional measures to improve the degree of self-sufficiency of a G-SII’s different business segments (including separate legal structures for traditional insurance and non-traditional or non-insurance activities, and restrictions on intercompany subsidies). If ING were identified as a G-SII in the future, compliance costs will increase and its competitive position relative to other life insurers that were not designated as G-SIIs may 17 Table of Contents be adversely affected. See ‘Item 4. Information on the Company — Recent Developments — Important changes in Regulation and Supervision — Global systemically important insurers (G-SIIs). Continued risk of resurgence of turbulence and ongoing volatility in the financial markets and the economy generally have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations. General Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. Concerns over the slow economic recovery, the European sovereign debt crisis, the ability of certain countries to remain in the Eurozone, unemployment, the availability and cost of credit, credit spreads, the recent shutdown of the U.S. government and its plan to phase out monetary asset purchases (‘tapering’), the level of U.S. national debt and the U.S. housing market, inflation levels, energy costs and geopolitical issues all have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets in recent years. While certain of such conditions have improved during the period between 2011 and 2013, these conditions have generally resulted in greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and overall shortage of liquidity and tightening of financial markets throughout the world. In addition, prices for many types of asset-backed securities and other structured products have significantly deteriorated. These concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade and especially the sovereign debt of some EEA countries and the U.S., the international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes, such as public and private equity, and real estate sectors. As a result of these and other factors, sovereign governments across the globe, including in regions where the Group operates, have also experienced budgetary and other financial difficulties, which have resulted in austerity measures, downgrades in credit rating by credit agencies, planned or implemented bail-out measures and, on occasion, civil unrest (for further details regarding sovereign debt concerns, see ‘— U.S. Sovereign Credit Rating’ and ‘— European Sovereign Debt Crisis’ below). As a result, the market for fixed income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. In addition, the confluence of these and other factors has resulted in volatile foreign exchange markets. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to dispose of. International equity markets have also continued to experience heightened volatility and turmoil, with issuers, including ourselves, that have exposure to the real estate, mortgage, private equity and credit markets particularly affected. These events and market upheavals, including high levels of volatility, have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and extensive real estate activities around the world. In addition, the confidence of customers in financial institutions is being tested. Consumer confidence in financial institutions may, for example, decrease due to our or our competitors’ failure to communicate to customers the terms of, and the benefits to customers of, complex or high-fee financial products. Reduced confidence could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations, including through an increase of lapses or surrenders of policies and withdrawal of deposits. Because a significant percentage of our customer deposit base is originated via Internet banking, a loss of customer confidence may result in a rapid withdrawal of deposits over the Internet. As a result of the ongoing and unprecedented volatility in the global financial markets since 2007, we incurred in past years substantial negative revaluations and impairments on our investment portfolio, which have impacted our shareholders’ equity and earnings. During 2011, 2012 and 2013, the revaluation reserve position improved substantially, positively impacting shareholders’ equity. Although we believe that, as of December 31, 2013, reserves for insurance liabilities were generally adequate at the Group, inadequacies in certain product areas have developed. The aforementioned developments in the global financial markets and, in particular, decreasing interest rates resulted in a decrease in our overall reserves adequacy and may further continue to produce reserves inadequacies in the future, potentially leading to reserve strengthening. The aforementioned impacts have arisen primarily as a result of valuation and impairment issues arising in connection with our investments in real estate (both in and outside the U.S.) and private equity, exposures to European sovereign debt and to U.S. mortgage-related structured investment products, including sub-prime and ‘Alt-A’ residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities, collateralised debt obligations and collateralised loan obligations, monoline insurer guarantees, private equity and other investments. In many cases, the markets for investments and instruments have been and remain highly illiquid, and issues relating to counterparty credit ratings and other factors have exacerbated pricing and valuation uncertainties. Valuation of such investments and instruments is a complex process involving the consideration of market transactions, pricing models, management judgment and other factors, and is also impacted by external factors, such as underlying mortgage default rates, interest rates, rating agency actions and property valuations. Although we continue to monitor our exposures, there can be no assurance that we will not experience further negative impacts to our shareholders’ equity or profit and loss accounts in future periods. 18 Table of Contents U.S. Sovereign Credit Rating In 2011, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (‘S&P’) lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from AAA to AA+. Although other ratings agencies have not similarly lowered the long-term sovereign credit rating of the U.S., they have put that credit rating on review. Amid the lingering uncertainty over the long-term outlook for the fiscal position and the future economic performance of the U.S. within the global economy and potential future budgetary restrictions in the U.S., as illustrated by the recent budget negotiations and partial shutdown of the U.S. government in October 2013, there continues to be a perceived risk of a future sovereign credit ratings downgrade of the U.S. government, including the rating of U.S. Treasury securities. On 15 October 2013, Fitch Ratings placed the U.S.’s AAA credit rating under ‘rating watch negative’ in response to the crisis, a step that would precede an actual downgrade. It is foreseeable that the ratings and perceived creditworthiness of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by institutions, agencies or instrumentalities directly linked to the U.S. government could also be correspondingly affected by any such downgrade. Instruments of this nature are key assets on the balance sheets of financial institutions and are widely used as collateral by financial institutions to meet their day-to-day cash flows in the short-term debt market. The impact of any further downgrades to the sovereign credit rating of the U.S. government or a default by the U.S. government to satisfy its debt obligations likely would create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which would weigh heavily on the global financial system and could consequently result in a significant adverse impact to the Group. European Sovereign Debt Crisis In 2010, a financial crisis emerged in Europe, triggered by high budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, which created concerns about the ability of these EU ‘peripheral’ Member States to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. Significant concerns regarding the sovereign debt of these countries, as well as certain other countries of the ‘core’ EU Member States are ongoing and, in some cases, have required countries to obtain emergency financing. These concerns impacted financial markets and resulted in high and volatile bond yields on the sovereign debt of many EU nations. If these or other countries require additional financial support or if sovereign credit ratings continue to decline, yields on the sovereign debt of certain countries may continue to increase, the cost of borrowing may increase and credit may become more limited. Despite assistance packages to Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Cyprus, the creation of a European Financial Stability Facility as a temporary rescue mechanism in May 2010, the approval of a further bail-out of Greece by the relevant government and monetary bodies of the Eurozone and the International Monetary Fund in March 2012, and the establishment of the European Stability Mechanism in October 2012 (which provided its first financial assistance in February 2013 for the recapitalisation of Spain’s banking sector), uncertainty over the outcome of the EU governments’ financial support programs and concerns regarding sovereign finances persisted during the course of 2013. Market concerns over the direct and indirect exposure of European banks and insurers to the EU sovereign debt further resulted in a widening of credit spreads and increased costs of funding for some European financial institutions. In December 2011, European leaders agreed to implement steps (and continue to meet regularly to review, amend and supplement such steps) to encourage greater long-term fiscal responsibility on the part of the individual Member States and bolster market confidence in the Euro and European sovereign debt, and the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance (‘Fiscal Treaty’) was signed by 25 EU Member States in March 2012 and entered into force on 1 January 2013. However, the Fiscal Treaty needs to be incorporated into the existing EU treaties, which is expected to take many years, and, even if such steps are implemented, there is no guarantee that they will ultimately and finally resolve uncertainties regarding the ability of Eurozone states to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. Further, despite such long-term structural adjustments and improvements being proposed and implemented, the future of the Euro in its current form, and with its current membership, remains uncertain. The financial turmoil in Europe continues to be a threat to global capital markets and remains a challenge to global financial stability. Risks and ongoing concerns about the debt crisis in Europe, as well as the possible default by, or exit from, the Eurozone of one or more Member States and/or the replacement of the Euro by one or more successor currencies, could have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these European countries and the financial condition of European and other financial institutions, including us. Additionally, the possibility of capital market volatility spreading through a highly integrated and interdependent banking system remains elevated. In the event of any default or similar event with respect to a sovereign issuer, some financial institutions may suffer significant losses, following which they would require additional capital, and such capital may not be available. Market and economic disruptions stemming from the crisis in Europe have affected, and may continue to affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence of, and default on, consumer debt and home prices, among other factors. There can be no assurance that the market disruptions in Europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain government and financial institutions, will not spread, nor can there be any assurance that future assistance packages will be available or, even if provided, will be sufficient to stabilise the affected countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere. To the extent uncertainty regarding the economic recovery continues to negatively impact consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, our business and results of operations could be significantly and adversely impacted. In addition, the possible exit from the Eurozone of one or more European states and/or the replacement of the Euro by one or more successor currencies could create significant uncertainties regarding the enforceability and valuation of Euro-denominated contracts to which we (or our counterparties) are a party and thereby materially and adversely affect our and/or our 19 Table of Contents counterparties’ liquidity, financial condition and operations. Such uncertainties may include the risk that (i) an obligation that was expected to be paid in Euros is redenominated into a new currency (which may not be easily converted into other currencies without incurring significant cost), (ii) currencies in some Member States may depreciate relative to others, (iii) former Eurozone Member States may impose capital controls that would make it complicated or illegal to move capital out of such countries, and/or (iv) some courts (in particular, courts in countries that have left the Eurozone) may not recognise and/or enforce claims denominated in Euros (and/or in any replacement currency). The possible exit from the Eurozone of one or more Member States and/or the replacement of the Euro by one or more successor currencies could also cause other significant market dislocations and lead to other adverse economic and operational impacts that are inherently difficult to predict or evaluate, and otherwise have potentially materially adverse impacts on us and our counterparties, including our depositors, lenders, borrowers and other customers. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, reduced business and consumer confidence and continued high unemployment, have negatively affected the economy of main geographic regions where we conduct our business. Our results of operations, liquidity position, capital position, investment portfolio and AUM are exposed to these risks and may be adversely affected as a result. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the recent global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. On 13 January 2012, S&P proceeded to downgrade the credit ratings of France, Austria, Italy, Spain, Portugal and a handful of other EEA states (while reaffirming the credit ratings of Germany, the Netherlands, Ireland and other EEA states and changed the outlook to ‘negative’ for 15 Eurozone countries). Further related downgrades of European sovereign ratings and of corporate ratings have occurred since that date, including the recent downgrade of the Netherland’s sovereign debt rating from AAA to AA+ by S&P on 29 November 2013. These announcements, as well as any future changes are of high importance to the Group, because they affect our financing costs and, as a result, our profitability. Because we operate in highly competitive markets, including our home market, we may not be able to increase or maintain our market share, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. There is substantial competition in the Netherlands and the other countries in which we do business for the types of insurance, commercial banking, investment banking, asset management and other products and services we provide. Customer loyalty and retention can be influenced by a number of factors, including brand recognition, reputation, relative service levels, investment performance of our products, the prices and attributes of products and services, scope of distribution, perceived financial strength, credit ratings and actions taken by competitors. A decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely impact our ability to maintain or further increase our market share, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Such competition is most pronounced in our more mature markets of the Netherlands, Belgium, the rest of Western Europe, the U.S. and Australia. In recent years, however, competition in emerging markets, such as Latin America, Asia and Central and Eastern Europe, has also increased as large financial services companies from more developed countries have sought to establish themselves in markets which are perceived to offer higher growth potential, and as local institutions have become more sophisticated and competitive and proceeded to form alliances, mergers or strategic relationships with our competitors. The Netherlands and the U.S. are our largest markets. Our main competitors in the banking sector in the Netherlands are ABN AMRO Bank and Rabobank. Our main competitors in the insurance sector in the Netherlands are Achmea, ASR, Delta Lloyd and Aegon Competition could also increase due to new entrants in the markets that may have new operating models that are not burdened by potentially costly legacy operations. Increasing competition in these or any of our other markets may significantly impact our results if we are unable to match the products and services offered by our competitors. Future economic turmoil may accelerate additional consolidation activity. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. These developments could result in our competitors gaining greater access to capital and liquidity, expanding their ranges of products and services, or gaining geographic diversity. We may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors in the event that some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. In addition, under the Restructuring Plan, we were required to agree to certain restrictions imposed by the EC, including with respect to our price leadership in EU banking markets and our ability to make acquisitions of financial institutions and other businesses. See ‘Risks related to the Restructuring Plan — The limitations required by the EC on our ability to compete and to make acquisitions or call certain debt instruments could materially impact the Group’. Furthermore, if our financial strength and credit ratings are lower than those of our competitors, we may experience increased surrenders and/or a significant decline in sales of insurance and annuities products. Failure to effectively compete within the industry may thus have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The inability of counterparties to meet their financial obligations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. General Third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets may not pay or perform under their obligations. These parties include the issuers and guarantors (including sovereigns) of securities we hold, borrowers under loans originated, reinsurers, customers, trading counterparties, securities lending and repurchase counterparties, 20 Table of Contents counterparties under swaps, credit default and other derivative contracts, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries. Defaults by one or more of these parties on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, downturns in the economy or real estate values, operational failure or other factors, or even rumours about potential defaults by one or more of these parties or regarding a severe distress of the financial services industry generally, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In light of experiences with significant constraints on liquidity and the high cost of funds in the interbank lending market, and given the high level of interdependence between financial institutions, we are and will continue to be subject to the risk of deterioration of the commercial and financial soundness, or perceived soundness, of sovereigns and other financial services institutions. This is particularly relevant to our franchise as an important and large counterparty in equity, fixed income and foreign exchange markets, including related derivatives, which would be then exposed to concentration risk. We routinely execute a high volume of transactions, such as unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions and equity investments with counterparties and customers in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial and investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, insurance companies, institutional clients, futures clearing merchants, swap dealers, and other institutions, resulting in large periodic settlement amounts, which may result in our having significant credit exposure to one or more of such counterparties or customers. As a result, we face concentration risk with respect to liabilities or amounts we expect to collect from specific counterparties and customers. We are exposed to increased counterparty risk as a result of recent financial institution failures and weakness and will continue to be exposed to the risk of loss if counterparty financial institutions fail or are otherwise unable to meet their obligations. A default by, or even concerns about the creditworthiness of, one or more of these counterparties or customers or other financial services institutions could therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations or liquidity. With respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realised, or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. We also have exposure to a number of financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions and equity investments. For example, we hold certain hybrid regulatory capital instruments issued by financial institutions which permit the issuer to defer coupon payments on the occurrence of certain events or at their option. The EC has indicated that, in certain circumstances, it may require these financial institutions to defer payment. If this were to happen, we expect that such instruments may experience ratings downgrades and/or a drop in value and we may have to treat them as impaired, which could result in significant losses. There is no assurance that losses on, or impairments to the carrying value of, these assets would not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we are subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. The deterioration or perceived deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our income and risk weighting, leading to increased capital requirements. While in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. Our credit risk may also be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realised or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure that is due to us, which is most likely to occur during periods of illiquidity and depressed asset valuations, such as those experienced during the recent financial crisis. The termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights under such contracts. Bankruptcies, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral tend to increase in times of market stress and illiquidity. Any of these developments or losses could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or prospects. Reinsurers Our insurance operations have bought protection for risks that exceed certain risk tolerance levels set for both our life and non-life businesses. This protection is bought through reinsurance arrangements in order to reduce possible losses. However, we remain liable to the underlying policyholders, even if the reinsurer defaults on its obligations. Because in most cases we must pay policyholders first before collecting the amount from the reinsurer, we are subject to credit risk with respect to each reinsurer for all such amounts. The inability or unwillingness of any one of these reinsurers to meet its financial obligations to us, or the insolvency of our reinsurers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Market conditions observed over the past few years may increase the risk of loans being impaired. We are exposed to declining property values on the collateral supporting residential and commercial real estate lending. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers (including sovereigns) may not repay their loans according to their contractual terms and that the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient. We may continue 21 Table of Contents to see adverse changes in the credit quality of our borrowers and counterparties, for example, as a result of their inability to refinance their indebtedness, with increasing delinquencies, defaults and insolvencies across a range of sectors. This may lead to impairment charges on loans and other assets, higher costs and additions to loan loss provisions. A significant increase in the size of our provision for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Economic and other factors could lead to further contraction in the residential mortgage and commercial lending market and to further decreases in residential and commercial property prices, which could generate substantial increases in impairment losses. Interest rate volatility and other interest rate changes may adversely affect our profitability. Changes in prevailing interest rates may negatively affect our business, including the level of net interest revenue we earn, and for our banking business, the levels of deposits and the demand for loans. In a period of changing interest rates, interest expense may increase and interest credited to policyholders may change at different rates than the interest earned on assets. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease net interest revenue. Changes in the interest rates may negatively affect the value of our assets and our ability to realise gains or avoid losses from the sale of those assets, all of which also ultimately affect earnings and capital. In addition, our insurance and annuity products and certain of our retirement and investment products are sensitive to inflation rate fluctuations. A sustained increase in the inflation rate in our principal markets may also negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, a sustained increase in the inflation rate may result in an increase in nominal market interest rates. A failure to accurately anticipate higher inflation and factor it into our product pricing assumptions may result in mispricing of our products, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Declining interest rates or a prolonged period of low interest rates may result in: - life insurance and annuity products being relatively more attractive to consumers due to minimum guarantees with respect to such products that are frequently mandated by regulators; - increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features; - a higher percentage of insurance and annuity contracts remaining in force from year to year than we anticipated in our pricing, potentially resulting in greater claims costs than we expected and creating asset-liability cash flow mismatches; - additional provisions for guarantees included in life insurance and annuity contracts, as the guarantees become more valuable to policyholders; - lower investment earnings over time on existing investments, as premiums and reinvestments will earn lower rates; - reserve strengthening by affecting the results of our reserve adequacy testing in extreme cases of low interest rates; - potential impact on the solvency level under Solvency 1.5; - higher prepayment or redemption of mortgages and fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolios as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates. Consequently, we may be required to reinvest the proceeds in securities bearing lower interest rates; - lower profitability as the result of a decrease in the spread between interest rates charged to policyholders and savings/other liabilities and returns on our investment portfolios; - higher costs for certain derivative instruments that may be used to hedge certain of our product risks; and/or - lower profitability, since we may not be able to fully track the decline in interest rates in our savings rate. Accordingly, during periods of declining interest rates or a prolonged period of low interest rates, our profitability may suffer as the result of a decrease in the spread between interest rates credited to insurance policyholders and annuity contract owners. An extended period of declining interest rates or a prolonged period of low interest rates may also cause us to change our long-term view of the interest rates that we can earn on our investments. In addition, certain statutory capital and reserve requirements are based on formulas and models that consider interest rates, and an extended period of low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold and the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves. Rapidly increasing interest rates may result in: - a decrease in the demand for loans; - an increase in policy loans, and withdrawals from and/or surrenders of life insurance policies and fixed annuity contracts as policyholders choose to forego insurance protection and seek higher investment returns. Obtaining cash to satisfy these obligations may require us to liquidate fixed maturity investments at a time when market prices for those assets are depressed because of increases in interest rates. This may result in realised investment losses. Regardless of whether we realise an investment loss, these cash payments would result in a decrease in total invested assets, and may decrease our net income. Premature withdrawals may also cause us to accelerate amortisation of deferred policy acquisition costs, which would also reduce our net income; 22 Table of Contents - prepayment losses if prepayment rates are lower than expected or if interest rates increase too rapidly to adjust the accompanying hedges; - higher interest rates to be paid on debt securities that we have issued or may issue on the financial markets from time to time to finance our operations and on savings/other liabilities, which would increase our interest expenses and reduce our results of operations; - a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio by, for example, decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities within our investment portfolio; - (depending on the position) a significant collateral posting requirement associated with our interest rate hedge programs, which could materially and adversely affect liquidity; and/or - decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds. We may incur losses due to failures of banks falling under the scope of state compensation schemes. In the Netherlands and other jurisdictions, deposit guarantee schemes and similar funds (‘Compensation Schemes’) have been implemented from which compensation may become payable to customers of financial services firms in the event the financial service firm is unable to pay, or unlikely to pay, claims against it. In many jurisdictions in which we operate, these Compensation Schemes are funded, directly or indirectly, by financial services firms which operate and/or are licensed in the relevant jurisdiction. ING Bank is a participant in the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme, which guarantees an amount of EUR 100,000 per person per bank (regardless of the number of accounts held). The costs involved with making compensation payments under the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme are allocated among the participating banks by the DNB, based on an allocation key related to their market shares with respect to the deposits protected by the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme. Given our size, we may incur significant compensation payments to be made under the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme, which we may be unable to recover from the bankrupt estate. Such costs and the associated costs to be borne by us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As of 1 July 2015, the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme is to change from an ex-post scheme, where we would have contributed after the failure of a firm, to an ex-ante scheme where we will pay quarterly risk-weighted contributions into a fund for the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme. The fund is to grow to a target size of 1% of all deposits guaranteed under the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme. The target size would have to be reached in 15 years. However, in December 2013, EU Member States and the European Parliament agreed on reforms to the EU Directive on Deposit Guarantee Scheme. Main characteristics include an ex-ante funding of up to 0.8% of the banking sector’s insured deposits for payouts, to be built up in 10 years, but ultimate contributions will be risk-based. It is yet unclear what this proposal will mean for the proposed Dutch changes. The costs associated with potential future ex-ante contributions are today unknown and will depend on the methodology used to calculate risk-weighting, but, given our size, may be significant. See also ‘— We operate in highly regulated industries. Changes in laws and/or regulations governing financial services or financial institutions or the application of such laws and/or regulations governing our business may reduce our profitability — Bank Recovery and Resolution Regimes’. Our business may be negatively affected by a sustained increase in inflation. A sustained increase in the inflation rate in our principal markets would have multiple impacts on us and may negatively affect our business, solvency position and results of operations. For example, a sustained increase in the inflation rate may result in an increase in market interest rates, which may: (1) decrease the estimated fair value of certain fixed income securities that we hold in our investment portfolios, resulting in: - reduced levels of unrealised capital gains available to us, which could negatively impact our solvency position and net income, and/or - a decrease in collateral values, (2) result in increased surrenders of certain life and savings products, particularly those with fixed rates below market rates, (3) actual claims payments significantly exceeding associated insurance reserves in the context of certain non-life risks, due to: - claims inflation (which is an increase in the amount ultimately paid to settle claims several years after the policy coverage period or event giving rise to the claim), together with - an underestimation of corresponding claims reserves at the time of establishment due to a failure to fully anticipate increased inflation and its effect on the amounts ultimately payable to policyholders, and, consequently, - actual claims payments significantly exceeding associated insurance reserves, 23 Table of Contents (4) require us, as an issuer of securities, to pay higher interest rates on debt securities that we issue in the financial markets from time to time to finance our operations, which would increase our interest expenses and reduce our results of operations, and/or (5) result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the variable annuity balances invested in fixed income funds. A significant and sustained increase in inflation has historically also been associated with decreased prices for equity securities and sluggish performance of equity markets generally. A sustained decline in equity markets may: (1) result in impairment charges to equity securities that we hold in our investment portfolios and reduced levels of unrealised capital gains available to us which would reduce our net income and negatively impact our solvency position, (2) negatively impact performance, future sales and surrenders of certain products where underlying investments are often allocated to equity funds, (3) negatively impact the ability of our asset management subsidiaries to retain and attract AUM, as well as the value of assets they do manage, which may negatively impact their results of operations, and/or (4) result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the variable annuity balances invested in fixed income funds. (5) lower the value of our equity investments impacting our capital position. In addition, a failure to accurately anticipate higher inflation and factor it into our product pricing and reserves assumptions may result in a systemic mispricing of our products, resulting in underwriting losses, which would negatively impact our results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO THE GROUP’S BUSINESS, OPERATIONS AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT We may be unable to manage our risks successfully through derivatives. We employ various economic hedging strategies with the objective of mitigating the market risks that are inherent in our business and operations. These risks include currency fluctuations, changes in the fair value of our investments, the impact of interest rates, equity markets and credit spread changes, the occurrence of credit defaults and changes in mortality and longevity. We seek to control these risks by, among other things, entering into a number of derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forward contracts, including, from time to time, macro hedges for parts of our business, either directly as a counterparty or as a credit support provider to affiliate counterparties. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with these risks is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with those fluctuations. Our hedging strategies also rely on assumptions and projections regarding our assets, liabilities, general market factors and the creditworthiness of our counterparties that may prove to be incorrect or prove to be inadequate. Accordingly, our hedging activities may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risks and losses. Hedging strategies involve transaction costs and other costs, and if we terminate a hedging arrangement, we may also be required to pay additional costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs. There have been periods in the past, and it is likely that there will be periods in the future, during which we have incurred or may incur losses on transactions, possibly significant, after taking into account our hedging strategies. Further, the nature and timing of our hedging transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. Hedging instruments we use to manage product and other risks might not perform as intended or expected, which could result in higher (un)realised losses, such as credit value adjustment risks or unexpected P&L effects, and unanticipated cash needs to collateralise or settle such transactions. Adverse market conditions can limit the availability and increase the costs of hedging instruments, and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. In addition, hedging counterparties may fail to perform their obligations, resulting in unhedged exposures and losses on positions that are not collateralised. As such, our hedging strategies and the derivatives that we use or may use may not adequately mitigate or offset the risk of interest rate volatility, and our hedging transactions may result in losses. Our hedging strategy additionally relies on the assumption that hedging counterparties remain able and willing to provide the hedges required by our strategy. Increased regulation, market shocks, worsening market conditions (whether due to the ongoing Euro crisis or otherwise), and/or other factors that affect or are perceived to affect the financial condition, liquidity and creditworthiness of ING may reduce the ability and/or willingness of such counterparties to engage in hedging contracts with us and/or other parties, affecting our overall ability to hedge our risks and adversely affecting our business, operations, financial condition and liquidity. 24 Table of Contents ING Group may be unable to retain key personnel. As a financial services enterprise with a decentralised management structure, ING Group relies to a considerable extent on the quality of local management in the various countries in which it operates. The success of ING Group’s operations is dependent, among other things, on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified professional personnel. Competition for key personnel in most countries in which ING Group operates is intense. ING Group’s ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers, experienced portfolio managers, mutual fund managers and sales executives, is dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. As a part of their responses to the financial crisis of 2008, the EC and national governments throughout Europe have introduced and are expected to continue introducing various legislative initiatives that aim to ensure that financial institutions’ remuneration policies and practices are consistent with and promote sound and effective risk management, and that impose restrictions on the remuneration of personnel, in particular, senior management, with a focus on risk alignment of performance-related remuneration. Such initiatives include, among others, measures set out in Directive 2010/76/EU (CRD III) and Directive 2013/36/EU (CRD IV), the Guidelines on Remuneration Policies and Practices published by (the predecessor of) the European Banking Authority, the Regulation of the DNB on Sound Remuneration Policies (Regeling beheerst beloningsbeleid Wft 2011), the Dutch law with respect to the limitation of liability of the DNB and AFM and the prohibition of the payment of variable remuneration to board members and day-to-day policy makers of financial institutions that receive state aid (Wet aansprakelijkheidsbeperking DNB en AFM en bonusverbod staatsgesteunde ondernemingen) and the Dutch legislative proposal submitted to the Dutch Parliament in November 2013 on remuneration for employees of financial institutions. The legislative proposal would, if adopted, introduce a variable remuneration cap at 20% on an aggregated level for all persons working in the financial sector in the Netherlands. Persons covered by a collective labour agreement in the Netherlands are subject to an individual cap of 20%. Other persons in the Netherlands are subject to the aggregated cap of 20% cap based on an aggregate level. For this group, as well as for persons working outside the Netherlands, (in the EU or outside the EU), exceptions are possible, in line with CRD IV, but only under strict conditions. In addition, the proposal limits exit compensation and retention compensation and prohibits guaranteed variable remuneration. It is currently expected that the proposal will result in legislation being adopted in the course of 2014 and becoming effective as of 2015. Since the financial crisis, ING has adapted its remuneration policies to the new national and international standards. No base salary increase in relation to 2014 has been proposed and, as of 31 December 2013, the remuneration level of ING Group’s Executive Board is far below the median of our EURO Stoxx 50 benchmark, which is made up of similar European financial and non-financial institutions. These restrictions will continue to have an impact on existing ING Group remuneration policies and individual remuneration packages for personnel and may restrict our ability to offer competitive compensation compared with companies that are not subject to such restrictions. These restrictions, alone or in combination with the other factors described above, could adversely affect ING Group’s ability to retain or attract qualified employees. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims by third parties, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In the conduct of our business, we rely on a combination of contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, trade name, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we endeavour to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. In that event, we may be required to incur significant costs, and our efforts may not prove successful. The inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. We may also be subject to claims made by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of copyright, trademark or licence usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licences. Alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or to implement a costly workaround. Any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Because we use assumptions about factors to calculate the amount of certain items, the use of different assumptions about these factors may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The establishment of insurance provisions, including the impact of minimum guarantees which are contained within certain variable annuity products, the adequacy test performed on the provisions for life policies and the establishment of deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and value of business acquired (‘VOBA’) are inherently uncertain processes involving assumptions about factors such as court decisions, changes in laws, social, economic and 25 Table of Contents demographic trends, inflation, investment returns, policyholder behaviour (e.g., lapses, persistency, etc.) and other factors, and, in the insurance business, assumptions concerning mortality, longevity and morbidity trends. The use of different assumptions about these factors could have a material effect on insurance provisions and underwriting expense. Changes in assumptions may lead to changes in the insurance provisions over time. Furthermore, some of these assumptions can be volatile. Because we use assumptions to model client behaviour for the purpose of our market risk calculations, the difference between the realisation and the assumptions may have an adverse impact on the risk figures and future results. We use assumptions in order to model client behaviour for the risk calculations in our banking and insurance books. Assumptions are used to determine insurance liabilities, the interest rate risk profile of savings and current accounts and to estimate the embedded option risk in the mortgage and investment portfolios. The realisation or use of different assumptions to determine client behaviour could have material adverse effect on the calculated risk figures and, ultimately, future results. NN Group has a significant exposure to the take-up of policy options by policyholders. The exposure is greatest for variable annuity business with guarantees deeply in-the-money, policyholder behaviour is difficult to predict and small changes in the proportion of policyholders taking up an option can have a significant financial impact. Furthermore, assumptions about policyholder behaviour are sometimes made for new insurance business without a substantial amount of experiential data. These assumptions may prove imperfect, which may have a material impact on results. See ‘—Because we use assumptions about factors to calculate the amount of certain items, the use of different assumptions about these factors may have an adverse impact on our results of operations’. We may incur further liabilities in respect of our defined benefit retirement plans if the value of plan assets is not sufficient to cover potential obligations, including as a result of differences between results and underlying actuarial assumptions and models. ING Group companies operate various defined benefit retirement plans covering a significant number of our employees. The liability recognised in our consolidated balance sheet in respect of our defined benefit plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of each plan’s assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains and losses and unrecognised past service costs. We determine our defined benefit plan obligations based on internal and external actuarial models and calculations using the projected unit credit method. Inherent in these actuarial models are assumptions, including discount rates, rates of increase in future salary and benefit levels, mortality rates, trend rates in health care costs, consumer price index, and the expected return on plan assets. These assumptions are based on available market data and the historical performance of plan assets, and are updated annually. Nevertheless, the actuarial assumptions may differ significantly from actual results due to changes in market conditions, economic and mortality trends and other assumptions. Any changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on our present and future liabilities to and costs associated with our defined benefit retirement plans. Our risk management policies and guidelines may prove inadequate for the risks we face. We have developed risk management policies and procedures and will continue to review and develop these in the future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective, particularly during extremely turbulent times. The methods we use to manage, estimate and measure risk are partly based on historic market behaviour. The methods may, therefore, prove to be inadequate for predicting future risk exposure, which may be significantly greater than suggested by historical experience. For instance, these methods may not predict the losses seen in the stressed conditions in recent periods, and may also not adequately allow prediction of circumstances arising due to government interventions and stimulus packages, which increase the difficulty of evaluating risks. Other methods for risk management are based on evaluation of information regarding markets, customers, catastrophic occurrence or other information that is publicly known or otherwise available to us. Such information may not always be accurate, complete, updated or properly evaluated. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record and verify large numbers of transactions and events. These policies and procedures may not be fully effective. We are subject to a variety of regulatory risks as a result of our operations in certain countries. In certain countries in which we operate, judiciary and dispute resolution systems may be less developed. As a result, in case of a breach of contract, we may have difficulties in making and enforcing claims against contractual counterparties and, if claims are made against us, we might encounter difficulties in mounting a defence against such allegations. If we become party to legal proceedings in a market with an insufficiently developed judicial system, it could have an adverse effect on our operations and net results. In addition, as a result of our operations in certain countries, we are subject to risks of possible nationalisation, expropriation, price controls, exchange controls and other restrictive government actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities, in these markets. In addition, the current economic environment in certain countries in which we operate may increase the likelihood for regulatory initiatives to enhance consumer protection or to protect homeowners from 26 Table of Contents foreclosures. Any such regulatory initiative could have an adverse impact on our ability to protect our economic interest, for instance in the event of defaults on residential mortgages. Holders of NN’s products where the customer bears all or part of the investment risk, or consumer protection organisations on their behalf, have filed claims or proceedings against NN and may continue to do so. A negative outcome of such claims and proceedings brought by customers or organisations acting on their behalf, actions taken by regulators or governmental authorities against NN or other insurers in respect of unit-linked products, settlements or any other actions for the benefit of customers by other insurers and sector-wide measures could substantially affect NN’s insurance business and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on NN’s and ING’s business, reputation, revenues, results of operations, solvency and financial condition. In addition, claims and proceedings may be brought against NN in respect of other products with one or more similar product characteristics sold, issued or advised on by NN in and outside the Netherlands. In this risk factor NN means NN Group N.V. and its subsidiaries. Since the end of 2006, unit-linked products (commonly referred to in Dutch as ‘beleggingsverzekeringen’) have received negative attention in the Dutch media, from the Dutch Parliament, the AFM and consumer protection organisations. Costs of unit-linked products sold in the past are perceived as too high and Dutch insurers are in general being accused of being less transparent in their offering of such unit-linked products. The criticism on unit-linked products led to the introduction of compensation schemes by Dutch insurance companies that have offered unit-linked products. In 2008 ING’s Dutch insurance subsidiaries reached an outline agreement with two main consumer protection organisations to offer compensation to their unit-linked policyholders where individual unit-linked policies had a cost charge in excess of an agreed maximum and to offer similar compensation for certain hybrid insurance products. At 31 December 2008 costs of the settlements were valued at EUR 365 million for which adequate provisions have been established and of which a substantial portion has been paid out. The remaining unpaid part of the provision as per 31 December 2013 is solely available to cover costs relating to the settlements agreed in 2008. A full agreement on implementation was reached in 2010 with one of the two main consumer protection organisations, with the second main consumer protection organisation signing its agreement in June 2012. In addition, ING’s Dutch insurance subsidiaries announced additional measures (flankerend beleid) that comply with the ‘Best in Class’ criteria as formulated on 24 November 2011 by the Dutch Minister of Finance. In December 2011 this resulted in an additional agreement on these measures with the two main consumer protection organisations. In 2012 almost all unit-linked policyholders were informed about the compensation. The agreements with the two consumer protection organisations are not binding on policyholders. Consequently, neither the implementation of the compensation schemes nor the additional measures offered by NN prevent individual policyholders from initiating legal proceedings against INGs Dutch insurance subsidiaries and making claims for damages. ING’s Dutch insurance subsidiaries have issued, sold or advised on approximately one million individual unit-linked policies. As noted above, there has been for some time and there continues to be political, regulatory and public attention focused on the unit-linked issue in general. Elements of unit-linked policies are being challenged or may be challenged on multiple legal grounds in current and future legal proceedings and there is a risk that one or more of these legal challenges will succeed. Customers of ING’s Dutch insurance subsidiaries have claimed, among others, that (a) the investment risk, costs charged or the risk premium was not, or not sufficiently, made clear to the customer, (b) the product costs charged on initial sale and on an on-going basis were so high that the expected return on investment was not realistically achievable, (c) the product sold to the customer contained specific risks that were not, or not sufficiently, made clear to the customer (such as the leverage capital consumption risk) or was not suited to his personal circumstances, (d) NN owed the customer a duty of care which NN has breached, or (e) the insurer failed to warn of the risk of not realising the projected policy values. These claims may be based on general standards of contract or securities law, such as reasonableness and fairness, error, duty of care, or standards for proper customer treatment or due diligence and may be made by customers, or on behalf of customers, holding active policies or whose policies have lapsed, matured or been surrendered. NN is currently subject to legal proceedings initiated by individual policyholders and is subject of a number of claims initiatives brought on behalf of policyholders by consumer protection organisations in which claims as set forth above or similar claims are being made. While to date less than 100 complaints are pending before the Dispute Committee of the Financial Services Complaints Board (the KiFiD), and less than 200 individual settlements were made, there is no assurance that further proceedings for damages will not be brought. As the current proceedings are only in early stages, the timing of reaching any finality on these legal claims and proceedings is uncertain and such uncertainty is likely to continue for some time. As a result, although the financial consequences of any of these factors or a combination thereof could be substantial for the Dutch insurance business of ING and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on NN’s and ING’s reputation, results of operations, solvency and financial condition, it is not possible to reliably estimate or quantify NN’s and ING’s exposures at this time. See “Note 54 Legal Proceedings”. Rulings or announcements made by courts, including the European Court of Justice and advisory opinions to be issued by the Attorney General to such Court on questions being considered by such Court, or decision-making bodies or actions taken by regulators or governmental authorities against NN or other Dutch insurance companies in respect of unit-linked products, or settlements or any other actions to the benefit of customers (including product improvements or repairs) by other Dutch insurance companies towards consumers, consumer protection organisations, regulatory or governmental authorities or other decision making bodies in respect of the unit-linked products may affect the (legal) position of NN and may force NN to take (financial) measures that could have a 27 Table of Contents substantial impact on the financial condition, results of operations, solvency or reputation of NN and ING. As a result of the public and political attention the unit-linked issue has received, it is also possible that sector-wide measures may be imposed by governmental authorities or regulators in relation to unit-linked products in the Netherlands. The impact on NN of rulings made by courts or decision-making bodies, actions taken by regulators or governmental bodies against other Dutch insurance companies in respect of unit-linked products, or settlements or any other actions to the benefit of customers (including product improvements or repairs) may be determined not only by market share but also by product features, portfolio composition and other factors. Adverse decisions or the occurrence of any of the developments as described above could result in outcomes materially different than if NN or its products had been judged or negotiated solely on their own merits. NN has in the past sold, issued or advised on unit-linked products in and outside the Netherlands, and in certain jurisdictions continues to do so. Moreover, NN has in the past, in the Netherlands and other countries, sold, issued or advised on large numbers of insurance or investment products of its own or of third parties (and in some jurisdictions continues to do so) that have one or more product characteristics similar to those unit-linked products that have been the subject of the scrutiny, adverse publicity and claims in the Netherlands. Given the continuous political, regulatory and public attention on the unit-linked issue in the Netherlands, the increase in legal proceedings and claim initiatives in the Netherlands or the legislative and regulatory developments in Europe to further increase and strengthen consumer protection in general, there is a risk that unit-linked products and other insurance and investment products sold, issued or advised on by NN, may become subject to the same or similar levels of regulatory or political scrutiny, publicity and claims or actions by consumers, consumer protection organisations, regulators or governmental authorities. NN’s book of policies dates back many years, and in some cases several decades. Over time, the regulatory requirements and expectations of various stakeholders, including customers, regulators and the public at large, as well as standards and market practice, have developed and changed, increasing customer protection. As a result policyholders and consumer protection organisations have initiated and may in the future initiate proceedings against NN alleging that products sold in the past fail to meet current requirements and expectations. In any such proceedings, it cannot be excluded that the relevant court, regulator, governmental authority or other decision-making body will apply current norms, requirements, expectations, standards and market practices on laws and regulations to products sold, issued or advised on by NN. Any of the developments described above could be substantial for NN and ING and as a result may have a material adverse effect on ING’s business, reputation, revenues, results of operations, solvency, financial condition and prospects. ING is exposed to the risk of mis-selling claims. Mis-selling claims are claims from customers who allege that they have received misleading advice or other information from advisers (both internal and external) as to which products were most appropriate for them, or that the terms and conditions of the products, the nature of the products or the circumstances under which the products were sold, were misrepresented to them. When new financial products are brought to the market, ING engages in a product approval process in connection with the development of such products, including production of appropriate marketing and communication materials. Notwithstanding these processes, customers may make mis-selling claims against ING if the products do not generate the expected profit, or result in a loss, or otherwise do not meet expectations. Customer protection regulations, as well as changes in interpretation and perception by both the public at large and governmental authorities of acceptable market practices, influence customer expectations. Products distributed through person-to-person sales forces have a higher exposure to mis-selling as the sales forces provide face-to-face financial planning and advisory services. Complaints may also arise if customers feel that they have not been treated reasonably or fairly, or that the duty of care has not been complied with. While a considerable amount of time and money has been invested in reviewing and assessing historical sales practices and products that were sold in the past, and in the maintenance of effective risk management, legal and compliance procedures (which in themselves may prove inadequate or otherwise ineffective) to monitor current sales practices, there can be no assurance that all of the issues associated with current and historical sales practices and products have been or will be identified, nor that any issues already identified will not be more widespread than presently estimated. The negative publicity associated with any sales practices, any compensation payable in respect of any such issues and regulatory changes resulting from such issues, has had and could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Ratings are important to our business for a number of reasons. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or our credit ratings could have an adverse impact on our operations and net results. Credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entity’s ability to repay its indebtedness. Our credit ratings are important to our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and to the cost of such financing. In the event of a downgrade, the cost of issuing debt will increase, having an adverse effect on net results. Certain institutional investors may also be obliged to withdraw their deposits from ING following a downgrade, which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. We have credit ratings from S&P, Moody’s Investor Service and Fitch 28 Table of Contents Ratings. Each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings and rating methodologies on a recurring basis and may decide on a downgrade at any time. For example, on 2 December 2013, S&P downgraded the long-term debt ratings of ING Groep N.V. from A to A- and ING Bank from A+ to A with stable outlook for both. At the same time, S&P cut the rating of NN Group N.V. from A+ to A. Claims-paying ability, at the Group or subsidiary level, and financial strength ratings are factors in establishing the competitive position of insurers. A rating downgrade could elevate lapses or surrenders of policies requiring cash payments by current customers seeking companies with higher financial strength ratings, which might force us to sell assets at a price that may result in realised investment losses. Among others, total invested assets decreases and deferred acquisition costs might need to be accelerated, adversely impacting earnings. Furthermore, sales of assets to meet customer withdrawal demands could also result in losses, depending on market conditions. In addition, a downgrade in either our financial strength or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, increase our borrowing costs and make it more difficult to access financing; adversely affect access to the commercial paper market or the availability of letters of credit and other financial guarantees; result in additional collateral requirements, or other required payments or termination rights under derivative contracts or other agreements: and/or impair, or cause the termination of, our relationships with creditors, broker-dealers, distributors of our products and services and customers, reinsurers or trading counterparties, which could potentially negatively affect our profitability, new sales, liquidity, capital and/or our competitive position. Furthermore, ING Bank’s assets are risk-weighted. Downgrades of these assets could result in a higher risk-weighting, which may result in higher capital requirements. This may impact net earnings and the return on capital, and may have an adverse impact on our competitive position. For ING’s insurance businesses in a number of jurisdictions, downgrades of assets will similarly affect the capital requirements for NN Group in those jurisdictions. As rating agencies continue to evaluate the financial services industry, it is possible that rating agencies will heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to financial institutions, increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, request additional information from the companies that they rate and potentially adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. It is possible that the outcome of any such review of us would have additional adverse ratings consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We may need to take actions in response to changing standards or capital requirements set by any of the rating agencies, which could cause our business and operations to suffer. We cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies. Operational risks, such as systems disruptions or failures, breaches of security, cyberattacks, human error, changes in operational practices or inadequate controls may adversely impact our business, results of operation and reputation. Operational risks are inherent in our business. Our businesses depend on the ability to process a large number of transactions efficiently and accurately. Although we endeavour to safeguard our systems and processes, losses can result from inadequately trained or skilled personnel, IT failures (including failure to anticipate or prevent cyberattacks, which are deliberate attempts to gain unauthorised access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or impairing operational performance, or security breaks by third parties), inadequate or failed internal control processes and systems, regulatory breaches, human errors, employee misconduct, including fraud, or from external events that interrupt normal business operations. We depend on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. The equipment and software used in our computer systems and networks may not always be capable of processing, storing or transmitting information as expected. Despite our business continuity plans and procedures, certain of our computer systems and networks may have insufficient recovery capabilities in the event of a malfunction or loss of data. In addition, whilst we have policies and processes to protect our systems and networks, they may be vulnerable to unauthorised access, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyberattacks and other external attacks or internal breaches that could have a security impact and jeopardise our confidential information or that of our clients or our counterparties. These events can potentially result in financial loss and harm to our reputation, and hinder our operational effectiveness. We also face the risk that the design and operating effectiveness of our controls and procedures prove to be inadequate. Widespread outbreaks of communicable diseases, such as the outbreak of the H1N1 influenza virus, may impact the health of our employees, increasing absenteeism, or may cause a significant increase in the utilisation of health benefits offered to our employees, either or both of which could adversely impact our business. Unforeseeable and/or catastrophic events can lead to an abrupt interruption of activities, and our operations may be subject to losses resulting from such disruptions. Losses can result from destruction or impairment of property, financial assets, trading positions, and the loss of key personnel. If our business continuity plans are not able to be implemented or do not sufficiently take such events into account, losses may increase further. We have suffered losses from operational risk in the past and there can be no assurance that we will not suffer material losses from operational risk in the future. 29 Table of Contents Reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. We may also decide to reduce, eliminate or decline primary insurance or reinsurance coverage. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various insurance business segments. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business. In addition, we determine the appropriate level of primary insurance and reinsurance coverage based on a number of factors and from time to time decide to reduce, eliminate or decline coverage based on our assessment of the costs and benefits involved. In such cases, the uninsured risk remains with us. Adverse publicity, claims and allegations, litigation and regulatory investigations and sanctions may have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects. We are subject to litigation, arbitration and other claims and allegations in the ordinary course of business, including in connection with our activities as financial services provider, insurer, employer, investor and taxpayer. Adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from our failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, financial reporting irregularities involving other large and well-known companies, possible findings of government authorities in various jurisdictions which are investigating several rate-setting processes, increasing regulatory and law enforcement scrutiny of ‘know your customer’ anti-money laundering, prohibited transactions with countries subject to sanctions, and bribery or other anti-corruption measures and anti-terrorist-financing procedures and their effectiveness, regulatory investigations of the mutual fund, banking and insurance industries, and litigation that arises from the failure or perceived failure by us to comply with legal, regulatory and compliance requirements could result in adverse publicity and reputational harm, lead to increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers and maintain access to the capital markets, result in cease and desist orders, claims, enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal penalties, other disciplinary action or have other material adverse effects on us in ways that are not predictable. Some claims and allegations may be brought by or on behalf of a class and claimants may seek large or indeterminate amounts of damages, including compensatory, liquidated, treble and punitive damages. See ‘— ING is exposed to the risk of mis-selling claims’. Our reserves for litigation liabilities may prove to be inadequate. Claims and allegations, should they become public, need not be well founded, true or successful to have a negative impact on our reputation. In addition, press reports and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing could result in inquiries or investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials, and responding to these inquiries and investigations, regardless of their ultimate outcome, is time-consuming and expensive. Adverse publicity, claims and allegations, litigation and regulatory investigations and sanctions may have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects in any given period. For additional information with respect to specific proceedings, see ‘Item 8. Financial Information — Legal Proceedings’. RISKS RELATED TO THE RESTRUCTURING PLAN The implementation of the Restructuring Plan and the divestments anticipated in connection with that plan will significantly alter the size and structure of the Group and involve significant costs and uncertainties that could materially impact the Group. In November 2008, the Dutch State purchased the Core Tier 1 Securities, and in the first quarter of 2009, we entered into the Illiquid Asset Back-up Facility (‘IABF’) with the Dutch State, the structure of which has been since then terminated as of 1 November 2013. As a result of having received state aid through the Dutch State Transactions, we were required to submit a restructuring plan to the EC in connection with obtaining final approval for the Dutch State Transactions under the EC state aid rules. On 26 October 2009, we announced our restructuring plan (‘Initial Restructuring Plan’), pursuant to which we were required to divest by the end of 2013 all of our insurance business, including the investment management business, as well as ING Direct USA, which operated our direct banking business in the U.S., and certain portions of our retail banking business in the Netherlands. The EC’s approval of the Initial Restructuring Plan was issued on 18 November 2009. On 28 January 2010, ING lodged an appeal with the General Court of the European Union (‘General Court’) against specific elements of the EC’s decision regarding the Initial Restructuring Plan. On 2 March 2012, the General Court partially annulled the EC’s decision of 18 November 2009. Subsequently, the EC filed an appeal against the General Court’s judgment before the Court of Justice of the European Union. In parallel, the EC adopted a decision on 11 May 2012 that re-approved the state aid granted to ING Group as compatible with the internal market on the basis of the Initial Restructuring Plan. On the same date, the EC adopted an interim decision which opened an investigation concerning certain amendments and elements of the Initial Restructuring Plan. On 24 July 2012, ING announced that the Dutch State and ING were in dialogue with the EC on an amended and updated Restructuring Plan to be submitted to the EC. However, in order to safeguard its legal 30 Table of Contents rights, ING filed an appeal with the General Court against the EC’s decision of 11 May 2012, which re-approved the Initial Restructuring Plan. On 19 November 2012, ING and the Dutch State announced that they reached an agreement with the EC on significant amendments to the Initial Restructuring Plan (‘Amended Restructuring Plan’, and together with the Initial Restructuring Plan, ‘Restructuring Plan’). The Amended Restructuring Plan extended the time horizon and increased the flexibility for the completion of divestments and adjusted other commitments set forth in the Initial Restructuring Plan. On 6 November 2013, ING and the Dutch State further announced the adoption of a revised timeline for certain required divestments As a result of the Amended Restructuring Plan, the EC has closed its formal investigations as announced on 11 May 2012, and ING has withdrawn its appeal with the General Court filed in July 2012. Although the EC’s appeal against the March 2012 ruling of the General Court continues, ING, the Dutch State and the EC have agreed that any outcome of this procedure will not affect the approval of the Amended Restructuring Plan. It is expected that this judgment will be rendered in April 2014. See Note 58 of Note 2.1 to the consolidated financial statements of ING Group for more information on and implications of the Amended Restructuring Plan. Pursuant to the agreement to unwind the IABF, the IABF in its current form was terminated, regular guarantee fee payments have been settled for an amount of EUR 0.4 billion, the other restrictions as part of the IABF agreement are no longer applicable and the Dutch State intends to sell the Alt-A securities in the market. A first tranche has been sold in December 2013 and the remainder has been sold in February 2014. Unwinding the IABF also resulted in eliminating a counter-guarantee that ING extended to the Dutch state in connection with the divestment of ING Direct USA in 2012. The restrictions imposed by the Restructuring Plan could adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow market share in key markets as well as our results of operations. See ‘Risks Related to the Restructuring Plan. See ‘— The limitations required by the EC on our ability to compete and to make acquisitions or call certain debt instruments could materially impact the Group’. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement the Restructuring Plan successfully or complete the remaining planned divestments on favourable terms or at all, particularly in light of market developments in general as well as the fact that other financial institutions may place similar assets for sale during the same time period and may seek to dispose of assets in the same manner. Any failure to successfully implement the Restructuring Plan may result in EC enforcement actions or EC procedures and may have a material adverse impact on the assets, profitability, capital adequacy and business operations of the Group. Moreover, in connection with the implementation of the Restructuring Plan, including any proposed divestments, we or potential buyers may need to obtain various approvals, including of shareholders, works councils and regulatory and competition authorities, and we and potential buyers may face difficulties in obtaining these approvals in a timely manner or at all. In addition, the implementation of the Restructuring Plan may strain relations with our employees, and specific proposals in connection with the implementation may be opposed by labour unions or works councils. Furthermore, following the announcement of the Initial Restructuring Plan, for example, several of our subsidiaries were downgraded or put on credit watch by rating agencies. See ‘Risks Related to the Group’s Business, Operations, and Regulatory Environment — Ratings are important to our business for a number of reasons. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or our credit ratings could have an adverse impact on our operations and net results’. Other factors that may impede our ability to implement the Restructuring Plan successfully include an inability of prospective purchasers to obtain funding due to the deterioration of the credit markets, insufficient access to equity capital markets, a general unwillingness of prospective purchasers to commit capital in the current market environment, antitrust concerns, any adverse changes in market interest rates or other borrowing costs and any declines in the value of the assets to be divested. Similarly, it may also be difficult to divest all or part of our insurance or investment management business through one or more initial public offerings. There can also be no assurance that we could obtain favourable pricing for a sale of all or part of our insurance or investment management business in the public markets or succeed in turning the relevant subsidiaries into viable stand-alone businesses. A divestment may also release less regulatory capital than we would otherwise expect. Any failure to complete the divestments on favourable terms could have a material adverse impact on our assets, profitability, capital adequacy and business operations. If we are unable to complete the announced divestments in a timely manner, we would be required to find alternative ways to reduce our leverage, and we could be subject to enforcement actions or proceedings by the EC. In case of material non-compliance with the Amended Restructuring Plan, in particular, if we do not succeed in completing divestitures as described in the Amended Restructuring Plan within the timelines set out therein or subsequently agreed upon, do not repay the Core Tier 1 Securities according to the schedule as included in the Amended Restructuring Plan, and/or do not succeed in satisfying the commitments with respect to Nationale-Nederlanden Bank upon divestment of more than 50% of our interest in NN Group c.q in Nationale-Nederlanden Bank and/or by year-end 2015 as described in the Amended Restructuring Plan, the Dutch State will re-notify this to the EC, which may take enforcement actions against ING or require additional restructuring measures. A divestment of more than 50% of ING’s interest as mentioned in this paragraph 31 Table of Contents also means that ING Group (a) no longer has a majority of representatives on the boards of these businesses and (b) has deconsolidated these businesses from ING Group’s financial statements in line with IFRS accounting rules. The implementation of the divestments announced in connection with the Restructuring Plan, including the separation of our insurance and most of our investment management operations from our banking operations, will also give rise to additional costs related to the legal and financial assessment of potential transactions. The implementation may also result in increased operating and administrative costs. The process of completing the steps contemplated by the Restructuring Plan may be disruptive to our business and the businesses we are trying to divest and may cause an interruption or reduction of our business and the businesses to be sold or otherwise divested as a result of, among other factors, the loss of key employees or customers and the diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to manage the divestment process as well as any disruptions or difficulties that arise during the course of the divestment process. We may face other difficulties in implementing the Restructuring Plan and completing the planned divestments. For instance, the divestments, individually or in the aggregate, may trigger provisions in various contractual obligations, including debt and capital instruments, which could require us to modify, restructure or refinance those or other related obligations. We may not be able to effect any such restructuring or refinancing on similar terms pursuant to the current contractual obligations or at all. In addition, the announced divestments could be the subject of claims or litigation, and a court or regulator could delay any of the divestment transactions or prohibit them from occurring on their proposed terms, or from occurring at all, which could adversely affect our ability to use the funds of the divestments to repay the remaining amount of the Core Tier 1 Securities, reduce or eliminate our double leverage and strengthen our capital ratios as anticipated and eliminate the constraints on competition imposed by the EC. The limitations required by the EC on our ability to compete and to make acquisitions or redeem certain debt instruments could materially impact the Group. As part of our Restructuring Plan, we have undertaken with the EC to accept certain limitations on our ability to compete in certain retail, private and direct banking markets in the EU and on our ability to acquire (i) financial institutions and (ii) businesses, insofar as this would delay our repayment of the remaining Core Tier 1 Securities held by the Dutch State. These restrictions in principle apply until the earlier of (1) 18 November 2015, and (2) the date upon which more than 50% of ING´s interest in its insurance and investment management businesses has been divested. We were also required to agree to limitations on our ability to call Tier-2 capital and Tier-1 hybrid debt instruments, which remain subject to authorisations by the EC on a case-by-case basis until the earlier of 18 November 2014 or the repayment of the remaining Core Tier 1 Securities (including the relevant accrued interest on Core Tier 1 coupons and exit premium fees). If the EC does not approve the calling of Tier-2 capital and Tier-1 hybrid debt instruments in the future, this may have adverse consequences for us, result in additional payments on these instruments and limit our ability to seek refinancing on more favourable terms. ING is furthermore restricted to a maximum ratio for mortgage production at ING Retail Banking Netherlands in relation to the mortgage production of Nationale-Nederlanden Bank until ING has divested more than 50% of its interest in NN Group c.q. Nationale-Nederlanden Bank or until year-end 2015. A divestment of more than 50% of ING’s interest as mentioned in this paragraph also means that ING Group (a) no longer has a majority of representatives on the boards of these businesses and (b) has deconsolidated these businesses from ING Group’s financial statements in line with IFRS accounting rules. The limitations described above will impose significant restrictions on our banking business operations and on our ability to take advantage of market conditions and growth opportunities. Such restrictions could adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow market share in key markets, as well as our results of operations. Upon the implementation of the Restructuring Plan, we will be less diversified and may experience competitive and other disadvantages. Following completion of the planned divestments under the Restructuring Plan, we expect to become a significantly smaller, regional financial institution focused on retail, direct and commercial banking in the Benelux region and certain other parts of Europe, as well as selected markets outside Europe. Although we will remain focused on banking operations, we may become a smaller bank than that represented by our current banking operations. In the highly competitive Benelux market and the other markets in which we operate, our competitors may be larger, more diversified and better capitalised and have greater geographical reach than us, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete, as well as on our profitability. The divested businesses may also compete with the retained businesses, on their own or as part of the purchasers’ enlarged businesses. For example, Nationale-Nederlanden Bank is already competing before its planned divestment with our retail banking business in the Netherlands, as Nationale-Nederlanden Bank has been ring-fenced from ING Bank’s operations for this purpose. In addition, the restrictions on our ability to be a price leader and make acquisitions and on our compensation policies could further hinder our capacity to compete with competitors not burdened with such restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There can be no assurance that the implementation of the Restructuring Plan will not have a material adverse effect on the market share, business and growth opportunities and results of operations for our remaining core banking businesses. 32 Table of Contents Our restructuring programs may not yield intended reductions in costs, risk and leverage. Projected cost savings and impact on our risk profile and capital associated with the Restructuring Plan are subject to a variety of risks, including: - actual costs to effect these initiatives may exceed estimates; - divestments planned in connection with the Restructuring Plan may not yield the level of net proceeds expected, as described under ‘Risks Related to the Restructuring Plan — The implementation of the Restructuring Plan and the divestments anticipated in connection with that plan will significantly alter the size and structure of the Group and involve significant costs and uncertainties that could materially impact the Group’; - initiatives that we are contemplating may require consultation with various regulators as well as employees and labour representatives, and such consultations may influence the timing, costs and extent of expected savings; - the loss of skilled employees in connection with the initiatives; and - projected savings may fall short of targets. While we have begun and expect to continue to implement these strategies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully or that we will realise the projected benefits of these and other restructuring and cost-saving initiatives. If we are unable to realise these anticipated cost reductions, our business may be adversely affected. Moreover, our continued implementation of restructuring and cost saving initiatives may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Whenever the overall return on the (remaining) Core Tier 1 Securities issued to the Dutch State is expected to be lower than 10% p.a. and/or in the event that ING does not repay the remaining Core Tier 1 Securities in accordance with the repayment schedule that was submitted to the EC as part of the Amended Restructuring Plan, the EC may consider the imposition of additional behavioural constraints. As stated in the decision of the EC of 12 November 2008 (in State Aid N 528/2008 — The Netherlands), the Core Tier 1 state-aid measure must be (re)notified to the EC by the Dutch authorities if the overall return on the Core Tier 1 Securities of at least 10% p.a. is not expected to be achieved. In such a case, the EC may require additional (behavioural) constraints as a condition of the compatibility of the measure. In 2011, ING reported to the Dutch authorities that ING has abstained from paying dividends on its shares for a period of two consecutive years (i.e., 2009 and 2010) as a result of which the EC opened an investigation into ING’s restructuring process. Following the approval of the Amended Restructuring Plan, the EC closed its formal investigations. Pursuant to the Amended Restructuring Plan, we had to repay the then outstanding amount of EUR 3 billion in four equal tranches. On 26 November 2012 and 6 November 2013, ING repaid the first two tranches of EUR 1,125 million each to the Dutch State. Each tranche consisted of EUR 750 million in repayment of Core Tier 1 Securities and EUR 375 million in premiums and interest. After the EUR 1,125 million payment made by ING on 6 November 2013, the remaining two tranches of approximately EUR 1,125 million each are expected to be paid in March 2014 and May 2015, respectively, translating into an overall internal rate of return of 12.5% p.a. Any repayment of the remaining Core Tier 1 Securities is conditional on approval from the DNB. Upon reaching the agreement on the Amended Restructuring Plan, ING indicated that it aims to repay the remaining Core Tier 1 Securities as soon as possible and accelerate repayments to the extent it is deemed prudent under prevailing financial circumstances. If the repayment of a tranche cannot be made in full or in part, ING will be required to make it up by a corresponding increase of the subsequent tranche to be repaid. The Netherlands committed to re-notify the recapitalisation measure in the event that ING does not repay in full two consecutive tranches. Moreover, if ING does not repay a total of EUR 4.5 billion by 15 May 2015, the Dutch State commits to re-notify the recapitalisation measure. If ING is unable to repay the remaining Core Tier 1 Securities according to the above-mentioned deadlines and other terms agreed with the EC, this could result in the EC imposing additional (behavioural) constraints on us or taking any enforcement action against us. ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATING TO OWNERSHIP OF ING SHARES Because we are a Dutch company and because Stichting ING Aandelen holds more than 99.9% of our Ordinary Shares, the rights of our depositary receiptholders may differ from the rights of shareholders in other jurisdictions or companies that do not use a similar trust structure, which could affect your rights as an equity investor. While holders of our bearer depositary receipts are entitled to attend and speak at our General Meeting of Shareholders (‘General Meeting’), voting rights are not attached to the bearer depositary receipts. Stichting ING Aandelen (‘Trust’) holds more than 99.9% of our Ordinary Shares, and exercises the voting rights attached to the Ordinary Shares (for which bearer depositary receipts have been issued). Holders of bearer depositary receipts who attend — in person or by proxy — the General Meeting must obtain and are entitled to voting rights by proxy from the Trust. Holders of bearer depositary receipts and holders of the American Depositary Shares (‘ADSs’) 33 Table of Contents representing the bearer depositary receipts who do not attend the General Meeting may give binding voting instructions to the Trust. The Trust is entitled to vote on any Ordinary Shares underlying the bearer depositary receipts for which the Trust has not granted voting proxies, or voting instructions have not been given to the Trust. In exercising its voting discretion, the Trust is required to be guided primarily by the interests of the holders of bearer depositary receipts, while also taking into account: - our interests, and - the interests of our affiliates. The Trust may, but has no obligation to, consult with the holders of bearer depositary receipts in exercising its voting rights in respect of any Ordinary Shares for which it is entitled to vote. These arrangements differ from practices in other jurisdictions, and accordingly may affect the rights of the holders of bearer depositary receipts and their power to affect ING’s business and operations. The share price of ING shares has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The share price of our bearer depositary receipts has experienced periods of volatility in the past, and the share price and trading volume of our bearer depositary receipts may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future, due, in part, to changes in our actual or forecast operating results and the inability to fulfil the profit expectations of securities analysts, as well as to the high volatility in the securities markets generally and more particularly in shares of financial institutions. Other factors, besides our financial results, that may impact our share price include, but are not limited to: - market expectations of the performance and capital adequacy of financial institutions in general; - investor perception of the success and impact of our strategies; - investor perception of our positions and risks; - a downgrade or review of our credit ratings; - the implementation and outcome of our Restructuring Plan; - potential litigation or regulatory action involving ING or sectors that we have exposure to through our insurance and banking activities; - announcements concerning financial problems or any investigations into the accounting practices of other financial institutions; and - general market circumstances. There can be no assurance that we will pay dividends on our Ordinary Shares in the future. It is ING’s policy to pay dividends in relation to the long-term underlying development of cash earnings. Dividends can only be declared by shareholders when the Executive Board considers such dividends appropriate, taking into consideration the financial conditions then prevailing and the longer-term outlook. See ‘Item 8. Financial Information — Dividends’. Given the uncertain financial environment, ING did not pay an interim dividend in 2013 and intends to resume dividend payments when all remaining Core Tier 1 Securities have been repaid to the Dutch State and the regulatory capital requirements of Basel III have been met. However, there can be no assurance that we will pay dividends in the future. The remaining Core Tier 1 Securities issued to the Dutch State may be converted into Ordinary Shares or bearer depositary receipts and dilute existing shareholders. The terms of the Core Tier 1 Securities permit us, on or after 12 November 2011, to convert any or all of the remaining Core Tier 1 Securities (EUR 1.5 billion per 6 November 2013) into Ordinary Shares or bearer depositary receipts on the basis of one Core Tier 1 Security for 1,335 Ordinary Shares on a one-for-one basis (subject to customary adjustments as may be necessary to preserve economic equivalence) or bearer depositary receipts. Any such conversion would dilute existing shareholders. If we exercise our conversion right, the Dutch State may opt to require us to redeem the Core Tier 1 Securities on the conversion date at the original issue price of EUR 10 per Core Tier 1 Security, together with the pro rata coupon, if due, accrued to such date. Certain holders of ING shares may not be able to participate in future equity offerings with subscription rights. We may undertake future equity offerings with or without subscription rights. In case of equity offerings with subscription rights, holders of ING shares in certain jurisdictions, however, may not be entitled to exercise such rights unless the rights and the related shares are registered or qualified for sale under the relevant legislation or regulatory framework. Holders of ING shares in these jurisdictions may suffer dilution of their shareholding should they not be permitted to participate in future equity offerings with subscription rights. 34 Table of Contents 