Item 1A. Risk Factors The failure of our existing or new restaurants to achieve expected results could have a negative impact on our revenues and financial results, including potential impairment of the long-lived assets of our restaurants, and could negatively impact our stock price. We operated 189 full service Bistro restaurants and 159 quick casual Pei Wei restaurants as of December 28, 2008, 42 of which opened within the last twelve months. The results achieved by these restaurants may not be indicative of longer term performance or the potential market acceptance of restaurants in other locations. There can be no assurance that any new restaurant that we open will have similar operating results to those of prior restaurants. Our new restaurants commonly take several months to reach planned operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants, including the training of new personnel, lack of market awareness, inability to hire sufficient staff and other factors. The failure of our existing or new restaurants to perform as expected could have a significant negative impact. We are subject to a number of significant risks that might cause our actual results to vary materially from our forecasts or projections including: • lower customer traffic or average guest check, which negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income, operating margins and earnings per share, due to: • the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased competition generally; • lack of customer acceptance of new menu items or potential price increases necessary to cover higher input costs; • unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, downturns in the housing market, higher interest rates, higher unemployment rates, lower disposable income due to higher energy or other consumer costs, lower consumer confidence, and other events or factors that adversely affect consumer spending, including the ongoing financial crises; • customers trading down to lower priced items and/or shifting to competitors with lower priced products; or • changes in consumer preferences or declines in general consumer demand for Asian menu items • cost increases that are either wholly or partially beyond our control, such as: • costs for commodities that we do not or cannot effectively hedge • labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market wage levels and workers’ compensation insurance costs; • operating expenses, such as utilities and other expenses that are impacted by energy price fluctuations • litigation against the Company, particularly class action litigation; • construction costs associated with new store openings; • information technology costs and other logistical resources necessary to maintain and support the global growth of our business; and • material interruptions in our supply chain, such as a material interruption of ingredient supply due to the failures of third-party suppliers, or interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods within the Company’s distribution channels Additionally, we have historically experienced variability in the amount and percentage of revenues attributable to preopening expenses. We typically incur the most significant portion of preopening expenses associated with a given restaurant within the two months immediately preceding and the month of the opening of the restaurant. Our experience has been that labor and operating costs associated with a newly opened restaurant for the first several months of operation are materially greater than what can be expected after that time, both in aggregate dollars and as a percentage of revenues. Accordingly, the volume and timing of new restaurant openings has had, 7 Table of Contents and may continue to have, a meaningful impact on preopening expenses as well as labor and operating costs. Due to the foregoing factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for a full fiscal year and these fluctuations may cause our operating results to be below expectations of public market analysts and investors, resulting in a lowering of our stock price. Changes in general economic and political conditions affect consumer spending and may harm our revenues, operating results or liquidity. Our country is currently in a recession and we believe that these weak general economic conditions will continue through 2009. The ongoing impacts of the housing crisis, rising unemployment and financial market weakness may further exacerbate current economic conditions. As the economy struggles, our customers may become more apprehensive about the economy and reduce their level of discretionary spending. A decrease in spending due to lower consumer discretionary income or consumer confidence in the economy could impact the frequency with which our customers choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals while dining out, thereby decreasing our revenues and negatively affecting our operating results. Additionally, we believe there is a risk that if the current negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time and become more pervasive, consumers might make long-lasting changes to their discretionary spending behavior, including dining out less frequently on a more permanent basis. Additionally, many of the effects and consequences of the current economic crisis on our commercial partners are currently unknown and any one or more of them could potentially have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, including our compliance with financial covenants under our credit facility, the ability of our banks to honor our credit facility, our ability to raise additional capital if needed, or other negative impacts on the Company’s business and financial results. Our initiatives to improve the operating performance of our Pei Wei concept may not be successful and could adversely impact the financial results of the Company. During 2008, we conducted a rigorous analysis of the entire Pei Wei store portfolio and as a result, we closed 10 underperforming Pei Wei restaurants. We also undertook, and continue to explore, various initiatives to improve the operating performance of our Pei Wei concept. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement operational initiatives or that such initiatives will achieve the desired improvements in operating results. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will not close additional Pei Wei restaurants as a result of future assessments of Pei Wei’s operating performance or that we will not incur additional lease termination charges if we choose not to proceed with the development of unopened restaurants for which we currently have signed lease agreements. If we do not successfully implement our operating initiatives, if operating initiatives do not achieve the intended results or if we determine that additional opened or unopened Pei Wei store closures are necessary, the Company may experience a material adverse impact on its business and its financial results. Changes in food costs could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Our profitability is dependent in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Other than for a portion of our commodities, such as produce, which are purchased locally by each restaurant, we rely on Distribution Market Advantage, a cooperative of multiple food distributors located throughout the nation, as the primary distributor of our ingredients. We have a non-exclusive contract with Distribution Market Advantage on terms and conditions that we believe are consistent with those made available to similarly situated restaurant companies. Although we believe that alternative distribution sources are available, any increase in distribution prices or failure to perform by the Distribution Market Advantage could cause our food costs to fluctuate. Any disruption in the supply of specialty items from China due to quality or availability issues could also cause our food costs to fluctuate. Additional factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions and governmental regulation, may affect our food costs. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs through our purchasing practices and menu price adjustments in the future, and failure to do so could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents We are highly dependent on the financial performance of restaurants concentrated in certain geographic areas. Our financial performance is highly dependent on restaurants located in California, Arizona, Nevada and Florida which comprise one-third of our total store population. In recent years, these states have been more negatively impacted by the housing downturn and the overall economic crisis than other geographic areas. As a result, we have seen a more substantial decline in guest traffic at our restaurants in these locations, which has adversely affected the operations of the company as a whole. If we are unable to improve operating performance in these geographic areas, our financial results will continue to be adversely affected. Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are, from time to time, the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food borne illnesses, injuries or other food quality, health or operational concerns. We may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately determined to be liable. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from former or prospective employees from time to time. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the costs and expense of defending ourselves against lawsuits or claims, regardless of merit, could have an adverse impact on our profitability and could cause variability in our results compared to expectations. We are subject to state “dram shop” laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. While we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, or at all. Our inability to retain key personnel could negatively impact our business. Our success will continue to be highly dependent on our key operating officers and employees. We must continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel, including regional managers, general managers and executive chefs, to maintain consistency in the quality and atmosphere of our restaurants. Individuals of this caliber are historically in short supply and this shortage may limit our ability to effectively penetrate new market areas. Additionally, the ability of these key personnel to maintain consistency in the quality of our product offerings and service and atmosphere of our restaurants is a critical factor in our success. Any failure to attract, retain and motivate key personnel may harm our reputation and result in a loss of business. Potential labor shortages may delay planned openings or damage customer relations. Our success will continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including kitchen staff and wait staff, to work our restaurants. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions are in short supply in certain areas. Our inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants while high employee turnover in existing restaurants may negatively impact customer service and customer relations, resulting in an adverse effect on our revenues or results of operations. Changes in government legislation may increase our labor costs and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. A substantial number of our restaurant personnel are hourly workers whose wage rates are affected by increases in the federal or state minimum wage or changes to tip credits. FICA tip credits resulting from tip credit reporting are also a significant factor when calculating the Company’s effective tax rate. The FICA tip credit is based on the amount of tips in excess of the federal minimum wage requirements in effect on January 1, 2007. Mandated increases in minimum wage levels and changes to the tip credit have recently been and continue to be proposed at both federal and state government levels. Additionally, as minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wages of our minimum wage employees but also the wages paid to employees at wage rates 9 Table of Contents that are above minimum wage. Future legislation that increases minimum wage rates or changes allowable tip credits may increase our labor costs or effective tax rate and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Intense competition in the restaurant industry could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price-value relationships, ambiance, service and location, and many restaurants compete with us at each of our locations. Our competitors at the Bistro concept include mid-price, full service, casual dining restaurants. For Pei Wei, our main competitors are other value-priced, quick-service concepts as well as locally owned and operated Asian restaurants. There are a number of well-established competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than ours, and many of our competitors are well established in the markets where we have restaurants, or in which we intend to locate restaurants. Additionally, other companies may develop restaurants that operate with similar concepts and the rising popularity of Asian food may result in increased competition from non-Asian restaurants as well as other food outlets, such as supermarkets, as they increase the number of Asian-inspired menu offerings. Any inability to successfully compete with the other restaurants in our markets may prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may also need to modify or refine elements of our restaurant system to evolve our concepts in order to compete with popular new restaurant formats or concepts that develop from time to time. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in implementing these modifications or that these modifications will not reduce our profitability. Our federal, state and local tax returns may, from time to time, be selected for audit by the taxing authorities, which may result in tax assessments or penalties that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the U.S. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the IRS or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken on our tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Fluctuating insurance requirements and costs could negatively impact our profitability and projections. The cost of workers’ compensation insurance, general liability insurance and directors and officers’ liability insurance fluctuates based on market conditions and availability as well as our historical trends. We self-insure a substantial portion of our workers’ compensation and general liability costs and unfavorable changes in trends could have a negative impact on our profitability. Additionally, health insurance costs in general have risen significantly over the past few years and are expected to continue to increase in 2009. These increases, as well as potential state legislation requirements for employers to provide health insurance to employees, could have a negative impact on our profitability if we are not able to offset the effect of such increases with plan modifications and cost control measures, or by continuing to improve our operating efficiencies. The inability to develop and construct our restaurants within projected budgets and time periods will adversely affect our business and financial condition. Each of our restaurants is distinctively designed to accommodate particular characteristics of each location and to blend local or regional design themes with our principal trade dress and other common design elements. This 10 Table of Contents presents each location with its own development and construction risks. Many factors may affect the costs and timeframes associated with the development and construction of our restaurants, including: • landlord delays; • labor disputes; • shortages of materials and skilled labor; • weather interference; • unforeseen engineering problems; • environmental problems; • construction or zoning problems; • local government regulations; • modifications in design to the size and scope of the projects; and • other unanticipated increases in costs, any of which could give rise to delays or cost overruns. If we are not able to develop additional restaurants within anticipated budgets or time periods, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Development is critical to our long-term success. Critical to our long-term future success is our ability to successfully expand our operations. We have expanded from seven restaurants at the end of 1996 to 348 restaurants as of December 28, 2008. We expect to open four to six new Bistro restaurants and two to four new Pei Wei restaurants during fiscal 2009. Our ability to expand successfully will depend on a number of factors, including: • identification and availability of suitable locations; • competition for restaurant sites; • negotiation of favorable lease arrangements; • timely development of commercial, residential, street or highway construction near our restaurants; • management of the costs of construction and development of new restaurants; • securing required governmental approvals and permits; • recruitment of qualified operating personnel, particularly managers and chefs; • weather conditions; • competition in new markets; and • general economic conditions, including those arising from the current economic crisis described above. The opening of additional restaurants in the future will depend in part upon our ability to generate sufficient funds from operations or to obtain sufficient equity or debt financing on favorable terms to support our expansion as well as the availability of high-quality commercial real estate projects of the type we typically target for new locations. We may not be able to open our planned new restaurants on a timely basis, if at all, and, if opened, these restaurants may not be operated profitably. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, delays in restaurant openings from time to time. Delays or failures in opening planned new restaurants could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with governmental regulations could harm our business and our reputation. We are subject to regulation by federal agencies and to licensing and regulation by state and local health, sanitation, building, zoning, safety, fire and other departments relating to the development and operation of restaurants. These regulations include matters relating to: • the environment; • building construction; • zoning requirements; • the preparation and sale of food and alcoholic beverages; and • employment. Our facilities are licensed and subject to regulation under state and local fire, health and safety codes. The development and construction of additional restaurants will be subject to compliance with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. We may not be able to obtain necessary licenses or other approvals on a cost-effective and timely basis in order to construct and develop restaurants in the future. Various federal and state labor laws govern our operations and our relationship with our employees, including minimum wage, overtime, working conditions, fringe benefit and citizenship requirements. In particular, we are subject to the regulations of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, or BCIS. The United States Congress has recently been considering changes to Federal immigration laws and various states, some of which where we have significant operations, are also in the process of considering or have already adopted new immigration laws. Some of these new laws may adversely affect our operations by increasing our obligations for compliance and oversight. Although we require all workers to provide us with the government-specified documentation evidencing their employment eligibility, some of our employees may, without our knowledge, be unauthorized workers. Unauthorized workers are subject to seizure and deportation and may subject us to fines, penalties or loss of our business license in certain jurisdictions. Any material disruption of our business, as a result of seizure of our workers, changes in immigration law, or significantly increased labor costs at our facilities in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In fiscal 2008, approximately 15 percent of our revenues at the Bistro and 2 percent of revenues at Pei Wei were attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. We are required to comply with the alcohol licensing requirements of the federal government, states and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require applications to state authorities and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of the restaurants, including minimum age of guests and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. If we fail to comply with federal, state or local regulations, our licenses may be revoked and we may be forced to terminate the sale of alcoholic beverages at one or more of our restaurants. The federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. We are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and regulations relating to accommodating the needs of the disabled in connection with the construction of new facilities and with significant renovations of existing facilities. Failure to comply with these and other regulations could negatively impact our business and our reputation. Our financial results may also fluctuate significantly as a result of our accounting for certain aspects of our partnership program. We incur non-cash charges for the excess of the imputed fair value of partner investments over the amount paid by our partners for their partnership interests. These amounts are recorded as the partnership interests are effective, which is typically when new stores open. The timing and volume of restaurant openings, the extent to which eligible persons elect to invest, the effective dates of their partnership interests and the determination of the related fair value 12 Table of Contents of the investment will create fluctuations in our operating results. Additionally, the timing and extent of any early repurchases of partnership interests may create fluctuations in our operating results. For the reasons noted above, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for a full fiscal year, and, from time to time in the future, the accounting impact of our partnership program may cause our results of operations to be different than the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This discrepancy could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The implementation of our new accounting software system could impact our ability to timely and/or accurately prepare financial reports or impact the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We are currently in the process of upgrading to a new accounting software system and expect to fully transition financial processes to this new system during early fiscal 2009. If we do not effectively implement this system or if the system does not operate as intended, it could impact our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis or adversely impact the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Some of the statements in this Form 10-K and the documents we incorporate by reference constitute forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terms such as may, will, should, expect, plan, intend, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements contained in this document involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and situations that may cause our or our industry’s actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these statements. Factors that might cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements may include the matters listed under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, including, but not limited to, failure of our existing or new restaurants to achieve predicted results, the adequacy of anticipated sources of cash to fund our future capital requirements and development of new restaurants. Because we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements, undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 Table of Contents 