D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Liquidity We have substantial indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial health, and our efforts to reduce and restructure this indebtedness may not be successful. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $3.7 billion of indebtedness. The Company’s ability to meet its debt service obligations and to repay its outstanding indebtedness will depend on a combination of new financings, cash from operations and cash produced by divestitures of some of the Company’s assets. There can be no assurance that such new financings or divestitures will be consummated, or, if consummated, that the terms of such transactions will be advantageous to us. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows to repay our outstanding 4 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements indebtedness, in light of the significant decreases in North American demand for newsprint, which is our principal product, and other negative factors affecting our industry. Our substantial amount of debt could have important negative consequences. For example, it could: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, or refinancing, when needed, for debt service requirements, working capital, capital expenditures, or other purposes; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to make payments on our debt; • cause us to liquidate assets such as timberland or production facilities on terms that may be unfavorable to us; • cause us to offer debt or equity securities on terms that may not be favorable to us or our affiliates; • reduce funds available for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • increase employee turnover and uncertainty, divert management’s attention from routine business and hinder our ability to recruit qualified employees; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Despite progress on integration following the Combination and an improved pricing environment in our industry, our near-term cash flow remains constrained. We currently expect to experience negative cash flow for fiscal year 2008. In addition, the credit agreement governing Bowater’s bank credit facility substantially restricts the transfer of funds from Bowater to Abitibi. At the same time, we are faced with significant near-term debt maturities and currently lack the liquidity to repay them. The Company, ACCC and AbitibiBowater are undertaking several financing transactions, each of which are contingent on the consummation of all of the others to address these issues (the “Financing Transactions”). On March 10, 2008, ACCC commenced a private exchange offer and consent solicitation with respect to certain debt securities to be issued by the Company in exchange for certain of the Company’s outstanding debt securities (the “Exchange Offers”). The Exchange Offers expire on April 4, 2008. On March 27, 2008, ACCC priced a private offering of US $413,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 13.75% senior secured notes due April 1, 2011 (the “New Secured Notes”). ACCC also entered into a 364-day senior secured term loan with a syndicate of lenders in an amount up to US$400 million (the “Senior Term Loan”). In addition, on March 24, 2008, AbitibiBowater Inc. entered into a Purchase Agreement with Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited (“Fairfax”) for the sale and issuance of $350 million aggregate principal amount of 8.0% Convertible Notes due 2013 (the “Convertible Notes”). The Financing Transactions are discussed further in the “Business Overview—Recent Developments” section below. We intend to complete the Financing Transactions (other than the Exchange Offers) on April 1, 2008. Immediately upon the consummation of the Financing Transactions, and the sale of our mill located in Snowflake, Arizona (the “Snowflake Mill”) (as further described below), on a pro forma basis we expect to have approximately US$278 million of cash on hand. However, we are currently free cash flow negative from our operations, and future cash flow will be further negatively impacted from our increased interest expense as a result of the Financing Transactions. In order to become free cash flow positive, we will need to realize a combination of previously announced price increases, new price increases, cost reductions and synergies from the Combination. Without raising additional capital or proceeds from asset sales, we expect our liquidity to decline in the near term. Based on our current expectations, even if the Financing Transactions are completed, we currently expect that by the second half of 2008 we will have limited cash available for working capital, debt service or any other purpose and will not have any revolving credit agreement or commitments to provide revolving credit indebtedness. We also intend to sell select assets in order to reduce our indebtedness. On February 10, 2008, we entered into an agreement with Catalyst Paper Corporation pursuant to which we agreed to sell our Snowflake mill for approximately US$180 million, including US$161 million in cash and approximately US$19 million in retained trade receivables. We expect this sale to close in April 2008, once all conditions to close, including a financing condition, which is expected to be satisfied in part by a fully backstopped rights offering, and certain customary 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements closing conditions, have been satisfied. This sale is required to comply with the requirements set forth by the U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) in October 2007 for approval of the Combination. If this sale does not close as expected, the DOJ may ask a court to appoint a trustee, who will be empowered to complete the sale on terms then obtainable by the trustee using its reasonable efforts. We continue to explore opportunities for the sale of other assets such as timberland or production facilities, but can make no assurances that we will be able to complete any such sales or that the terms of any such sales would be favorable to us. In addition, the terms of the Senior Term Loan, the indentures governing our various notes, debentures and other debt securities and the terms and conditions of our other indebtedness may permit us or our subsidiaries to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness in some circumstances. To the extent we incur additional indebtedness, some or all of the risks discussed above will increase. Although management believes that we will be able to comply with the terms of our debt agreements, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to refinance all or a portion of our debt or to obtain additional financing. We may be unable to refinance or obtain additional financing because of our high levels of debt. We may be forced to default on our debt obligations if cash flow is insufficient and refinancing or additional financing is unavailable. If we default under the terms of some of our indebtedness, the relevant debt holders may accelerate the maturity of our obligations, which could cause cross-defaults or cross-acceleration under our other obligations. If we are unable to refinance or restructure our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof, by reason of acceleration or otherwise, we could be compelled to seek protection under or be forced into a proceeding under Canada’s Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act, the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, or both. Our independent auditors have referred to our disclosure regarding our ability to continue as a going concern in our financial statements. Our financial statements include a going concern note, which indicates that there is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Our auditors have provided comments by Auditor for U.S. Readers on Canada-U.S. Reporting Difference, which states that in the United States, reporting standards for auditors require the addition of an explanatory paragraph (following the opinion paragraph) when the financial statements are affected by conditions and events that cast substantial doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern, such as those described in Note 1 to Abitibi’s consolidated financial statements. This disclosure will likely make it more difficult for us to raise capital on favorable terms and could hinder, to some extent, our operations. We need additional funds and we may be unable to obtain needed funds on favorable terms to us. We are currently seeking additional funds by borrowing more money to repay our current indebtedness and fund our operations. Upon the closing of the Financing Transactions, we will not have any revolving credit agreements or committed sources of liquidity. Moreover, our outstanding debt agreements contain, and after the closing of the Financing Transactions will contain, provisions that may restrict the secured debt we may incur in the future. In addition, the agreement governing Bowater’s bank credit facility substantially restricts the transfer of funds from Bowater to Abitibi. Even if the Financing Transactions are completed, we currently expect that by late 2008 we will have limited cash available for working capital, debt service or any other purpose and will not have any revolving credit agreement or commitments to provide revolving credit indebtedness. The availability of additional funds, whether from private capital sources (including banks), or the public capital markets, fluctuates as market conditions change. There may be times when the private capital markets and the public debt or equity markets are disrupted and lack sufficient liquidity or when our securities cannot be sold at attractive prices, in which case we may not be able to access capital from these sources. We believe the markets for our indebtedness are currently experiencing this type of disruption, making it difficult to secure the financing we need on terms acceptable to us. In addition, on March 10, 2008, Standard & Poor’s Rating Services downgraded our corporate and debt ratings and expressed concern regarding our ability to timely address our near-term debt maturities given current credit market conditions, and on March 18, 2008, Moody’s similarly downgraded our corporate and debt ratings. Such downgrade will likely make it more difficult for us to raise capital on favorable terms and could hinder, to some extent, our operations. It is possible that additional downgrades could occur if our interest coverage, leverage levels and/or outlook for our industry deteriorates further. 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Restrictive covenants in the indentures may reduce our operations and financial flexibility, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The terms of the indentures governing the notes to be issued in the financing transactions (as described under “—Recent Developments”) contain a number of operating and financial covenants restricting our ability to among other things: • incur additional debt; • create liens on assets; • pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, our capital stock; • make investments; • engage in sale and leaseback transactions; • engage in transactions with affiliates including the possibility to integrate our business with that of Bowater to realize synergies; • transfer or sell assets; • issue and sell equity interests in ACI’s wholly-owned subsidiaries; • guarantee debt; • restrict dividends and other payments to us; • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries; and • engage in unrelated businesses. In addition, our ability to comply with such covenants and those contained in the agreements governing other debt to which we are or may become a party may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in an acceleration of our debt and cross-defaults under our other debt. This could require us to repay or repurchase debt prior to the date it would otherwise be due, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Even if we are able to comply with all applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to manage our business in our sole discretion could adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that we believe would be beneficial to us. Risks Related to Our Business We may experience difficulties in integrating our business with that of Bowater and may not realize the anticipated synergies, efficiencies and cost savings from the Combination. The success of the Combination will depend, in significant part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, efficiencies and cost savings from integrating our business with that of Bowater. Our success in realizing these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings, and the timing of this realization, depend on the successful integration of such businesses and operations. We may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. The necessity of coordinating geographically disparate organizations and addressing possible differences in corporate and regional cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration of certain operations following the Combination takes time and requires the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily divert management’s attention from our routine business. Employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may also disrupt our business. Even if we are able to integrate such businesses and operations successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, efficiencies and cost savings that we currently expect from this integration or that these benefits will be achieved within the time frame or in the manner anticipated. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the Combination may be offset by the costs incurred in integrating the businesses and operations or adverse conditions imposed by regulatory authorities on the combined business in connection with granting approval for the Combination. In addition, the benefit of any synergies realized may not be shared equally between Abitibi and Bowater. If we do not realize our anticipated synergies and efficiencies, in the amounts or in the 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements time frame expected, or if our management cannot integrate successfully the operations of the two companies, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Developments in alternative media could continue to adversely affect the demand for our products, especially in North America, and our response to these developments may not be successful. Trends in advertising, electronic data transmission and storage and the Internet could have further adverse effects on traditional print media, including our products and those of our customers, but neither the timing nor the extent of those trends can be predicted with certainty. Our newspaper, magazine and catalog publishing customers may increasingly use, and compete with businesses that use, other forms of media and advertising and electronic data transmission and storage, including television and the Internet, instead of newsprint, uncoated specialty papers or other products made by us. The demand for certain of our products weakened significantly over the last several years. For example, industry statistics indicate that North American newsprint demand has been in decline since at least 1999 and has experienced annual declines of approximately 5% in 2005, 6% in 2006, and 10% in 2007. We believe, and certain third party forecasters indicate, that these declines in newsprint demand could continue in 2008 and beyond due to conservation measures taken by publishers, reduced North American newspaper circulation, less space devoted to advertising and substitution to other uncoated mechanical grades. In response to the decline in North American demand for our newsprint product, we have reduced our paper production capacity. Between November 29, 2007 and February 29, 2008, we reduced our newsprint and specialty papers production capacity by approximately 500,000 tonnes per year. As a result of our continuing review of our business to reduce cost, improve our manufacturing platform, and better position ourselves in the global marketplace, it may be necessary to curtail even more production or permanently shut down even more machines or facilities. We expect to announce the results and detailed action steps from this review during the second quarter of 2008 and additional curtailments or closures could take place by mid-2008. Such curtailments and shut downs would become increasingly likely as North American newsprint demand continues to decline or if market conditions otherwise worsen. Curtailments or shutdowns could result in goodwill impairment or asset write-downs at the affected facilities, which facilities may include facilities that are collateral for the notes, and could negatively impact our cash flows and materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be successful in our strategy of increasing our share of specialty papers and competing in growth markets with higher returns. One of the components of our long-term strategy is to improve our portfolio of businesses by focusing on specialty papers and competing more aggressively in growth markets with higher return. There are risks associated with the implementation of this strategy. For example, implementation involves an investment in machines and personnel and initial efforts to penetrate these markets often require reductions in prices in order to gain initial market share, which can make it more difficult to recover our investment. To the extent we are unsuccessful in achieving this strategy, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We face intense competition in the forest products industry and the failure to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete with numerous forest products companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. There has been a continued trend toward consolidation in the forest products industry, leading to new global producers. These global producers are typically large, well-capitalized companies that may have greater flexibility in pricing and financial resources for marketing, investment and expansion than we do. The markets for our products are all highly competitive. Actions by competitors can affect our ability to sell our products and can affect the volatility of the prices at which our products are sold. While the principal basis for competition is price, we also compete on the basis of customer service, quality and product type. There has also been an increasing trend toward consolidation among our customers. In addition, lumber demand is primarily driven by U.S. and Canadian residential housing construction. According to Freddie Mac, total U.S. housing starts declined 25% in 2007 to approximately 1.4 million units, and housing starts are expected to further decline 23% to approximately 1.1 million units in 2008. With fewer customers in the market for our products, our negotiation position with these customers could be weakened. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, our industry is capital intensive, which leads to high fixed costs. Some of our competitors may be lower-cost producers in some of the businesses in which we operate. Global newsprint capacity, particularly Chinese newsprint capacity, has been increasing, which could result in lower prices, volumes or both for our exported products. Other actions by competitors, such as reducing costs or adding low-cost capacity, may adversely affect our competitive position in the products we manufacture and, consequently, our sales, operating income and cash flows. We may not be able to compete effectively and achieve adequate levels of sales and product margins. Failure to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The forest products industry is highly cyclical. Fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could result in smaller or negative profit margins, lower sales volumes, and curtailment or closure of operations. The forest products industry is highly cyclical. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in capacity and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for our products. Most of our paper and wood products are commodities that are widely available from other producers and even our specialty paper is susceptible to these fluctuations. Because our commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand. The overall levels of demand for the products we manufacture and distribute and, consequently, our sales and profitability, reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in part on general economic conditions in North America and worldwide. In 2007, we experienced lower demand and decreased pricing for our wood products due to a weaker U.S. housing market. We are not expecting any significant improvements in the wood products market before 2009. As such, we currently have idled annualized capacity of approximately 1.1 billion board feet of lumber in the provinces of Quebec and British Columbia. We are also conducting an in-depth review of our wood products business with the objective of selling non-core assets, consolidating facilities, and curtailing or closing non-contributing operations. Other wood products producers have also announced closures or curtailments of sawmills. Continued closures and curtailments are likely to reduce the supply and increase the price of wood fiber. See also “Developments in alternative media could continue to adversely affect the demand for our products, especially in North America, and our response to these developments may not be successful.” Our manufacturing businesses may have difficulty obtaining fiber at favorable prices, or at all. Fiber is the principal raw material we use in our business. We use both virgin fiber (wood chips and logs) and recycled fiber (old newspapers and magazines) as fiber sources for our paper mills. Wood fiber is a commodity and prices historically have been cyclical. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in Canada and the United States. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation, litigation advanced by aboriginal groups and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest diversity and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires could also affect timber supplies and the use of timberland. For example, one paper company recently announced conditions on its continued purchase of our pulp containing fiber we harvest from timberland that has been contested by an aboriginal group. Availability of harvested timber may further be limited by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, drought, flooding and other natural and man-made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. Wood fiber pricing is subject to market influences and our cost of wood fiber may increase in particular regions due to market shifts. In 2007, we experienced lower demand and decreased pricing for our wood products due to a weaker U.S. housing market. We are not expecting any significant improvements in the wood products market before 2009. We currently have idled annualized capacity of approximately 1.1 billion board feet of lumber in the provinces of Quebec and British Columbia. We are also conducting an in-depth review of our wood products business with the objective of selling non-core assets, consolidating facilities, and curtailing or closing non-contributing operations. Other wood products producers have also announced closures or curtailments of sawmills. Continued closures and curtailments are likely to reduce the supply and increase the price of wood fiber. Pricing of recycled fiber has recently been increasing. For example, prices of old newspapers have increased from an average of $88 per ton in December 2006 to $127 per ton in February 2008. We believe that these price increases are related to expanding paper and packaging capacity in Asia, as well as strong North American demand, and that prices may remain at elevated levels. Any sustained increase in fiber prices would increase our operating costs and we may be unable to increase prices for our products in response. 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Although we believe that the balance of fiber supply between our internal sources and the open market is adequate to support our current wood products and paper and pulp production requirements, there is no assurance that access to fiber will continue at the same levels achieved in the past. The cost of softwood fiber and the availability of wood chips may be affected. If our cutting rights pursuant to the forest licenses or our forest management agreements are reduced or if any third-party supplier of wood fiber stops selling or is unable to sell wood fiber to us, our financial condition and operating results would suffer. An increase in the cost of our purchased energy, chemicals and other raw materials would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing our margins. Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy such as electricity, natural gas, fuel oil, coal and wood waste. We buy energy and raw materials, including chemicals, wood, recovered paper and other raw materials, primarily on the open market. The prices for raw materials and energy are volatile and may change rapidly, directly affecting our results of operations. The availability of raw materials and energy may also be disrupted by many factors outside our control, adversely affecting our operations. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years and prices for 2005, 2006 and 2007 exceeded historical averages. As a result, fluctuations in energy prices will impact our manufacturing costs and contribute to earnings volatility. We are a major user of renewable natural resources such as water and wood. Accordingly, significant changes in climate and agricultural diseases or infestation could affect our financial condition and results of operations. The volume and value of timber that we can harvest or purchase may be limited by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, flooding, other weather conditions and other causes. As is typical in the industry, we do not maintain insurance for any loss to our standing timber from natural disasters or other causes. Also, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to maintain our rights to utilize water or to renew them at conditions comparable to those currently in effect. For our commodity products, the relationship between industry supply and demand for these products, rather than changes in the cost of raw materials, will determine our ability to increase prices. Consequently, we may be unable to pass along increases in our operating costs to our customers. Any sustained increase in energy, chemical or raw material prices without any corresponding increase in product pricing would reduce our operating margins and potentially require us to limit or cease operations of one or more of our machines. We could experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs due to labor disputes. We believe we are the largest employer in the Canadian pulp and paper sector and have the sector’s largest representation by unions. A significant number of our collective bargaining agreements with respect to our paper operations in Eastern Canada will expire in the second quarter of 2009. In early 2008, we initiated negotiations with the union representing the majority of our Eastern Canadian employees on the 2009 agreements. Those negotiations occurred in March 2008 and were not successful in reaching an early agreement. Our collective agreements for our employees at our facility located in Bridgewater, U.K. is up for renewal in 2008. While negotiations with the unions in the past have resulted in collective agreements being signed, as is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected employees. Renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wage or benefit costs. Therefore, we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations require substantial capital and we may not have adequate capital resources to provide for all of our capital requirements. Our businesses are capital intensive and require that we regularly incur capital expenditures in order to maintain our equipment, increase our operating efficiency and comply with environmental laws. If our available cash resources and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to fund our operating needs and capital expenditures, we would have to obtain additional funds from borrowings or other available sources or reduce or delay our capital expenditures. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms or at all. In addition, our debt service obligations will reduce our available cash flows. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our equipment as we require, we may become unable to manufacture products that compete effectively in one or more of our product lines. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations dealing with trade, employees, transportation, taxes, timber and water rights and the environment. Changes in these laws or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement have required in the past, and could require in the future, substantial expenditures by us and adversely affect our results of operations. For example, changes in environmental laws and regulations have in the past, and could in the future, require us to spend substantial amounts to comply with restrictions on air emissions, wastewater discharge, waste management and landfill sites, including remediation costs. Environmental laws are becoming increasingly stringent and violations could lead to substantive fines and penalties. Consequently, our compliance and remediation costs could increase materially. We are controlled by AbitibiBowater. All of our issued and outstanding common shares are held by AbitibiBowater and its indirect wholly owned subsidiaries. As a result, AbitibiBowater controls our policies and operations. In addition, any synergies generated as a result of the Combination may not benefit Abitibi to the same or a similar extent to which they benefit Bowater, or at all. In addition actions taken by AbitibiBowater and its financial condition, matters over which we have no control, may affect us and the market for the notes. Additionally, adverse developments at AbitibiBowater or any of its other subsidiaries could have an adverse impact on us. Conditions could arise related to our hydroelectric facilities that could adversely affect our results of operations Our hydroelectric facilities supply large amounts of energy for our operations. Our hydroelectric facilities are subject to generally applicable regulations regarding, among other things, environmental compliance, wildlife protection, water quality, capital improvements, and flood control. Changes to applicable regulations could require us to incur additional costs related to our hydroelectric facilities. Hydroelectric power generation is dependent upon the availability of navigable water in the related waterways. We can provide no assurance regarding the water that will be available to us for power generation or regarding our ability to maintain or renew our rights to utilize that water on conditions comparable to those currently in effect. Any reduction in our level of hydroelectric power generation would increase our energy costs. Changes in the political or economic conditions in Canada, the United States or other countries in which our products are manufactured or sold could adversely affect our results of operations. We manufacture products in Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom and sell products throughout the world. Paper prices are tied to the health of the economies of North and South America, Asia and Europe, as well as to paper inventory levels in these regions. The economic and political climate of each region has a significant impact on our costs and the prices of, and demand for, our products. Changes in regional economies or political instability, including acts of war or terrorist activities, can affect the cost of manufacturing and distributing our products, pricing and sales volume, directly affecting our results of operations. Such changes could also affect the availability or cost of insurance. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, timber harvesting, the release, storage, management and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous substances and waste, the clean-up of contaminated sites, landfill operation and closure, forestry operations, threatened and endangered species habitat, and health and safety. As an owner and operator of real estate and manufacturing and processing facilities, we may be liable under environmental laws for cleanup and other costs and damages, including tort liability and damages to natural resources, resulting from past or present spills or releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our current or former properties. We may incur liability under these laws without regard to whether we knew of, were responsible for, or owned the property at the time of, any spill or release of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our property, or at properties where we arranged for the disposal of regulated materials. Claims may arise out of currently unknown environmental conditions or enforcement efforts by governmental or private parties. Under Canada’s regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions proposed in April 2007, existing paper facilities would be required to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 18% by 2010 from 2006 sector 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements average levels, and by an additional 2% annually thereafter. Although we do not expect to be disproportionately affected compared with comparable operations future climate change regulation may require capital investments. We have net liabilities with respect to our pension plans and the actual cost of our pension plan obligations could exceed current provisions. As of December 31, 2007, our defined benefit pension plans were under-funded by approximately $436 million. Our future funding obligations for the defined benefit pension plans depend upon changes to the level of benefits provided by the plans, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine minimum funding levels, actuarial data and experience and any changes in government laws and regulations. Any adverse change to any of these factors may require us to increase our cash contributions to our pension plans and those additional contributions could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates can affect our competitive position, selling prices and manufacturing costs. We compete with North American, European and Asian producers in most of our product lines. Our products are sold and denominated in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars and selected foreign currencies. A substantial portion of our manufacturing costs are denominated in Canadian dollars. In addition to the impact of product supply and demand, changes in the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar may also affect international trade flows of these products. A stronger U.S. dollar may attract imports into North America from foreign producers, increase supply and have a downward effect on prices, while a weaker U.S. dollar may encourage U.S. exports and increase manufacturing costs that are in Canadian dollars or other foreign currencies. Variations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the Euro and the currencies of Canada and the United Kingdom, and certain Asian and Scandinavian countries, could significantly affect our competitive position compared to many of our competitors. We are particularly sensitive to changes in the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar. The impact of these changes depends primarily on our production and sales volume, the proportion of our production and sales that occur in Canada, the proportion of our financial assets and liabilities denominated in Canadian dollars, our hedging levels and the magnitude, and direction and duration of changes in the exchange rate. We expect exchange rate fluctuations to continue to impact costs and revenues; however, we cannot predict the magnitude or direction of this effect for any quarter, and there can be no assurance of any future effects. During 2007, the relative value of the Canadian dollar ranged from a low of $0.85 in January 2007 to a high of $1.09 in November 2007. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk – Price, Cost and Exchange Rate Sensitivity.” Based on exchange rates, hedging levels and operating conditions projected for the first quarter of 2008, we project that a one-cent increase in the Canadian dollar exchange rate would reduce our operating income for the first quarter by approximately $5 million. If the Canadian dollar remains strong for an extended period of time, it could influence the foreign exchange rate assumptions that are used in our evaluation of goodwill and long-lived assets for impairment and, consequently, result in additional goodwill or asset impairment charges. 