Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Company’s Business There is a criminal investigation into pricing practices in the trade in which the Company operates and related class action suits. On April 17, 2008, the Company received a subpoena from the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) seeking documents and information relating to a grand jury investigation of alleged anti-competitive conduct by Puerto Rico ocean carriers. Company representatives have met with United States Justice Department attorneys and pledged the Company’s full and complete cooperation with the DOJ investigation. The Company has made document submissions to the DOJ in response to the subpoena, and its attorneys are in the process of reviewing documents for additional submissions. Following publicity about the DOJ investigation, beginning on April 22, 2008, shippers in the Puerto Rico trade lane have filed at least 34 purported class actions against domestic ocean carriers, including Horizon Lines, Sea Star Lines, and Crowley. The Company has been named as a co-defendant in these lawsuits. The actions allege that the defendants inflated prices in violation of federal antitrust laws and seek treble damages, attorneys’ fees and injunctive relief. The actions, which were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida, the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, and the United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico, have been Page 10 Table of Contents consolidated for pre-trial purposes into a single multi-district litigation proceeding (MDL 1962) in the District Court of Puerto Rico. On March 10, 2009, the Company filed an amended motion to dismiss the claim with the court. On October 20, 2008, four senior officers of two competitors of the Company pled guilty to one-count felony criminal information. They were charged with having engaged in a criminal conspiracy to suppress or eliminate competition in the Puerto Rico freight market, including engaging in discussions and meetings during which agreements were reached to allocate customers, rig bids, and fix rates, surcharges, and other fees charged to customers. The DOJ investigation is a criminal investigation, and the parallel class actions by civil litigants seek remedies that include treble damages. The Company is cooperating fully with the DOJ and intends to defend itself vigorously against the class actions. Significant legal fees and costs are expected to be incurred in connection with the DOJ investigation and the class actions. During 2008, these costs were approximately $1.5 million. The Company is not able to predict the ultimate outcome or cost of the DOJ investigation and class actions. However, should this result in an unfavorable outcome for the Company, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and future operations. Volatility in fuel prices could adversely affect our profitability. While the Company has a series of fuel surcharges in place that seek to adjust revenues with changes in fuel prices, such mechanisms do not act with precision in terms of timing and amount. When fuel prices increase dramatically, rapidly or consistently the surcharge mechanism may not immediately adjust revenues enough to offset the increase in cost to the Company. Additionally, in periods of consistent fuel price increases, the fuel surcharge mechanism may not fully capture the increase in costs. The fuel surcharge is also an area of competition among carriers in the trade and market forces may prohibit the Company from generating enough revenue from the fuel surcharges to offset any increase in costs, which may have a negative affect on our profitability. If we are unable to implement our business strategy, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future results of operations will depend in significant part on the extent to which we can implement our business strategy successfully. Our business strategy includes using our superior hard assets and operating systems to continue providing cost advantages, pursuing other operating strategies to further enhance efficiencies and reduce costs, expanding our share of the Puerto Rico market and replicating our business model in other markets. Our strategy is subject to business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. As a consequence, we may not be able to fully implement our strategy or realize the anticipated results of our strategy. We have no control over economic factors that could adversely affect our business. We have no control over economic factors such as fuel prices, fuel tax, interest rate fluctuations, recessions or customers’ business cycles. Significant increases in fuel or other operating costs and interest rates, to the extent not offset by increases in freight rates or fuel surcharges, would adversely affect our operating results. Economic recessions, temporary inventory imbalances or downturns in customers’ business cycles also could have a material adverse effect upon our operating results. If the resale value of our revenue equipment were to decline, we could receive less upon the disposition of our equipment or find it necessary to retain our equipment longer, with a resulting increase in our operating expenses. The marine and trucking industries are cyclical with corresponding changes in revenue and profits. Changes Page 11 Table of Contents in economic and trade growth as well as changes in the supply and demand of vessel and trucking capacity can impact both rates and resale values. The amount and timing of new vessel deliveries to competing carriers in the Puerto Rico market and rate reductions from increased capacity, excess capacity or slow market growth could result in rate instability that could have a material adverse effect upon us. The Company has experienced losses in the past. Due primarily to the overcapacity and intense competition in the Puerto Rico market during the late 1990’s and early 2000’s, the Company experienced significant financial losses and associated negative cash flow during that time. Despite operating income for the Company in 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008, the Company cannot assure that it will continue to generate operating income and positive cash flow. For example, the Company cannot assure that a new marine freight carrier will not commence operations in the Puerto Rico market. Most of its competitors have substantially greater financial resources, operate more equipment, or carry a larger volume of freight than the Company does. The Company’s operations are dependent on a limited fleet and special loading structures. The Company’s current operations depend on four vessels and triple deck loading ramps at its port facilities in Jacksonville and San Juan, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The operation of any marine vessel involves the risk of catastrophic events due to various perils of sea. In addition, port facilities in Jacksonville, San Juan and Puerto Plata are vulnerable to the risk of hurricanes. In the event of either a total loss of or major damage to its vessels or ramps, the Company cannot assure that the Company could locate suitable replacements, or if available, that such replacements could be obtained on suitable terms. The Company also could be adversely affected if unexpected maintenance or repairs are required for either of the custom configured ramp systems the Company uses. Although its vessels are insured for loss, the Company does not maintain business interruption insurance and the Company’s vessel insurance might not be high enough to build replacement vessels. Accordingly, the Company cannot assure that the loss of, damage to or significant required repair to any of its vessels or port facilities in the future would not have a material adverse effect on its cash flow. A substantial part of the Company’s revenue is produced in a single market, which makes it susceptible to changes that could adversely affect its results. The vast majority of its revenue is attributable to freight moving either to or from Puerto Rico. Its reliance on the Puerto Rico market makes it susceptible to a downturn in the local economy, local economic and competitive factors changes in government regulations and political changes that the Company cannot predict. The Company’s operation is highly leveraged and a downturn in freight volume in the Puerto Rico trade lane would have a material adverse effect on its cash flow. Repeal or substantial amendment of the Jones Act could adversely affect its business. The Jones Act provides that all vessels operating between ports in the United States, including the noncontiguous areas of Puerto Rico, Alaska and Hawaii, must be built, owned, operated and crewed substantially by U.S. citizens. The Jones Act continues to be in effect, however, the Company cannot assure that the Jones Act will not be repealed or amended in the future. If the Jones Act were to be repealed or substantially amended and, as a consequence, competition were to increase in the Puerto Rico market, the Company’s business and cash flow could be adversely affected. Page 12 Table of Contents Changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof, adverse tax audits and other tax matters related to the Company’s tonnage tax election or such tax may adversely affect future results. The Company elected to be taxed according to the tonnage tax instead of the federal corporate income tax on income from its qualifying shipping activities on its 2007 federal tax return. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof, adverse tax audits, and other tax matters related to such tax election or such tax may adversely affect the Company’s future results. During the fourth quarter of 2007, a draft of a Technical Corrections Act proposed redefining the Puerto Rico trade to not qualify for application of the tonnage tax. The tax writing committee in Congress removed the tonnage tax repeal language from the Technical Corrections Act before its passage, but the Company cannot assure that there will not be future efforts to repeal all, or any portion of, the tonnage tax as it applies to the Company’s shipping activities. Profitability of service to Dominican Republic is uncertain. In August 2007, the Company instituted a new sailing on a bi-weekly basis between and among Jacksonville, Florida, San Juan, Puerto Rico and Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic. The implementation of the new sailing required additional investment in new container equipment. The Company modified its schedule in 2008 to service this market as part of its service to Puerto Rico without requiring an extra sailing. Even with this modification there is no assurance that this service to the Dominican Republic will remain profitable. Intense competition in our industry could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The trucking industry is highly competitive and fragmented and the Puerto Rico freight market is also highly competitive. We currently compete with other truckload carriers that provide domestic dry van service, private fleets operated by existing and potential customers, and marine carriers that provide ocean service between the continental U.S. and Puerto Rico. Competition for the freight we transport is based primarily on freight rates, and, to a lesser degree, on service and efficiency. Most of our current and future competitors have substantially greater financial resources, operate more equipment, or carry a larger volume of freight than we do. We are susceptible to severe weather and natural disasters. Our operations are vulnerable to disruption as a result of weather and natural disasters such as bad weather at sea and hurricanes. Such events will interfere with our ability to provide the on-time scheduled service our customers demand resulting in increased expenses and potential loss of business associated with such events. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters can result in interference with our terminal operations, and may cause significant damage to our vessels and ramps, loss or damage to containers, cargo and other equipment and loss of life or physical injury to our employees. Terminals on the east coast of the continental U.S. and in the Caribbean are particularly susceptible to hurricanes. Any damage caused by natural disasters may not be fully covered by insurance. Restrictions on foreign ownership of our vessels could prevent us from conducting operations in the United States domestic trade. In order to maintain the eligibility of the Company to own and operate vessels in compliance with the Jones Act, 75% of the outstanding capital stock and voting power of the Company is required to be held by U.S. citizens. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation contains provisions limiting non-citizenship ownership of its capital stock and requiring non-citizens to divest the shares of capital stock that they own in excess of these limits. However, the Company could lose its ability to conduct operations in the U.S. domestic trade if such provisions prove unsuccessful in maintaining the required level of citizen ownership, which would require us to shut down all but a very small portion of our current business. Page 13 Table of Contents Loss of our key management personnel could adversely affect our business. In December 2008, the Company’s CEO and Vice Chairman left the management of the Company. Our future success will depend, in significant part, upon the services of our President and interim CEO, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, our Chief Financial Officer and our other officers. The loss of the services of any of these executive officers could adversely affect our future operating results because of such officer’s experience and knowledge of our business and customer relationships. We do not maintain key person insurance on any of our executive officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 