Item 1A. Risk Factors The failure of our existing or new restaurants to achieve expected results could have a negative impact on our revenues and financial results, including potential impairment of the long-lived assets of our restaurants, and could negatively impact our stock price. We operated 197 full service Bistro restaurants and 166 quick casual Pei Wei restaurants as of January 3, 2010, 15 of which opened within the last twelve months. The results achieved by these restaurants may not be indicative of longer term performance or the potential market acceptance of restaurants in other locations. There can be no assurance that any new restaurant that we open will have similar operating results to those of prior restaurants. Our new restaurants commonly take several months to reach planned operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants, including the training of new personnel, lack of market awareness, inability to hire sufficient staff and other factors. The failure of our existing or new restaurants to perform as expected could have a significant negative impact. We are subject to a number of significant risks that might cause our actual results to vary materially from our historical results or future projections including: • lower customer traffic or average guest check, which negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income, operating margins and earnings per share, due to: • the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased competition generally; • lack of customer acceptance of new menu items or potential price increases necessary to cover higher input costs; • unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, downturns in the housing market, higher interest rates, higher unemployment rates, lower disposable income due to higher energy or other consumer costs, lower consumer confidence, and other events or factors that adversely affect consumer spending; • customers trading down to lower priced items and/or shifting to competitors with lower priced products; or • changes in consumer preferences or declines in general consumer demand for Asian menu items • cost increases that are either wholly or partially beyond our control, such as: • costs for commodities that we do not or cannot effectively hedge; • labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market wage levels and workers’ compensation insurance costs; • operating expenses, such as utilities and other expenses that are impacted by energy price fluctuations; • fair value fluctuations related to our cash-settled share-based compensation awards; 7 Table of Contents • litigation against the Company, particularly class action litigation; • construction costs associated with new store openings; • information technology costs and other logistical resources necessary to maintain and support the global growth of our business; and • material interruptions in our supply chain, such as a material interruption of ingredient supply due to the failures of third-party suppliers, or interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels Additionally, we have historically experienced variability in the amount and percentage of revenues attributable to preopening expenses. We typically incur the most significant portion of preopening expenses associated with a given restaurant within the two months immediately preceding and the month of the opening of the restaurant. Our experience has been that labor and operating costs associated with a newly opened restaurant for the first several months of operation are materially greater than what can be expected after that time, both in aggregate dollars and as a percentage of revenues. Accordingly, the volume and timing of new restaurant openings has had, and may continue to have, a meaningful impact on preopening expenses as well as labor and operating costs. Due to the foregoing factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for a full fiscal year and these fluctuations may cause our operating results to be below expectations of public market analysts and investors, adversely impacting our stock price. Changes in general economic and political conditions could affect consumer spending and may harm our revenues, operating results or liquidity. General weak economic conditions may continue throughout fiscal 2010. As a result, our customers may continue to remain apprehensive about the economy and maintain or further reduce their already lowered level of discretionary spending. This could impact the frequency with which our customers choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals while dining out, thereby decreasing our revenues and potentially negatively affecting our operating results. Additionally, we believe there is a risk that if the current negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or become more pervasive, consumers might make long-lasting changes to their discretionary spending behavior, including dining out less frequently on a more permanent basis. Changes in government legislation may increase our labor costs and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. A substantial number of our restaurant personnel are hourly workers whose wage rates are affected by increases in the federal or state minimum wage or changes to tip credits. Tip credits are the amounts an employer is permitted to assume an employee receives in tips when the employer calculates the employee’s hourly wage for minimum wage compliance purposes. FICA tip credits resulting from tip credit reporting are also a significant factor when calculating the Company’s effective tax rate. Mandated increases in minimum wage levels and changes to the tip credit have recently been and continue to be proposed and implemented at both federal and state government levels. Additionally, as minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wages of our minimum wage employees but also the wages paid to employees at wage rates that are above minimum wage. Future legislation that increases minimum wage rates or changes allowable tip credits may increase our labor costs or effective tax rate and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, potential changes in labor legislation, including all or parts of the Employee Free Choice Act (“EFCA”), could result in portions of our workforce being subjected to greater organized labor influence. The EFCA, also referred to as the “card check” bill, could impact the nature of labor relations in the United States, specifically, how union elections and contract negotiations are conducted. The EFCA aims to make it easier for unions to form, and employers of unionized employees may face mandatory, binding arbitration of labor scheduling, costs and standards, which could increase the costs of doing business. Although we do not currently have any union employees, EFCA or similar labor legislation could have an adverse effect on our business and 8 Table of Contents financial results by imposing requirements that could potentially increase costs, reduce flexibility and impact our ability to service our guests. We are dependent on sales concentrated in certain geographic areas as well as sales generated by corporate spending. Our financial performance is highly dependent on restaurants located in California, Arizona, Nevada and Florida which comprise one-third of our total store population. Additionally, restaurants located in Texas comprise almost 20 percent of our total store population. In recent years, certain of these states have been more negatively impacted by the housing downturn, unemployment and the overall economic crisis than other geographic areas. As a result, we have seen a more substantial decline in guest traffic at some of our restaurants in these locations, which has adversely affected the operations of the company as a whole. If we are unable to improve operating performance in these geographic areas, our financial results will continue to be adversely affected. Our business is also influenced by the level of corporate travel and entertainment spending by businesses as a significant portion of our sales is generated by guests conducting business at our restaurants. During fiscal 2009, there was a considerable reduction in business travel and corporate spending in general, which negatively impacted our revenues. Such reduced spending could continue to have a significant negative impact on our financial results until such time as corporate spending increases. Intense competition in the restaurant industry could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price-value relationships, ambiance, service and location, and many restaurants compete with us at each of our locations. Our competitors at the Bistro concept include mid-price, full service, casual dining restaurants. For Pei Wei, our main competitors are other value-priced, quick-service concepts as well as locally owned and operated Asian restaurants. There are a number of well-established competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than ours, and many of our competitors are well established in the markets where we have restaurants, or in which we intend to locate restaurants. Additionally, other companies may develop restaurants that operate with similar concepts and the rising popularity of Asian food may result in increased competition from non-Asian restaurants as well as other food outlets. Any inability to successfully compete with the other restaurants in our markets may prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may also need to modify or refine elements of our restaurant system to evolve our concepts in order to compete with popular new restaurant formats or concepts that develop from time to time. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in implementing these modifications or that these modifications will not reduce our profitability. Global Brand Development initiatives could negatively impact our brand. Our business expansion into international markets and retail product licensing could create new risks to our brand and reputation. We believe that we have selected high-caliber International operating partners with significant experience in restaurant operations; however, there is risk that our brand could be harmed if customers have negative experiences at International Bistro locations due to issues with food quality or operational execution. Our new line of premium frozen Asian-style entrées is expected to be available in retail outlets during fiscal 2010. We believe that this new retail product offering is a growth opportunity that allows our brand to reach more customers more often. Though we believe our guests will view it as a different experience from dining in our restaurants, there is a risk that guests may be inclined to visit our restaurants less frequently due to the availability of similar products in retail outlets or they may develop a lower opinion of our brand due to issues with food quality or overall product expectations. If customers have negative perceptions or experiences at International restaurants or with retail products, our brand value could suffer which could have an adverse effect on our business. 9 Table of Contents Damage to our brands or reputation could negatively impact our business. Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and our reputation for offering a high quality, memorable experience to our guests. Our brands have been highly rated in annual consumer studies such as Restaurants & Institutions’ annual Choice in Chains survey in which P.F. Chang’s won honors in the casual dining and Asian categories as well as across numerous demographic groups during fiscal 2009. We believe that we must protect and grow the value of our brands to continue to be successful in the future. Any incident that erodes consumer trust in or affinity for our brands could significantly reduce their value. If consumers perceive or experience a reduction in food quality, service, ambiance or in any way believes we failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, our brand value could suffer which could have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, multi-unit food service businesses such as ours can be materially and adversely affected by widespread negative publicity of any type, particularly regarding food quality, illness or public health issues (such as epidemics or the prospect of a pandemic), safety, injury or other health concerns. We have taken steps to mitigate each of these risks. To minimize the risk of food-borne illness, we have implemented a HACCP system for managing food safety and quality. Nevertheless, these risks cannot be completely eliminated and any outbreak of illness attributed to our restaurants or within the food service industry in general could cause a decline in our sales and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are, from time to time, the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food borne illnesses, injuries or other food quality, health or operational concerns. We may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately determined to be liable. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from former or prospective employees from time to time as well as vendors, landlords, and other third-parties. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the costs and expense of defending ourselves against lawsuits or claims, regardless of merit, could have an adverse impact on our profitability and could cause variability in our results compared to expectations. We are subject to state “dram shop” laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. While we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, or at all. Adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products or new information or attitudes regarding diet and health could result in changes in regulations and consumer eating habits that could adversely affect our business. Multi-unit restaurant operators and foodservice operations have received more scrutiny from regulators and health organizations in recent years relating to the health effects of consuming certain products. Regulations and consumer eating habits may change as a result of new information or attitudes regarding diet and health. Although our menu provides a range of healthy options, an unfavorable report on our menu ingredients, the size of our portions or the consumption of our menu items could influence the demand for our offerings. These changes may include regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu items. For example, a number of states, counties and cities are enacting menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to make certain nutritional information available to guests or restrict the sales of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. The success of our restaurant operations is dependent, in part, upon our ability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations and to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. If consumer health regulations or consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or delete certain menu items. We may experience higher costs associated with the implementation and oversight of such changes. To the extent we are unable to respond with appropriate changes to our menu offerings, it could materially affect customer demand and have an adverse impact on our business. 10 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with governmental regulations could harm our business and our reputation. We are subject to regulation by federal agencies and to licensing and regulation by state and local health, sanitation, building, zoning, safety, fire and other departments relating to the development and operation of restaurants. These regulations include matters relating to: • the environment; • building construction; • zoning requirements; • the preparation and sale of food and alcoholic beverages; • employment; and • integrity and security of data. Our facilities are licensed and subject to regulation under state and local fire, health and safety codes. The development and construction of additional restaurants will be subject to compliance with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. We may not be able to obtain necessary licenses or other approvals on a cost-effective and timely basis in order to construct and develop restaurants in the future. Various federal and state labor laws govern our operations and our relationship with our employees, including minimum wage, overtime, working conditions, fringe benefit and citizenship requirements. In particular, we are subject to the regulations of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, or BCIS. The United States Congress has recently been considering changes to Federal immigration laws and various states, some of which where we have significant operations, are also in the process of considering or have already adopted new immigration laws. Some of these new laws may adversely affect our operations by increasing our obligations for compliance and oversight. Although we require all workers to provide us with the government-specified documentation evidencing their employment eligibility, some of our employees may, without our knowledge, be unauthorized workers. Unauthorized workers are subject to seizure and deportation and may subject us to fines, penalties or loss of our business license in certain jurisdictions. Any material disruption of our business, as a result of seizure of our workers, changes in immigration law, or significantly increased labor costs at our facilities in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In fiscal 2009, approximately 14 percent of our revenues at the Bistro and 1 percent of revenues at Pei Wei were attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. We are required to comply with the alcohol licensing requirements of the federal government, states and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require applications to state authorities and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of the restaurants, including minimum age of guests and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. If we fail to comply with federal, state or local regulations, our licenses may be revoked and we may be forced to terminate the sale of alcoholic beverages at one or more of our restaurants. We receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and employees. The use of this information by us is regulated at the federal and state levels. If our security and information systems are compromised or our business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as results of operations, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure we remain in compliance. The federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. We are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and regulations relating to accommodating the needs of the disabled in connection with the construction of new facilities and with significant renovations of existing facilities. 11 Table of Contents Failure to comply with these and other regulations could negatively impact our business and our reputation. Changes in food costs could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Our profitability is dependent in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Other than for a portion of our commodities, such as produce, which are purchased locally by each restaurant, we rely on Distribution Market Advantage, a cooperative of multiple food distributors located throughout the nation, as the primary distributor of our ingredients. We have a non-exclusive contract with Distribution Market Advantage on terms and conditions that we believe are consistent with those made available to similarly situated restaurant companies. Although we believe that alternative distribution sources are available, any increase in distribution prices or failure to perform by the Distribution Market Advantage could cause our food costs to fluctuate. Any disruption in the supply of specialty items from China due to quality or availability issues could also cause our food costs to fluctuate. Additional factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions and governmental regulation, may affect our food costs. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs through our purchasing practices and menu price adjustments in the future, and failure to do so could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Our inability to retain key personnel could negatively impact our business. Our success will continue to be highly dependent on our key operating officers and employees. We must continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel, including regional managers, general managers and executive chefs, to maintain consistency in the quality and atmosphere of our restaurants. Additionally, the ability of these key personnel to maintain consistency in the quality of our product offerings and service and atmosphere of our restaurants is a critical factor in our success. Any failure to attract, retain and motivate key personnel may harm our reputation and result in a loss of business. Development is critical to our long-term success. Critical to our long-term future success is our ability to successfully expand our operations. We have expanded from seven restaurants at the end of 1996 to 363 restaurants as of January 3, 2010. We expect to open three to five new Bistro restaurants and three to five new Pei Wei restaurants during fiscal 2010. Our ability to expand successfully will depend on a number of factors, including: • identification and availability of suitable locations; • competition for restaurant sites; • negotiation of favorable lease arrangements; • timely development of commercial, residential, street or highway construction near our restaurants; • management of the costs of construction and development of new restaurants; • securing required governmental approvals and permits; • recruitment of qualified operating personnel, particularly managers and chefs; • weather conditions; • competition in new markets; and • general economic conditions, including those arising from the current economic crisis described above. The opening of additional restaurants in the future will depend in part upon our ability to generate sufficient funds from operations or to obtain sufficient equity or debt financing on favorable terms to support our expansion as well as the availability of high-quality commercial real estate projects of the type we typically target for new locations. We may not be able to open our planned new restaurants on a timely basis, if at all, and, if opened, these restaurants may not be operated profitably. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, delays in restaurant openings from time to time. Delays or failures in opening planned new restaurants could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 12 Table of Contents Federal, state and local tax rules can adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the U.S. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the IRS or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken on our tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Complying with new tax rules, laws or regulations could impact our financial condition and increases to federal or state statutory tax rates and other changes in tax laws, rules or regulations may increase our effective tax rate. Any increase in our effective tax rate could have a material impact on our financial results. Fluctuating insurance requirements and costs could negatively impact our profitability and projections. The cost of workers’ compensation insurance, general liability insurance and directors and officers’ liability insurance fluctuates based on market conditions and availability as well as our historical trends. We self-insure a substantial portion of our workers’ compensation and general liability costs and unfavorable changes in trends could have a negative impact on our profitability. Additionally, health insurance costs in general have risen significantly over the past few years and are expected to continue to increase in 2010. These increases, as well as potential legislation requirements for employers to provide specified levels of health insurance to all employees, could have a negative impact on our profitability if we are not able to offset the effect of such increases with plan modifications and cost control measures, or by continuing to improve our operating efficiencies. Our marketing programs may not be successful. We have significantly increased in our marketing expenditures over the past few years and expect to continue investing in campaigns and initiatives designed to attract and retain guests. These efforts may not be successful, resulting in expenses incurred without the benefit of higher revenues. Potential labor shortages may delay planned openings or damage customer relations. Our success will continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including kitchen staff and wait staff, to work our restaurants. Our inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants while high employee turnover in existing restaurants may negatively impact customer service and customer relations, resulting in an adverse effect on our revenues or results of operations. The inability to develop and construct our restaurants within projected budgets and time periods could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Each of our restaurants is distinctively designed to accommodate particular characteristics of each location and to blend local or regional design themes with our principal trade dress and other common design elements. This presents each location with its own development and construction risks. Many factors may affect the costs and timeframes associated with the development and construction of our restaurants, including: • landlord delays; • labor disputes; • shortages of materials and skilled labor; • weather interference; • unforeseen engineering problems; • environmental problems; 13 Table of Contents • construction or zoning problems; • local government regulations; • modifications in design to the size and scope of the projects; and • other unanticipated increases in costs, any of which could give rise to delays or cost overruns. If we are not able to develop additional restaurants within anticipated budgets or time periods, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. The seasonality of our business could result in fluctuations in our financial performance Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our sales volumes are generally higher in the winter months and lower in the summer months, which can cause fluctuations in our operating results from quarter-to-quarter within a fiscal year. As a result, results of operations for any single quarter are not indicative of results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Additionally, quarterly fluctuations in our results can impact the amount of quarterly cash dividend payments, which are based on a fixed percentage of net income. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Some of the statements in this Form 10-K and the documents we incorporate by reference constitute forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terms such as “may”, “will”, “should”, “expect”, “plan”, “intend”, “forecast”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “predict”, “potential”, “continue” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements contained in this document involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and situations that may cause our or our industry’s actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these statements. Factors that might cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements may include the matters listed under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, including, but not limited to, failure of our existing or new restaurants to achieve predicted results, changes in general economic and political conditions and changes in government legislation may increase our labor costs. Because we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements, undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents 