Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Company's Business The Company has a history of losses. Due primarily to the overcapacity and intense competition in the Puerto Rico lane during the late 1990's and early 2000's, the Company experienced significant financial losses and associated negative cash-flow. As a result of these financial losses, in December 2001 the Company discontinued its Northeast service between Newark, New Jersey and San Juan, Puerto Rico, which had commenced in 1998 and had incurred significant losses since that time. During 2003 and 2004, primarily as a result of the bankruptcy and liquidation of Navieras, Inc. (NPR), the Puerto Rico lane stabilized and competition became less intense. As a result, the Company increased utilization of its vessels during 2003 and saw the severe rate compression that had occurred since 1998 begin to unwind in 2004. Despite this reduction in overcapacity and its resulting improved financial condition, the Company cannot assure you that it will continue to be profitable and continue to generate positive cash flow. For example, the Company cannot assure you that a new marine freight carrier will not commence operations in the Puerto Rico lane. Any increase in competition in the Puerto Rico lane could result in reduced utilization of its vessels, lower rates and reduced profitability and cash flow. Competition for the freight the Company transports is based primarily on freight rates, and, to a lesser degree, on service and efficiency. Most of its competitors have substantially greater financial resources, operate more equipment, or carry a larger volume of freight than the Company does. The Company's operations are dependent on a limited fleet and special loading structures. The Company's current operations depend on four vessels and triple deck loading ramps at its port facilities in Jacksonville, Florida and San Juan, Puerto Rico, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on us. The operation of any marine vessel involves the risk of catastrophic events due to various perils of sea. In addition, port facilities in Jacksonville and San Juan are vulnerable to the risk of hurricanes. In the event of either a total loss of or major damage to its vessels or ramps, the Company cannot assure you that the Company could locate suitable replacements, or if available, that such replacements could be obtained on suitable terms. The Company also could be adversely affected if unexpected maintenance or repairs are required for either of the custom configured ramp systems the Company uses. Although its vessels are insured for loss, the Company does not maintain business interruption insurance. Accordingly, the Company cannot assure you that the loss of, damage to or significant required repair to any of its vessels or port facilities in the future would not have a material adverse effect on its cash flow. The Company currently relies on a single market, which makes us susceptible to changes that could adversely affect its results. Page 9 Most of its revenue is attributable to freight moving either to or from Puerto Rico. Its reliance on the Puerto Rico market makes us susceptible to a downturn in the local economy, local economic and competitive factors, changes in government regulations and political changes that the Company cannot predict. If the Company is unable to renew its existing port leases and stevedoring services arrangement, its business may be interrupted and its financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company currently leases its port facility in Jacksonville, Florida and operates its port facility in San Juan, Puerto Rico pursuant to a stevedoring services arrangement. Its port lease in Jacksonville expires in 2013 and its stevedoring arrangement in San Juan expires in November 2006. An extension is currently being negotiated. Port facilities in San Juan are limited but are regulated by the Federal Maritime Commission. The Company cannot assure you that the Company will be able to renew these agreements when they expire. If the Company is unable to renew these agreements, the Company would have to relocate its operations, which could interrupt its business and require significant capital expenditures because its current facilities are specially configured for us. Repeal or substantial amendment of the Jones Act could adversely affect its business The Jones Act provides that all vessels operating between ports in the United States, including the noncontiguous areas of Puerto Rico, Alaska, Hawaii and Guam, must be built, owned, operated and crewed substantially by U.S. citizens. The Jones Act continues to be in effect and supported by the U.S. Congress and the current administration. However, the Company can not assure you that the Jones Act will not be repealed or amended in the future. If the Jones Act were to be repealed or substantially amended and, as a consequence, competition were to increase in the Puerto Rico market, its business and cash flow could be adversely affected. In addition, its advantage as a U.S.-citizen operator of Jones Act vessels could be somewhat eroded over time as there continue to be periodic efforts and attempts by foreign interests to circumvent certain aspects of the Jones Act. A change in its tug charter hire arrangement could adversely affect its costs. The Company currently charters its tugs under an arrangement with an affiliate of one of its competitors. This arrangement extends through June 2006 with two one-year options to extend at then current market prices. The Company cannot assure you that this arrangement will continue in the future or that the Company could find an alternate arrangement with comparable terms. While there are alternate tug providers, tug charter on terms less beneficial to us than its current arrangement could have a material adverse affect on its tug/barge system operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 