Item 1A. Risk Factors Failure of our existing or new restaurants to achieve predicted results could have a negative impact on our revenues and performance results. We operated 152 full service Bistro restaurants, 107 quick casual Pei Wei restaurants and one Taneko restaurant as of December 31, 2006, 51 of which opened within the last twelve months. The results achieved by these restaurants may not be indicative of longer term performance or the potential market acceptance of restaurants in other locations. We cannot be assured that any new restaurant that we open will have similar operating results to those of prior restaurants. Our new restaurants commonly take several months to reach planned operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants, including lack of market awareness, inability to hire sufficient staff and other factors. The failure of our existing or new restaurants to perform as predicted could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. The inability to develop and construct our restaurants within projected budgets and time periods will adversely affect our business and financial condition. Each of our full service and quick casual restaurants is distinctively designed to accommodate particular characteristics of each location and to blend local or regional design themes with our principal trade dress and other common design elements. This presents each location with its own development and construction risks. Many factors may affect the costs associated with the development and construction of our restaurants, including: • landlord delays; • labor disputes; • shortages of materials and skilled labor; • weather interference; • unforeseen engineering problems; • environmental problems; • construction or zoning problems; • local government regulations; • modifications in design to the size and scope of the projects; and • other unanticipated increases in costs, any of which could give rise to delays or cost overruns. If we are not able to develop additional restaurants within anticipated budgets or time periods, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents Development is critical to our success. Critical to our future success is our ability to successfully expand our operations. We have expanded from seven restaurants at the end of 1996 to 260 restaurants as of December 31, 2006. We expect to open 19 Bistros and 37 Pei Wei restaurants during fiscal 2007. Our ability to expand successfully will depend on a number of factors, including: • identification and availability of suitable locations; • competition for restaurant sites; • negotiation of favorable lease arrangements; • timely development of commercial, residential, street or highway construction near our restaurants; • management of the costs of construction and development of new restaurants; • securing required governmental approvals and permits; • recruitment of qualified operating personnel, particularly managers and chefs; • weather conditions; • competition in new markets; and • general economic conditions. The opening of additional restaurants in the future will depend in part upon our ability to generate sufficient funds from operations or to obtain sufficient equity or debt financing on favorable terms to support our expansion. We may not be able to open our planned new operations on a timely basis, if at all, and, if opened, these restaurants may not be operated profitably. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, delays in restaurant openings from time to time. Delays or failures in opening planned new restaurants could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Increases in the minimum wage may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Many of our employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. The federal minimum wage has remained at $5.15 per hour since September 1, 1997 and will very likely be increased during 2007. Additionally, many of our employees work in restaurants located in states where the minimum wage is greater than the federal minimum and receive compensation equal to the state’s minimum wage. During 2006, eleven states increased their minimum wage by an average of eleven percent. There may be similar increases implemented in other jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. These minimum wage increases may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in general economic and political conditions affect consumer spending and may harm our revenues and operating results. Our country’s economic condition affects our customers’ levels of discretionary spending. A decrease in discretionary spending due to decreases in consumer confidence in the economy could impact the frequency with which our customers choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals while dining out, thereby decreasing our revenues and operating results. Intense competition in the restaurant industry could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price-value relationships, ambiance, service and location, and many restaurants compete with us at each of our locations. Our competitors at the Bistro concept include mid-price, full service, casual dining restaurants. For Pei Wei, our main competitors are other value-priced, quick-service concepts as well as locally owned and operated Asian restaurants. There are a number of well-established competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than ours, and many of our competitors are well established in the markets where we have restaurants, 8 Table of Contents or in which we intend to locate restaurants. Additionally, other companies may develop restaurants that operate with similar concepts and the rising popularity of Asian food may result in increased competition from non-Asian restaurants as they increase the number of Asian-inspired menu offerings. Any inability to successfully compete with the other restaurants in our markets will prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may also need to modify or refine elements of our restaurant system to evolve our concepts in order to compete with popular new restaurant formats or concepts that develop from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing these modifications or that these modifications will not reduce our profitability. Our inability to retain key personnel could negatively impact our business. Our success will continue to be highly dependent on our key operating officers and employees. We must continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel, including regional managers, general managers and executive chefs, to keep pace with an aggressive expansion schedule. Individuals of this caliber are historically in short supply and this shortage may limit our ability to effectively penetrate new market areas. Additionally, the ability of these key personnel to maintain consistency in the quality and atmosphere of our restaurants is a critical factor in our success. Any failure to do so may harm our reputation and result in a loss of business. Implementing our growth strategy may strain our management resources and negatively impact our competitive position. Our growth strategy may strain our management, financial and other resources. We must maintain a high level of quality and service at our existing and future restaurants, continue to enhance our operational, financial and management capabilities and locate, hire, train and retain experienced and dedicated operating personnel, particularly managers and chefs. We may not be able to effectively manage these and other factors necessary to permit us to achieve our expansion objectives, and any failure to do so could negatively impact our competitive position. Potential labor shortages may delay planned openings or damage customer relations. Our success will continue to be dependent on our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including kitchen staff and wait staff, to keep pace with our expansion schedule. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions are in short supply in certain areas. Our inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants while high employee turnover in existing restaurants may negatively impact customer service and customer relations, resulting in an adverse effect on our revenues or results of operations. Changes in food costs could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Our profitability is dependent in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Other than for a portion of our commodities, like produce, which is purchased locally by each restaurant, we rely on Distribution Market Advantage as the primary distributor of our ingredients. Distribution Market Advantage is a cooperative of multiple food distributors located throughout the nation. We have a non-exclusive contract with Distribution Market Advantage on terms and conditions which we believe are consistent with those made available to similarly situated restaurant companies. Although we believe that alternative distribution sources are available, any increase in distribution prices or failure to perform by the Distribution Market Advantage could cause our food costs to fluctuate. Additional factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions and governmental regulation, may affect our food costs. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs through our purchasing practices and menu price adjustments in the future, and failure to do so could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are, from time to time, the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food borne illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. We may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such 9 Table of Contents allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from former or prospective employees from time to time. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the costs and expense of defending ourselves against lawsuits or claims, regardless of merit, could have an adverse impact on our profitability and could cause variability in our results compared to expectations. We are subject to state “dram shop” laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. While we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, or at all. Our federal, state and local tax returns may, from time to time, be selected for audit by the taxing authorities, which may result in tax assessments or penalties that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the U.S. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the IRS or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the company on its tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Fluctuating insurance requirements and costs could negatively impact profitability and projections. The cost of workers compensation insurance, general liability insurance and directors and officers liability insurance fluctuates based on market conditions and availability as well as our historical trends. We self-insure a substantial portion of our workers compensation and general liability costs and unfavorable changes in trends could have a negative impact on our profitability. Additionally, health insurance costs in general have risen significantly over the past few years and are expected to continue to increase in 2007. These increases, as well as potential state legislation requirements for employers to provide health insurance to employees, could have a negative impact on our profitability if we are not able to negate the effect of such increases with plan modifications and cost control measures, or by continuing to improve our operating efficiencies. Our operating expenses may increase in the future and may negatively impact our profitability. Operating expenses, such as utilities and other expenses impacted by fuel price fluctuations, are not fixed and may continue to increase in the future. If we are not able to leverage these increases with operating efficiencies or price increases, they will negatively impact our operating results. Fluctuations in operating results may negatively impact our stock price. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including: • general economic conditions; • consumer confidence in the economy; • changes in consumer preferences; • competitive factors, including the performance of restaurant stocks; • weather conditions; • timing of new restaurant openings and related expenses; • revenues contributed by new restaurants; and • increases or decreases in comparable restaurant revenues. 10 Table of Contents Additionally, we have historically experienced variability in the amount and percentage of revenues attributable to preopening expenses. We typically incur the most significant portion of preopening expenses associated with a given restaurant within the two months immediately preceding and the month of the opening of the restaurant. Our experience to date has been that labor and operating costs associated with a newly opened restaurant for the first several months of operation are materially greater than what can be expected after that time, both in aggregate dollars and as a percentage of revenues. Accordingly, the volume and timing of new restaurant openings has had, and is expected to continue to have, a meaningful impact on preopening expenses as well as labor and operating costs. Due to the foregoing factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for a full fiscal year and these fluctuations may cause our operating results to be below expectations of public market analysts and investors, resulting in a lowering of our stock price. Failure to comply with governmental regulations could harm our business and our reputation. We are subject to regulation by federal agencies and to licensing and regulation by state and local health, sanitation, building, zoning, safety, fire and other departments relating to the development and operation of restaurants. These regulations include matters relating to: • the environment; • building construction; • zoning requirements; • the preparation and sale of food and alcoholic beverages; and • employment. Our facilities are licensed and subject to regulation under state and local fire, health and safety codes. The development and construction of additional restaurants will be subject to compliance with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. We may not be able to obtain necessary licenses or other approvals on a cost-effective and timely basis in order to construct and develop restaurants in the future. Various federal and state labor laws govern our operations and our relationship with our employees, including minimum wage, overtime, working conditions, fringe benefit and citizenship requirements. In particular, we are subject to the regulations of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, or BCIS. Even if we operate those restaurants in strict compliance with BCIS requirements, our employees may not all meet federal citizenship or residency requirements, which could lead to disruptions in our work force. Our business can be adversely affected by negative publicity resulting from complaints or litigation alleging poor food quality, food-borne illness or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. Unfavorable publicity could taint public perception of our restaurants. Approximately 15 percent of our revenues at the Bistro, two percent at Pei Wei and 30 percent at Taneko are attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. We are required to comply with the alcohol licensing requirements of the federal government, states and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require applications to state authorities and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of the restaurants, including minimum age of guests and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. If we fail to comply with federal, state or local regulations, our licenses may be revoked and we may be forced to terminate the sale of alcoholic beverages at one or more of our restaurants. The federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. We are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and regulations relating to accommodating the needs of the disabled in connection with the construction of new facilities and with significant renovations of existing facilities. Failure to comply with these and other regulations could negatively impact our business and our reputation. 11 Table of Contents Our financial results may also fluctuate significantly as a result of our accounting for certain aspects of our partnership program. We incur non-cash charges for the excess of the imputed fair value of partner investments over the amount paid by our partners for their partnership interests. These amounts are recorded as the partnership interests are effective, which is typically when new stores open. The timing and volume of restaurant openings, the extent to which eligible persons elect to invest, the effective dates of their partnership interests and the determination of the related fair value of the investment will create fluctuations in our operating results. For the reasons noted above, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for a full fiscal year, and, from time to time in the future, the accounting impact of our partnership program may cause our results of operations to be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This discrepancy could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Future changes in financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. Changes in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or differing interpretations with respect to our current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We remain committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards. This investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Some of the statements in this Form 10-K and the documents we incorporate by reference constitute forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as may, will, should, expect, plan, intend, forecast, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements contained in this document involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and situations that may cause our or our industry’s actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these statements. Factors that might cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements may include the matters listed under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, including, but not limited to, failure of our existing or new restaurants to achieve predicted results, the adequacy of anticipated sources of cash to fund our future capital requirements and development of new restaurants. Because we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff comments None. 12 Table of Contents 