ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts constitute forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are intended to be covered by the safe harbors created by that Act. Reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied. Forward-looking statements generally contain the words “believe”, “expect,” “may,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “project,” “plan,” “assume,” “seek to” or other similar expressions, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which they are made. Statements concerning, without limitation, expected financial performance and results, plans and objectives, prospects, on-going business strategies and possible future action which the Company intends to pursue to achieve strategic objectives constitute forward-looking information. Implementation of these strategies and the achievement of such financial performance are each subject to numerous conditions, uncertainties and risk factors. The risk factors listed below are those deemed to be material by the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known may materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry The Company depends on the biopharmaceutical industry for most of its revenue. The Company’s revenues depend on the outsourcing trends, size of the drug-development pipeline and research and development expenditures of the biopharmaceutical industry. Economic factors and industry trends that affect companies in the biopharmaceutical industry affect its business. A slowdown in research and development spending or a reprioritization of the drug development pipelines or limited access to capital to fund projects in the biopharmaceutical industry could negatively affect the Company’s net service revenues and results of operations. Mergers and acquisitions in the biopharmaceutical industry and the related rationalization of the drug-development pipelines could result in delay or cancellation of certain existing projects. 6 Table of Contents The CRO industry is highly competitive. The CRO industry is comprised of a wide range of competitors including small, niche providers as well as large multi-national full-service global clinical research organizations. These companies compete based on a variety of factors, including reputation for quality, performance, price, scope of service offerings and geographic presence. Some of the Company’s competitors have greater financial resources and a wider range of service offerings over a greater geographic area. Additionally, the Company’s customers have in-house capabilities to perform services that are provided by CROs. These factors potentially could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to win business awards. Revenue and earnings growth rates in the future may not be as robust as in the past. Current economic conditions including pharmaceutical company mergers, drug development pipeline reprioritization, and cost containment efforts by customers including reduction of research and development spending, among other things, have, and may continue to impact the CRO industry and, in particular, the Company’s sales and revenue growth rates. There can be no assurance that growth rates will recover to the level experienced in the past. Change in government regulation or healthcare reform could adversely affect the Company. Government agencies regulate the drug development process utilized by the Company in its work with biopharmaceutical companies. Changes in regulations that simplify the drug approval process or increases in regulatory requirements that lessen the research and development efforts of the Company’s customers could negatively affect the Company. In addition, any failure on the Company’s part to comply with existing regulations or in the adoption of new regulations could impair the value of its services and result in the termination of or additional costs under its contracts with customers. Comprehensive healthcare reform could reduce the demand for services which could reduce revenues. Legislation creating downward pressure on the prices for drugs that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge or the removal of these drugs from reimbursement formularies could reduce the amount of revenue the Company could earn from projects outsourced to it. Healthcare reform outside the U.S. could also adversely impact the Company’s revenues and profitability. Risks Related to Our Business The Company’s contracts may be delayed, terminated or reduced in scope with little or no notice. Many of the Company’s contracts provide for services on a fixed-price basis and may be terminated or reduced in scope with little or no notice. Cancellations may occur for a variety of reasons, including the failure of the product to satisfy safety requirements, the Customer’s inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the drug, unexpected results of the product or the customer’s decision to terminate the development of a product. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a large contract or the delay of multiple contracts could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations; although its contracts entitle it to receive payments for work performed in the event of a cancellation. Cancellation or delay of a large contract or multiple contracts could leave the Company with under-utilized resources and thereby negatively affect its net service revenues and results of operations. The Company believes its aggregate backlog is not necessarily a meaningful indicator of future net service revenues and financial results. The fixed price nature of many of the Company’s contracts could result in financial losses. Because many of the Company’s contracts are structured as fixed price, it is at financial risk if it initially underbids the contract or overruns the initial cost estimates. Such under-bidding or significant cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 7 Table of Contents The Company’s backlog may not be indicative of future results. The Company includes in backlog anticipated revenues from projects currently in process plus written awards, signed contracts, letters of intent and other awards believed to be firm commitments. These contracts vary in size and duration and may be subject to changes in scope, delays or cancellations. If the Company is successful in securing future contracts that are larger and more global in nature, the rate at which backlog is converted into revenue may be slower than the Company’s historical experience. Additionally, as a result of biopharmaceutical companies starting to award trials earlier in the cycle than they have historically, we are seeing the time duration between award and revenue recognition elongate as study designs continue to be reviewed and revised. The portion of backlog that may be performed in non-U.S. subsidiaries is exposed to fluctuations in the applicable foreign currencies which could affect the amount of revenue ultimately recognized. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates caused backlog to decrease by approximately $6.6 million at December 31, 2010. The economic climate has caused the Company to rapidly adjust from a robust growth strategy to a cost containment strategy in a short period of time, which has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on it. The Company has had to adapt to a rapidly changing economic and industry environment. Historically, the Company had grown rapidly, both organically and through acquisitions. In 2009 and continuing through 2010, the Company experienced lower new business authorizations than in its recent past, combined with higher than historical levels of cancellations. This placed significant stress upon the organization to adjust from building toward expected future growth to taking rapid actions to preserve profitability. As a result, the Company embarked on reduction in force and cost containment initiatives which could have an unfavorable impact on the future operations should the environment quickly recover. Additionally, certain geographic regions could grow at faster rates than other geographic regions, resulting in the Company hiring associates in those regions (i.e. Latin America and Asia/Pacific) at a more accelerated pace than in other regions. If the Company is unable to attract suitable investigators and volunteers for clinical trials, the Company’s business may suffer. The clinical research studies the Company operates rely upon the accessibility and willing participation of physician investigators and volunteer subjects. Investigators supervise the administration of study drugs to patients during the course of a clinical trial. Volunteer subjects generally include people from the communities in which the studies are conducted. The Company’s clinical research business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract suitable investigators or clinical study volunteers on a consistent basis. If the Company is required to write off goodwill or other intangible assets acquired in its business combinations, its financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. The Company had goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets of approximately $248.0 million and $258.8 million as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, which constituted approximately 51% and 48%, respectively, of its total assets at these periods. The Company periodically (at least annually unless triggering events occur that cause an interim evaluation), evaluates goodwill and other acquired intangible assets for impairment. Any future determination requiring the write off of a portion of the Company’s goodwill or other acquired intangible assets could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Should current economic conditions continue, the annual or an interim evaluation (if required as indicated above) could result in an impairment of the Company’s goodwill. In connection with its annual evaluation of goodwill for the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company determined that a portion of the goodwill related to its Early Stage segment was impaired and as a result wrote off approximately $7.3 million of the goodwill related to this segment. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on goodwill and amortizable intangible assets. The Company’s indebtedness could adversely affect its business and financial condition. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had $142.5 million (in par value) of convertible debt outstanding and an additional $35 million of borrowing capacity under a revolving line of credit. The Company also maintains a 8 Table of Contents $5.0 million multicurrency facility that is renewable annually and used in connection with its European operations. For a description of the Company’s indebtedness and that of its subsidiaries, see Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company’s level of indebtedness will have several important effects on its future operations. For example, the Company will be required to use a portion of its cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest due on its outstanding indebtedness. In addition, the Company’s outstanding indebtedness and leverage could increase the impact of negative changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as competitive pressures. The level of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness may affect its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes. General economic conditions as well as conditions affecting the Company’s operations specifically, including, but not limited to, financial and business conditions, many of which are beyond its control, may affect its future performance. As a result, these and other factors may affect the Company’s ability to make principal and interest payments on its indebtedness. The Company’s business might not continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels, including levels required to service its indebtedness. Moreover, if the Company is required to repatriate foreign earnings to fund its debt service, it may not be able to accomplish this in a “tax efficient” manner and may, therefore, incur additional income taxes. If the Company cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service its indebtedness, it may, among other things: • Seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • Seek to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness; • Sell selected assets; • Reduce or delay planned capital expenditures These measures might not be sufficient to enable the Company to service its indebtedness. In addition, any financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms, if at all. Furthermore, the Company’s credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants which may affect, and in many respects significantly limit, management’s choices in responding to business, economic, regulatory and other competitive conditions. The Company’s access to funds under the Facility or its money market fund holdings is dependent on the solvency and liquidity of the participating lenders or fund sponsors. The Company draws on its money market fund holdings or uses its revolving credit facility to provide liquidity to fund its operating needs. The balances fluctuate depending on the Company’s needs and cash flows. If a party to the Facility or the sponsors of the money market funds becomes insolvent or unable to honor its commitments, the Company could have insufficient cash to meet its obligations and may be required to seek alternative forms of capital at rates and with terms and conditions not as favorable as those under its current Facility. The Company may be exposed to risk from its various counterparties. The global economy has shown signs of volatility and continues to show signs of fragility; its impact may be far reaching. As a result, the Company may be exposed to risks related to defaults from its suppliers and customers, as well as, from the counterparties to its purchased call options and sold warrants that are beyond the Company’s control. Key suppliers could fail to deliver agreed upon goods or services. Customers may not be able to obtain financing for their clinical trials with the Company, which may result in the delay or cancellation of these trials. Additionally, customers may not be able to pay or may pay receivables more slowly than in the past resulting in bad debt expenses or poor cash flows. The purchasers of the call options and sold warrants could become insolvent resulting in an inability to honor their commitments or in unanticipated dilution should the target conversion price terms be met. 9 Table of Contents The Company’s international operations are subject to numerous risks. The Company has international operations in many foreign countries, including, but not limited to, South Africa, India and countries in Eastern Europe, the Asia Pacific region and Latin America. These operations are subject to risks and uncertainties inherent in operating in these countries, including government regulations, potential highly inflationary economies, currency restrictions and other restraints, burdensome taxes, government takeovers of assets and political instability. These risks and uncertainties could negatively impact the Company’s ability to, among other things, perform large, global projects for its customers or repatriate cash. Furthermore, the Company’s ability to deal with these issues could be affected by applicable U.S. laws and the need to protect its assets in those locations. The Company’s financial results are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements are denominated in U.S. dollars. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 59% of the Company’s net service revenues were derived from operations outside the United States compared to 57% in the same period of 2009. The Company strives for contractual protection to limit the foreign currency fluctuation risk exposure in contracts with its customers where possible, but that protection is not always achievable or adequate to insulate the Company from significant fluctuations. Additionally, due to the uncertainties regarding the timing of and currencies involved, it is impracticable to implement hedging instruments to match the Company’s foreign currency inflows and outflows. As a result, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the Company’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows as well as its ability to finance large acquisitions outside the United States. The Company’s quarterly operating results may vary. The Company’s operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are influenced by a variety of factors, such as: • Exchange rate fluctuations; • Timing of contract amendments for changes in scope that could affect the value of a contract and potentially impact the amount of net service revenues from quarter to quarter; • Commencement, completion, execution or cancellation of large contracts; • Collections of accounts receivable; • Progress of ongoing contracts and retention of customers; • Timing of and charges associated with completed acquisitions or other events; and • Changes in the mix, both in terms of geography and type of services. The Company believes that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. Although fluctuations in quarterly operating results could negatively or positively affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. These fluctuations may not be indicative of future overall operating performance. The Company’s business depends on the continued effectiveness and availability of its information technology infrastructure, and failures of this infrastructure could limit its operations. To remain competitive in the Company’s industry, it must employ information technologies that capture, manage, and analyze the large streams of data generated during the clinical trials we manage in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. In addition, because the Company provides services on a global basis, it relies extensively on its technology to allow the concurrent conduct of studies and work sharing around the world. As with all information technology, the Company’s systems could become vulnerable to potential damage or interruptions from fires, blackouts, telecommunications failures and other unexpected events, as well as to break-ins, sabotage or intentional acts of vandalism. Given the extensive reliance of the Company’s business on this technology and the substantial investment in new technology infrastructure, any substantial disruption or resulting loss of data that is 10 Table of Contents not avoided or corrected by its backup measures could harm its business and operations. Although the Company carries property and business interruption insurance, the coverage may not be adequate to compensate for all losses that may occur. The Company’s business depends on the successful implementation and deployment of its enterprise wide reporting solution and failure could harm the Company’s ability to manage its business and obtain accurate financial reporting. The Company made a significant investment in an enterprise resource planning solution implementation of which began in 2010. When fully implemented, this major initiative is intended to integrate pricing, sales, project accounting, time reporting, trial management, human resources, billing and general ledger programs to provide management and financial reporting. The delay in implementation or failure of this project could result in, among other things, an inability to manage our business, bill and collect accounts receivable or accurately report our financial results. This new technology will also rely on third parties for processing and storing of data which exposes the Company to additional risks. The Company’s business could expose it to potential liability for personal injury claims that could affect its financial condition. The Company’s business involves clinical trial management which includes the testing of new drugs on human volunteers. This business exposes the Company to the risk of liability for personal injury or death to patients resulting from, among other things, possible unforeseen adverse side effects or improper administration of a drug or device. Many of these volunteers and patients are already seriously ill and are at risk of further illness or death. Any claim or liability could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and its reputation if, as a result, it were required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim and if: (i) such claim is outside the scope of indemnification agreements the Company has with customers and collaborative partners, (ii) an indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or (iii) its liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage. The Company might also not be able to purchase adequate insurance for these risks at reasonable rates in the future. The nature of the Company’s business exposes it to litigation and regulatory risk. The nature of the Company’s business exposes it to litigation risk, and it is a party to lawsuits in the ordinary course of its business. While the Company does not believe that the resolution of any currently pending lawsuits against it will, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations, it is possible that one or more lawsuits to which it is currently a party to or to which it subsequently becomes a party to, could adversely affect it in the future. In addition, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in actions that could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial performance. If the Company fails to hire, retain and integrate qualified personnel, it will be difficult for it to achieve its financial and operational goals. The Company’s success depends to a significant extent upon the skills, experience and efforts of its senior management team and its ability to hire qualified personnel in the geographic regions and therapeutic areas in which it operates. The loss of any of the Company’s executive officers or other key employees, without a properly executed transition plan, could have an adverse effect on it. In addition, there has been substantial competition among both CROs and biopharmaceutical companies for qualified personnel. Difficulty recruiting or retaining qualified personnel and/or unexpected recruiting costs could affect the Company’s ability to meet financial and operational goals. 11 Table of Contents New standards or changes in existing accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), SEC or other standard setting bodies may adversely affect the Company’s financial statements and could entail significant expenditures. The application of these standards often requires the use of estimates and assumptions that may materially differ from actual results. The Company’s consolidated financial statements are currently subject to the application of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, the Company is required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB. It is possible that future changes in standards may change the current accounting treatment and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. (See Note 1, Critical Accounting Policies, specifically New Accounting Pronouncements for known changes in standards.) The preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements in compliance with GAAP often requires management to make estimates and assumptions based on available information at that time. These estimates and assumptions may ultimately differ from actual results and the impact could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. Risks related to our Common Stock Market conditions have caused significant volatility in the Company’s stock price. The market price of the Company’s common stock has historically experienced and is expected to continue to experience some volatility because: • The Company’s number of shares outstanding is significantly less than that of its peers, causing relatively small adjustments to have a substantial impact on earnings per share and relatively small market activity to cause substantial volatility. • General conditions in the economy and financial markets and other developments affecting the Company or its competitors have caused the market value of the Company’s common stock to decline. This volatility and valuation decline has affected securities issued by many companies in many industries, in addition to the Company’s common stock, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. Future valuation declines may cause the Company’s total market capitalization to decrease to a level which could result in a potential impairment of the Company’s goodwill. The Company’s convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the trading price of its common stock. In connection with the issuance of the Company’s Convertible Notes (see Note 7), the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions with the participating Underwriter and JP Morgan Chase (collectively, the counterparties). The convertible note hedge transactions are comprised of purchased call options and sold warrants. The purchased call options are expected to reduce exposure to potential dilution upon the conversion of the Convertible Notes. The Company also entered into warrant transactions with such counterparties. The sold warrants have an exercise price that is approximately 70% higher than the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the date the Convertible Notes were priced. The warrants are expected to provide the Company with some protection against increases in our stock price over the conversion price per share. In connection with these transactions, the counterparties, or their affiliates: • May enter into various over-the-counter derivative transactions or purchase or sell the Company’s common stock in secondary market transactions; and • May enter into, or may unwind, various over-the-counter derivatives or purchase or sell the Company’s common stock in secondary market transactions, including during any conversion reference period with respect to a conversion of the Convertible Notes. 12 Table of Contents These activities may have the effect of increasing, or preventing a decline in, the market price of the Company’s common stock. In addition, any hedging transactions by the counterparties, or their affiliates, including during any conversion reference period, may have an adverse impact on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The counterparties, or their affiliates, are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Convertible Notes by purchasing and selling shares of the Company’s common stock or other instruments, including over-the-counter derivative instruments, that they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. In addition, the Company intends to exercise its purchased call options whenever the Convertible Notes are converted, although not required to do so. In order to unwind any hedge positions with respect to the potential exercise of the purchased call options, the counterparties or their affiliates would expect to sell shares of common stock in secondary market transactions or unwind various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to the Company’s common stock during the conversion reference period for any Convertible Notes that may be converted. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities in connection with the Convertible Notes on the market price of the Company’s common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock and, as a result, the number of shares and value of the common stock received upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. Anti-takeover provisions in the Company’s charter documents and under Ohio law may make an acquisition of the Company, which may be beneficial to its stockholders, more difficult, which could depress its stock price. Certain provisions of the Company’s Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations and of Ohio law make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of it without the consent of its Board of Directors (Board). These anti-takeover defenses may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of the Company, and, accordingly, could limit the price that investors may be willing to pay for its common stock, including transactions in which holders of common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the market price. In cases where Board approval is not obtained, these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for existing shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause the Company to take other corporate actions they desire. These provisions include: • The authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms, rights, privileges and restrictions of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without shareholder approval; • Limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of shareholders; and • Advance notice procedures required for shareholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders. In addition, the Company has adopted a shareholder rights plan that may have anti-takeover effects, which will make its acquisition by another company more difficult. The Company’s shareholder rights plan provides that, in the event any person or entity acquires 15% or more of its outstanding common stock, its shareholders will be entitled to purchase shares of common stock, or in certain instances, shares of the acquirer, at a discounted price. The rights are intended to discourage a significant share acquisition, merger or tender offer involving the Company’s common stock by increasing the cost of affecting any such transaction and, accordingly, could have an adverse impact on a takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider to be in the Company’s best interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 