Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Company’s Business There is a criminal investigation into pricing practices in the trade in which the Company operates and related class- action suits. As more fully described in Item 3. – Legal Proceedings, on April 17, 2008, the Company received a subpoena from the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) seeking documents and information relating to a criminal grand jury investigation of alleged anti-competitive conduct by Puerto Rico ocean carriers. To date, neither the Company nor any of its employees has been charged with any wrongdoing in this investigation and we will continue to cooperate with government officials. Following publicity about the DOJ investigation, beginning on April 22, 2008, shippers in the Puerto Rico trade lane, and in one case indirect consumer purchasers within Puerto Rico, have filed at least 41 purported class actions against domestic ocean carriers, including Horizon Lines, Sea Star Lines, Crowley and the Company. Additionally, on October 9, 2009, the Company received a Request for Information and Production of Documents from the Puerto Rico Office of Monopolistic Affairs. The request relates to an investigation into possible price fixing and unfair competition in the Puerto Rico domestic ocean shipping business. The Company is not able to predict the ultimate outcome or cost of the DOJ investigation, the civil class actions, or the Puerto Rico Office of Monopolistic Affairs investigation. However, should this result in an unfavorable outcome for the Company, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and future operations. We may be unable to refinance our 9.25% Senior Secured Notes. The Company’s 9.25% Senior Secured Notes mature on November 15, 2011. As of March 26, 2010, the aggregate principal outstanding on the 9.25% Senior Secured Notes is $82.5 million. We do not expect to generate sufficient funds from our operations to pay off the aggregate principal outstanding on the 9.25% Senior Secured Notes when due in November 2011. If we are unable to refinance these notes on acceptable terms, we might be forced (i) to dispose of property or equipment, which might result in losses, and/or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms. Either could reduce the cash flow available for operations and, therefore, have a negative effect on our results of operations. Compliance With Safety and Environmental Protection and Other Governmental Requirements May Adversely Affect Our Operations. The shipping industry in general, and our business and the operation of our vessels and terminals in particular, are affected by extensive and changing safety, environmental protection and other international, national, state and local governmental laws and regulations. For example, our vessels generally must be maintained “in class” and are subject to periodic inspections by the American Bureau of Shipping or similar classification societies, and must be periodically inspected by, or on behalf of, the U.S. Coast Guard. Changes in enforcement policies for existing requirements and additional laws and regulations adopted in the future could limit our ability to do business or further increase the cost of our doing business. We believe our vessels are maintained in good condition in compliance with present regulatory requirements, are operated in compliance in all material respects with applicable safety/environmental laws and regulations and are insured against the usual risks for such amounts as our management deems appropriate. Our vessels’ operating certificates and licenses are renewed periodically during the required annual surveys of the vessels. However, there can be no assurance that such certificates and licenses will be renewed. In the future, we may have to alter existing equipment, add new equipment to, or change operating procedures for, our vessels to comply with changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards to meet our customers’ changing needs. If any such costs are material, they could adversely affect our financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Volatility in fuel prices could adversely affect our profitability. While the Company has a series of fuel surcharges in place that seek to adjust revenues with changes in fuel prices, such mechanisms do not act with precision in terms of timing and amount. When fuel prices increase dramatically, rapidly or consistently, the surcharge mechanism may not immediately adjust revenues enough to offset the increase in cost to the Company. Additionally, in periods of consistent fuel price increases, the fuel surcharge mechanism may not fully capture the increase in costs. The fuel surcharge is also an area of competition among carriers in the trade and market forces may prohibit the Company from generating enough revenue from the fuel surcharges to offset any increase in costs, which may have a negative affect on our profitability. We have no control over economic factors that could adversely affect our business. We have no control over economic factors such as fuel prices, fuel tax, interest rate fluctuations, recessions or customers’ business cycles. Significant increases in fuel or other operating costs and interest rates, to the extent not offset by increases in freight rates or fuel surcharges, would adversely affect our operating results. The current economic uncertainty caused by the economic recession in the United States and other countries, could have a material adverse effect upon our operating results; especially if conditions do not improve. If the resale value of our revenue equipment were to decline, we could receive less upon the disposition of our equipment or find it necessary to retain our equipment longer, with a resulting increase in our operating expenses. The marine and trucking industries are cyclical with corresponding changes in revenue and profits. Changes in economic and trade growth as well as changes in the supply and demand of vessel and trucking capacity can impact both rates and resale values. The amount and timing of new vessel deliveries to competing carriers in the Puerto Rico market and rate reductions from increased capacity, excess capacity or slow market growth could result in rate instability that could have a material adverse effect upon us. Intense maritime competition has led to past financial losses. Due primarily to the overcapacity and intense competition in the Puerto Rico market during the late 1990’s and early 2000’s, the Company experienced significant financial losses and negative cash flow. Although we have had positive operating income since 2005, the Company cannot assure that it will continue to generate operating income and positive cash flow. The Company cannot assure that a new marine freight carrier will not commence operations in the Puerto Rico market or that an existing competitor will not increase capacity or lower prices in the Puerto Rico market. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources, operate more equipment, or carry a larger volume of freight than we do. Intense competition in our industry could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The trucking industry is highly competitive and fragmented and the Puerto Rico freight market is also highly competitive. We currently compete with other truckload carriers that provide domestic dry van service, private fleets operated by existing and potential customers, and marine carriers that provide ocean service between the continental U.S. and Puerto Rico. Competition for the freight we transport is based primarily on freight rates, and, to a lesser degree, on service and efficiency. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources, operate more equipment, or carry a larger volume of freight than we do. 12 Table of Contents The Company’s operations are dependent on a limited fleet and special loading structures. The Company’s current liner operations depend on four vessels and triple deck loading ramps at its port facilities in Jacksonville and San Juan, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The operation of any marine vessel involves the risk of catastrophic events due to various perils at sea. In the event of either a total loss of or major damage to its vessels or ramps, the Company cannot assure that the Company could locate suitable replacements, or if available, that such replacements could be obtained on suitable terms. The Company also could be adversely affected if unexpected maintenance or repairs are required for either of the custom configured ramp systems the Company uses. Although its vessels are insured for loss, the Company does not maintain business interruption insurance and the Company’s vessel insurance might not be high enough to build replacement vessels. Accordingly, the Company cannot assure that the loss of, damage to or significant required repair to any of its vessels or port facilities in the future would not have a material adverse effect on its cash flow. A substantial part of the Company’s revenue is produced in a single market, which makes it susceptible to changes that could adversely affect its results. The vast majority of its revenue is attributable to freight moving either to or from Puerto Rico. Its reliance on the Puerto Rico market makes it susceptible to a downturn in the local economy, local economic and competitive factors, changes in government regulations and political changes that the Company cannot predict. The Company’s operation is highly leveraged and a downturn in freight volume in the Puerto Rico trade lane would have a material adverse effect on its cash flow. Repeal or substantial amendment of the Jones Act could adversely affect its business. The Jones Act provides that all vessels operating between ports in the United States, including the noncontiguous areas of Puerto Rico, Alaska and Hawaii, must be built, owned, operated and crewed substantially by U.S. citizens. The Company cannot assure that the Jones Act will not be repealed or amended in the future. If the Jones Act was to be repealed or substantially amended and, as a consequence, competition was to increase in the Puerto Rico market, the Company’s business and cash flow could be adversely affected. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof, adverse tax audits and other tax matters related to the Company’s tonnage tax election or such tax may adversely affect future results. The Company has elected to be taxed according to the tonnage tax instead of the federal corporate income tax on income from its qualifying shipping activities since the 2007 federal tax year. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof, adverse tax audits, and other tax matters related to such tax election or such tax may adversely affect the Company’s future results. We are susceptible to severe weather and natural disasters. Our operations are vulnerable to disruption as a result of weather and natural disasters such as bad weather at sea as well as hurricanes and earthquakes. Such events will interfere with our ability to provide the on-time scheduled service our customers demand resulting in increased expenses and potential loss of business associated with such events. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters can result in interference with our terminal operations, and may cause significant damage to our vessels and ramps, loss or damage to containers, cargo and other equipment and loss of life or physical injury to our employees. Terminals on the east coast of the continental U.S. and in the Caribbean are particularly susceptible to hurricanes. Any damage caused by natural disasters may not be fully covered by insurance. 13 Table of Contents Restrictions on foreign ownership of our vessels could prevent us from conducting operations in the United States domestic trade. In order to maintain the eligibility of the Company to own and operate vessels in compliance with the Jones Act, 75% of the outstanding capital stock and voting power of the Company is required to be held by U.S. citizens. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation contains provisions limiting non-citizenship ownership of its capital stock and requiring non-citizens to divest the shares of capital stock that they own in excess of these limits. However, the Company could lose its ability to conduct operations in the U.S. domestic trade if such provisions prove unsuccessful in maintaining the required level of citizen ownership, which would require us to shut down all but a very small portion of our current business. Loss of our key management personnel could adversely affect our business. Our future success will depend, in significant part, upon the services of our Chief Executive Officer, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, our Chief Financial Officer and our other officers. The loss of the services of any of these executive officers could adversely affect our future operating results because of such officers’ experience and knowledge of our business and customer relationships. We do not maintain key person insurance on any of our executive officers. We are subject to, and may in the future be subject to legal disputes that could have a material adverse effect on us. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for legal disputes from time to time relating to labor and employment matters, personal injury and property damage, environmental matters and other matters, as discussed in the other risk factors disclosed in this Form 10-K. In addition, as a common carrier, our tariffs, rates, rules and practices in dealing with our customers are governed by extensive and complex foreign, federal, state and local regulations which are the subject of administrative and/or judicial proceedings from time to time. These proceedings, individually or collectively, could harm our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business. Additionally, these proceedings, individually or collectively, could involve significant expenditures by us or result in significant changes to our tariffs, rates, rules and practices in dealing with our customers that could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and profitability. Covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. Our debt agreements contain customary covenants and financial tests, including compliance with certain financial ratios under certain circumstances. These covenants could limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. Moreover, if we breach any of the covenants and did not cure the breach within the applicable cure period, we could be forced to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. As a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents 