Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Company’s Business The Company has experienced losses. Due primarily to the overcapacity and intense competition in the Puerto Rico lane during the late 1990‘s and early 2000‘s, the Company experienced significant financial losses and associated negative cash-flow during that time. Despite a reduction in market overcapacity and profitable operations for the Company in 2004, 2005 and the second half of 2006, the Company cannot assure you that it will continue to be profitable and continue to generate positive cash flow. For example, the Company cannot assure you that a new marine freight carrier will not commence operations in the Puerto Rico lane. Most of its competitors have substantially greater financial resources, operate more equipment, or carry a larger volume of freight than the Company does. The Company’s operations are dependent on a limited fleet and special loading structures. The Company’s current operations depend on four vessels and triple deck loading ramps at its port facilities in Jacksonville and San Juan, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The operation of any marine vessel involves the risk of catastrophic events due to various perils of sea. In addition, port facilities in Jacksonville and San Juan are vulnerable to the risk of hurricanes. In the event of either a total loss of or major damage to its vessels or ramps, the Company cannot assure you that the Company could locate suitable replacements, or if available, that such replacements could be obtained on suitable terms. The Company also could be adversely affected if unexpected maintenance or repairs are required for either of the custom configured ramp systems the Company uses. Although its vessels are insured for loss, the Company does not maintain business interruption insurance. Accordingly, the Company cannot assure you that the loss of, damage to or significant required repair to any of its vessels or port facilities in the future would not have a material adverse effect on its cash flow. The Company currently relies on a single market, which makes us susceptible to changes that could adversely affect its results. Most of its revenue is attributable to freight moving either to or from Puerto Rico. Its reliance on the Puerto Rico market makes us susceptible to a downturn in the local economy, local economic and competitive factors, changes in government regulations and political changes that the Company cannot predict. Repeal or substantial amendment of the Jones Act could adversely affect its business. The Jones Act provides that all vessels operating between ports in the United States, including the noncontiguous areas of Puerto Rico, Alaska and Hawaii, must be built, owned, operated and crewed substantially by U.S. citizens. The Jones Act continues to be in effect and supported by the U.S. Congress and the current administration. However, the Company can not assure you that the Jones Act will not be repealed or amended in the future. If the Jones Act were to be repealed or substantially amended and, as a consequence, competition were to increase in the Puerto Rico market, its business and cash flow could be adversely affected. In addition, its advantage as a U.S.-citizen operator of Jones Act vessels could be somewhat eroded over time as there continue to be periodic efforts and attempts by foreign interests to circumvent certain aspects of the Jones Act. Page 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 