ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts constitute forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are intended to be covered by the safe harbors created by that Act. Reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied. Forward-looking statements generally contain the words “believe”, “expect,” “may,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “project,” “plan,” “assume,” “seek to” or other similar expressions, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which they are made. Statements concerning expected financial performance, on-going business strategies and possible future action which the Company intends to pursue to achieve strategic objectives constitute forward-looking information. Implementation of these strategies and the achievement of such financial performance are each subject to numerous conditions, uncertainties and risk factors. Factors that could cause actual performance to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, without limitation, the following: The Company depends on the biopharmaceutical industry for most of its revenue. The Company’s revenues depend on the outsourcing trends, size of the drug-development pipeline and research and development expenditures of the biopharmaceutical industry. Economic factors and industry trends that affect companies in those industries affect its business. A slowdown in research and development spending in the biopharmaceutical industry could negatively affect its net service revenues and results of operations. Mergers and acquisitions in the biopharmaceutical industry and the related rationalization of the drug-development pipelines could result in delay or cancellation of certain projects. The Company’s contracts may be delayed, terminated or reduced in scope with little or no notice. Many of the Company’s contracts provide for services on a fixed-price basis and may be terminated or reduced in scope with little or no notice. Cancellations may occur for a variety of reasons, including the failure of the product to satisfy safety requirements, the Customer’s inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the drug, unexpected results of the product or the client’s decision to terminate the development of a product. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a large contract or the delay of multiple contracts could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, although its contracts entitle it to receive payments for work performed in the event of a cancellation. Cancellation or delay of a large contract or multiple contracts could leave the Company with under-utilized resources and thereby negatively affect its net service revenues and results of operations. The Company believes its aggregate backlog and is not necessarily a meaningful indicator of future net service revenues and financial results. The fixed price nature of many of the Company’s contracts could result in financial losses. Because many of the Company’s contracts are structured as fixed price, it is at financial risk if it initially underbids the contract or overruns the initial cost estimates. Such under-bidding or significant cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If the Company fails to hire, retain and integrate qualified personnel, it will be difficult for it to achieve its goals. The Company’s success depends to a significant extent upon the skills, experience and efforts of its senior management team and its ability to hire qualified personnel in the regions in which it operates. The loss of any of the Company’s executive officers or other key 5 Table of Contents employees, without a properly executed transition plan, could have an adverse effect on it. In addition, there is substantial competition among both CROs and biopharmaceutical companies for qualified personnel. Difficulty recruiting or retaining qualified personnel and/or unexpected recruiting costs will affect the Company’s ability to meet financial and operational goals. If the Company is required to write off goodwill or other intangible assets acquired in its business combinations, its financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company incurred a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $8.2 million relating to a customer relationship intangible asset acquired in 2002 (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company had goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets of approximately $250 million and $254 million (after deducting the impairment charge) as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively, which constituted approximately 50% and 56%, respectively, of its total assets at these periods. The Company periodically evaluates goodwill and other acquired intangible assets for impairment. Any future determination requiring the write off of a significant portion of the Company’s goodwill or other acquired intangible assets could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The CRO industry is highly competitive. The CRO industry is comprised of a wide range of competitors, including small, niche providers as well as full-service global clinical research organizations. These companies compete based on a variety of factors, including reputation for quality performance, price, scope of service offerings and geographic presence. Some of the Company’s competitors have greater financial resources and a wider range of service offerings over a greater geographic area. Additionally, the Company’s customers have in-house capabilities to perform services that are provided by CROs. These factors potentially could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to win business awards. The Company has grown rapidly and its growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on it. The Company has grown rapidly. Some of this growth has come as a result of acquisitions, and the Company continues to evaluate new acquisition opportunities. Businesses that grow rapidly often have difficulty managing their growth. The Company’s rapid growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on its management, its business and on its financial, accounting, information and other systems. The Company needs to continue recruiting and employing experienced executives and key employees capable of providing the necessary support. In addition, the Company will need to continue to improve its financial, accounting, information and other systems in order to effectively manage the Company’s growth. The Company’s ability to grow successfully through acquisitions could be affected by expenses incurred in integrating an acquired company, losses of key employees from an acquired company and unforeseen risks in acquiring companies in certain geographies. The Company cannot assure you that its management will be able to manage the Company’s growth and integrate acquired businesses effectively or successfully, or that its financial, accounting, information or other systems will be able to successfully accommodate the Company’s external and internal growth. A failure to meet these challenges could materially impair our business. Additionally, depending upon the nature of the consideration in an acquisition, an acquisition could result in dilution to existing shareholders. The Company’s backlog is composed of contracts varying in terms of amounts, global nature and type. To the extent this mix of contracts continues to shift toward larger (in excess of $10 million) contracts with a more global component, this may cause the rate at which this backlog converts into revenue to lengthen when compared with historical trends. As the Company increasingly competes for and enters into large contracts that are more global in nature, the Company expects the rate at which this backlog converts into revenue, referred to as the “conversion rate”, to increase (or lengthen). An increase in this conversion rate means that the rate of revenue recognized on these large contract awards may be slower than what the Company has experienced in the past, which could impact the Company’s net service revenues and results of operations on a quarterly and annual basis. The revenue recognition on larger, more global in nature projects could be slower than on smaller, less global in nature projects for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to an extended period of negotiation between the time the project is awarded to the Company and the actual signature of the contract as well as an increased timeframe for obtaining the regulatory approvals necessary. The Company’s indebtedness could adversely affect its business and financial condition. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had $200.0 million in convertible debt outstanding and an additional $53.5 million of borrowing capacity under a revolving line of credit as well as approximately $0.5 million of obligations outstanding under capital leases. The Company maintains a $5.0 million multicurrency facility that is renewable annually and used in connection with its European operations. For a description of the Company’s indebtedness and that of its subsidiaries, see Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company’s level of indebtedness will have several important effects on its future operations. For example, the Company will be required to use a portion of its cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest due on its outstanding indebtedness. In addition, the Company’s outstanding indebtedness and leverage could increase the impact of negative changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as competitive pressures. Finally, the level of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness may affect its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes. 6 Table of Contents General economic conditions as well as conditions affecting the Company’s operations specifically, including, but not limited to, financial and business conditions, many of which are beyond its control, may affect its future performance. As a result, these and other factors may affect the Company’s ability to make principal and interest payments on its indebtedness. The Company’s business might not continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels. Moreover, if the Company is required to repatriate foreign earnings in order to pay its debt service, it may incur additional income taxes. If the Company cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service its indebtedness, it may, among other things: • Seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • Seek to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness; • Sell selected assets; • Reduce or delay planned capital expenditures These measures might not be sufficient to enable the Company to service its indebtedness. In addition, any financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms, if at all. Furthermore, the Company’s credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants which will affect, and in many respects significantly limit, management’s choices in responding to business, economic, regulatory and other competitive conditions. The current accounting treatment applicable to the Company’s Convertible Notes may be rescinded. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) recently proposed FASB Staff Position (FSP) APB 14-a, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (FSP 14-a). The proposed FSP specifies that issuers of convertible debt instruments should separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that will reflect the entity’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate on the instrument’s issuance date when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. The Company has issued convertible notes that are within the scope of FSP APB 14-a; therefore, the Company would be required to record the debt portions of our convertible notes at their fair value on the date of issuance and amortize the resulting discount into interest expense over the life of the debt. However, there would be no effect on cash interest payments. The FASB is scheduled to re-deliberate the guidance in the current proposed, FSP APB 14-a in 2008 and it remains unclear as to the final form and effective date of this proposal. The Company will continue to monitor the status of this staff position and will evaluate the impact on its consolidated financial statements when more definitive information becomes available. If adopted in its current form, the proposed change would result in a significant increase in reported interest expense with respect to the Convertible Notes (defined in Recent Developments and CRO Marketplace in Management’s Discussion and Analysis). The Company’s convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the trading price of its common stock. In connection with the issuance of the Company’s Convertible Notes (see Note 7, Debt), the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions with the participating Underwriter and JP Morgan Chase (collectively, the counterparties). The convertible note hedge transactions are comprised of purchased call options and sold warrants. The purchased call options are expected to reduce our exposure to potential dilution upon the conversion of the Convertible Notes. The Company also entered into warrant transactions with such counterparties. The sold warrants have an exercise price that is approximately 70% higher than the closing price of our common stock on the date the Convertible Notes were priced. The warrants are expected to provide us with some protection against increases in our stock price over the conversion price per share. In connection with these transactions, the counterparties, or their affiliates: • may enter into various over-the-counter derivative transactions or purchase or sell the Company’s common stock in secondary market transactions; and • may enter into, or may unwind, various over-the-counter derivatives or purchase or sell the Company’s common stock in secondary market transactions, including during any conversion reference period with respect to a conversion the Convertible Notes. These activities may have the effect of increasing, or preventing a decline in, the market price of the Company’s common stock. In addition, any hedging transactions by the counterparties, or their affiliates, including during any conversion reference period, may have an adverse impact on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The counterparties, or their affiliates, are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Convertible Notes by purchasing and selling shares of the Company’s common stock or other instruments, including over-the-counter derivative instruments, that they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. In addition, the Company intends to exercise its purchased call options whenever the Convertible Notes are converted, although not required to do so. In order to unwind any hedge positions with respect to our exercise of the purchased call options, the counterparties or their affiliates would expect to sell shares of common stock in secondary market transactions or unwind various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to the Company’s common stock during the conversion reference period for any Convertible Notes that may be converted. 7 Table of Contents The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities in connection with the Convertible Notes on the market price of the Company’s common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock and, as a result, the number of shares and value of the common stock received upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. Change in government regulation could adversely affect the Company. Government agencies regulate the drug development process utilized by the Company in its work with biopharmaceutical companies. Changes in regulations that simplify the drug approval process or increases in regulatory requirements that lessen the research and development efforts of the Company’s customers could negatively affect it. In addition, any failure on the Company’s part to comply with existing regulations or in the adoption of new regulations could impair the value of its services and result in the termination of or additional costs under its contracts with customers. The Company’s international operations are subject to numerous risks. The Company has international operations in many foreign countries, including South Africa, India and countries in Eastern Europe and Latin America. These operations are subject to risks and uncertainties inherent in operating in these countries, including government regulations, currency restrictions and other restraints, burdensome taxes and political instability. These risks and uncertainties could impact negatively the Company’s ability to perform large, global projects for its customers. Furthermore, the Company’s ability to deal with these issues could be affected by applicable U.S. laws and the need to protect its assets in those locations. The Company’s quarterly operating results may vary. The Company’s operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are influenced by a variety of factors, such as: • Exchange rate fluctuations; • Timing of contract amendments for changes in scope that could affect the value of a contract and potentially impact the amount of net service revenues from quarter to quarter. • Commencement, completion or cancellation of large contracts; • Progress of ongoing contracts; • Timing of and charges associated with completed acquisitions or other events; and • Changes in the mix of our services. The Company believes that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. Although fluctuations in quarterly operating results could negatively or positively affect the market price of the Company’s common stock, these fluctuations may not be related to future overall operating performance. The Company’s financial results are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 50% of the Company’s net service revenues were derived from operations outside the United States compared to 45% in the same period of 2006. The Company’s consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the Company’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows as well as its ability to finance large acquisitions outside the United States. The Company’s business could expose it to potential liability for personal injury claims that could affect its financial condition. The Company’s business involves clinical trial management which includes the testing of new drugs on human volunteers. This business exposes the Company to the risk of liability for personal injury or death to patients resulting from, among other things, possible unforeseen adverse side effects or improper administration of a drug or device. Many of these volunteers and patients are already seriously ill and are at risk of further illness or death. Any claim or liability could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and its reputation if, as a result, it were required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim and if: (i) such claim is outside the scope of indemnification agreements the Company has with clients and collaborative partners, (ii) an indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or (iii) its liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage. The Company might also not be able to purchase adequate insurance for these risks at reasonable rates in the future. The Company’s operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. The Company depends on its clients, investigators, collaboration partners and other facilities for the continued operation of its business. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, pandemic flu, hurricanes and ice storms, could disrupt the Company’s operations or those of its clients, investigators and collaboration partners, which could also affect the Company. Even though the Company carries business interruption insurance policies and typically has provisions in its contracts that protect it in certain events, the Company might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under its insurance policies or for which the policies do not provide coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting the 8 Table of Contents Company or its clients, investigators or collaboration partners could have a significant negative impact on its operations and financial performance. The Company’s business depends on the continued effectiveness and availability of its information technology infrastructure, and failures of this infrastructure could harm its operations. To remain competitive in the Company’s industry, it must employ information technologies that capture, manage, and analyze the large streams of data generated during the clinical trials we manage in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. In addition, because the Company provides services on a global basis, it relies extensively on its technology to allow the concurrent conduct of studies and work sharing around the world. As with all information technology, the Company’s system could become vulnerable to potential damage or interruptions from fires, blackouts, telecommunications failures and other unexpected events, as well as to break-ins, sabotage or intentional acts of vandalism. Given the extensive reliance of the Company’s business on this technology, any substantial disruption or resulting loss of data that is not avoided or corrected by its backup measures could harm its business and operations. The nature of the Company’s business exposes it to litigation and regulatory risk. The nature of the Company’s business exposes it to litigation risk, and it is a party to lawsuits in the ordinary course of its business. While the Company does not believe that the resolution of any currently pending lawsuits against it will, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations, it is possible that one or more lawsuits to which it’s currently a party to or to which it subsequently becomes a party to, could adversely affect it in the future. In addition, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in actions that could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial performance. Anti-takeover provisions in the Company’s charter documents and under Ohio law may make an acquisition of it, which may be beneficial to its stockholders, more difficult, which could depress its stock price. Certain provisions of the Company’s Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations and of Ohio law make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of it without the consent of its Board of Directors (Board). These anti-takeover defenses may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of the Company, and, accordingly, could limit the price that investors may be willing to pay for its common stock, including transactions in which holders of common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the market price. In cases where Board approval is not obtained, these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for existing shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause the Company to take other corporate actions they desire. These provisions include: • the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms, rights, privileges and restrictions of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without shareholder approval; • limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of shareholders; and • advance notice procedures required for shareholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders. In addition, the Company has adopted a shareholder rights plan that may have anti-takeover effects which will make an acquisition of it by another company more difficult. The Company’s shareholder rights plan provides that, in the event any person or entity acquires 15% or more of its outstanding common stock, its shareholders will be entitled to purchase shares of common stock, or in certain instances, shares of the acquirer, at a discounted price. The rights are intended to discourage a significant share acquisition, merger or tender offer involving the Company’s common stock by increasing the cost of effecting any such transaction and, accordingly, could have an adverse impact on a takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider to be in the Company’s best interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 