RISK FACTORS Any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on the business activities, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of ING. The market price of ING shares could decline due to any of these risks, and investors could lose all or part of their investments. Additional risks of which the Company is not presently aware could also affect the business operations of ING and have a material adverse effect on ING’s business activities, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, the business of a multinational, broad-based financial services firm such as ING is inherently exposed to risks that only become apparent with the benefit of hindsight. The sequence in which the risk factors are presented below is not indicative of their likelihood of occurrence or the potential magnitude of their financial consequences. Risks Related to Financial Conditions, Market Environment and General Economic Trends. Because we are a financial services company conducting business on a global basis, our revenues and earnings are affected by the volatility and strength of the economic, business and capital markets environments specific to the geographic regions in which we conduct business. The ongoing turbulence and volatility of such factors have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the profitability of our insurance, banking and asset management business. Factors such as interest rates, securities prices, credit spreads, liquidity spreads, exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, real estate and private equity valuations, government spending, inflation, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, political events and trends, and terrorism all impact the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of business we conduct in a specific geographic region. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, higher corporate and private debt defaults, lower business investments, and lower consumer spending, the demand for banking and insurance products is usually adversely affected and ING’s reserves and provisions typically would increase, resulting in overall lower earnings. Securities prices, real estate values and private equity valuations may also be adversely impacted, and any such losses would be realized through profit and loss and shareholders’ equity. Some insurance products contain minimum return or accumulation guarantees. If returns do not meet or exceed the guarantee levels we may need to set up additional reserves to fund these future guaranteed benefits. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Similarly, a downturn in the equity markets causes a reduction in commission income we earn from managing portfolios for third parties, income generated from our own proprietary portfolios, asset-based fee income on certain insurance products, and our capital base. We also offer a number of insurance and financial products that expose us to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates, securities prices, corporate and private default rates, the value of real estate assets, exchange rates and credit spreads. See also “— Interest rate volatility may adversely affect our profitability”, “—Turbulence and volatility in the financial markets have adversely affected us, and may continue to do so”, and “—Current market conditions have increased the risk of loans being impaired. We are exposed to declining property values on the collateral supporting residential and commercial real estate lending” below. In case one or more of the factors mentioned above adversely affects the profitability of our business this might also result, among others, in the following: - the unlocking of deferred acquisition costs impacting earnings; and/or - reserve inadequacies which could ultimately be realized through profit and loss and shareholders’ equity; and/or - the write down of tax assets impacting net results; and/or - impairment expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, impacting net results ; and/or - movements in Risk Weighted Assets for the determination of required capital. Shareholders’ equity and our net result may significantly be impacted by turmoil and volatility in the worldwide financial markets. Negative developments in financial markets and/or economies may have a material adverse impact on shareholders’ equity and net result in future periods, including as a result of the potential consequences listed above. The recalibration we have conducted of our economic capital models to reflect difficult market conditions experienced over recent years may have a material impact on our economic capital for credit risk. See “Risks Related to the Group — Turbulence and volatility in the financial markets have adversely affected us, and may continue to do so”. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may impact our ability to access liquidity and capital, as well as the cost of credit and capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than two years. In the second half of 2008, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, market developments have resulted in restrictions on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. 9 Table of Contents We need liquidity in our day-to-day business activities to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock; maintain our securities lending activities; and replace certain maturing liabilities. The principal sources of our liquidity are deposit funds, insurance premiums, annuity considerations, cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium-and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and stockholders’ equity. In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, there is a risk that external funding sources might not be available, or available at unfavorable terms. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets, such as that experienced over the past few years and in the second half of 2008 in particular, may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may in the future limit our ability to raise additional capital to support business growth, or to counter-balance the consequences of losses or increased regulatory capital requirements. This could force us to (1) delay raising capital, (2) reduce, cancel or postpone payment of dividends on our shares, (3) reduce, cancel or postpone interest payments on other securities, (4) issue capital of different types or under different terms than we would otherwise, or (5) incur a higher cost of capital than in a more stable market environment. This would have the potential to decrease both our profitability and our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and regulatory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. In the course of 2008 and 2009, governments around the world, including the Dutch government, implemented unprecedented measures to provide assistance to financial institutions, in certain cases requiring (indirect) influence on or changes to governance and remuneration practices. In certain cases governments nationalized companies or parts thereof. The measures adopted in the Netherlands include both liquidity provision and capital reinforcement, and a Dutch Credit Guarantee Scheme. The liquidity and capital reinforcement measures expired on October 10, 2009, and the Credit Guarantee Scheme of the Netherlands expired on December 31, 2010. Our participation in these measures has resulted in certain material restrictions on us, including those agreed to with the European Commission (“EC”) as part of our Restructuring Plan. See “Risks Related to the Restructuring Plan — Our agreements with the Dutch State impose certain restrictions regarding the issuance or repurchase of our shares and the compensation of certain senior management positions”, “Risks Related to the Restructuring Plan — The implementation of the Restructuring Plan and the divestments anticipated in connection with that plan will significantly alter the size and structure of the Group and involve significant costs and uncertainties that could materially impact the Group”. The Restructuring Plan as well as any potential future transactions with the Dutch State or any other government, if any, or actions by such government regarding ING could adversely impact the position or rights of shareholders, bondholders, customers or creditors and our results, operations, solvency, liquidity and governance. We are subject to the jurisdiction of a variety of banking and insurance regulatory bodies, some of which have proposed regulatory changes that, if implemented, would hinder our ability to manage our liquidity in a centralized manner. Furthermore, regulatory liquidity requirements in certain jurisdictions in which we operate are generally becoming more stringent, including those forming part of the “Basel III” requirements discussed further below under “—We operate in highly regulated industries. There could be an adverse change or increase in the financial services laws and/or regulations governing our business”, undermining our efforts to maintain this centralized management of our liquidity. These developments may cause trapped pools of liquidity, resulting in inefficiencies in the cost of managing our liquidity, and hinder our efforts to integrate our balance sheet, which is an essential element of our Restructuring Plan. 10 Table of Contents The default of a major market participant could disrupt the markets. Within the financial services industry the default of any one institution could lead to defaults by other institutions. The failure of a sufficiently large and influential institution could disrupt securities markets or clearance and settlement systems in our markets. This could cause market declines or volatility. Such a failure could lead to a chain of defaults that could adversely affect us and our contract counterparties. Concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, because the commercial and financial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely related as a result of their credit, trading, clearing or other relationships. Even the perceived lack of creditworthiness of, or questions about, a counterparty may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. This risk is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges with whom we interact on a daily basis. Systemic risk could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise new funding and on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or prospects. In addition, such a failure could impact future product sales as a potential result of reduced confidence in the financial services industry. Management believes that despite increased attention recently, systemic risk to the markets in which we operate continues to exist, and dislocations caused by the interdependency of financial market participants continues to be a potential source of material adverse changes to our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because our life and non-life insurance and reinsurance businesses are subject to losses from unforeseeable and/or catastrophic events, which are inherently unpredictable, our actual claims amount may exceed our established reserves or we may experience an abrupt interruption of activities, each of which could result in lower net results and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In our life and non-life insurance and reinsurance businesses, we are subject to losses from natural and man-made catastrophic events. Such events include, without limitation, weather and other natural catastrophes such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and epidemics that may be more severe or difficult to predict as a result of increasingly variable climate conditions, as well as events such as terrorist attacks and political and social unrest. The frequency and severity of such events, and the losses associated with them, are inherently unpredictable and cannot always be adequately reserved for. Furthermore, we are subject to actuarial and underwriting risks such as, for instance, mortality, longevity, morbidity, and adverse claims development which result from the pricing and acceptance of insurance contracts. In accordance with industry practices, modelling of natural catastrophes is performed and risk mitigation measures are taken. In case claims occur, reserves are established based on estimates using actuarial projection techniques. The process of estimating is based on information available at the time the reserves are originally established and includes updates when more information becomes available. Although we continually review the adequacy of the established claim reserves, there can be no assurances that our actual claims experience will not exceed our estimated claim reserves. If actual claim amounts exceed the estimated claim reserves, our earnings may be reduced and our net results may be adversely affected. In addition, and as discussed further below under “Risks Related to the Group’s Business, Operations, and Regulatory Environment—Operational risks are inherent in our business”, because unforeseeable and/or catastrophic events can lead to an abrupt interruption of activities, our banking and insurance operations may be subject to losses resulting from such disruptions. Losses can relate to property, financial assets, trading positions, insurance and pension benefits to employees and also to key personnel. If our business continuity plans are not able to be put into action or do not take such events into account, losses may further increase. We operate in highly regulated industries. There could be an adverse change or increase in the financial services laws and/or regulations governing our business. We are subject to detailed banking, insurance, asset management and other financial services laws and government regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Regulatory agencies have broad administrative power over many aspects of the financial services business, which may include liquidity, capital adequacy and permitted investments, ethical issues, money laundering, privacy, record keeping, and marketing and sales practices. Banking, insurance and other financial services laws, regulations and policies currently governing us and our subsidiaries may also change at any time and in ways which have an adverse effect on our business, and it is difficult to predict the timing or form of any future regulatory or enforcement initiatives in respect thereof. Also, bank regulators and other supervisory authorities in the EU, the US and 11 Table of Contents elsewhere continue to scrutinize payment processing and other transactions under regulations governing such matters as money-laundering, prohibited transactions with countries subject to sanctions, and bribery or other anti-corruption measures. Regulation is becoming increasingly more extensive and complex and regulators are focusing increased scrutiny on the industries in which we operate, often requiring additional Company resources. These regulations can serve to limit our activities, including through our net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements, and restrictions on businesses in which we can operate or invest. If we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, appropriately any of these matters, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to additional legal risk, which could, in turn, increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties. In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Most of the principal markets where we conduct our business have adopted, or are currently considering, major legislative and/or regulatory initiatives in response to the financial crisis. In particular, governmental and regulatory authorities in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States and elsewhere are implementing measures to increase regulatory control in their respective financial markets and financial services sectors, including in the areas of prudential rules, capital requirements, executive compensation, crisis and contingency management, bank levies and financial reporting, among others. For example, the EC has agreed upon a full scale revision of the solvency framework and prudential regime applicable to insurance and reinsurance companies known as “Solvency II”, which was adopted on November 25, 2009. Each member state of the EEA, including the Netherlands, is required to implement Solvency II by January 1, 2013. Significant efforts towards establishing a more cohesive and streamlined European supervisory framework, including establishing a European Systemic Risk Board and a European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, may also affect the Group’s operations. In addition, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has announced higher global minimum capital standards for banks, introduced a new global liquidity standard and called for a new leverage ratio. The Committee’s package of reforms, collectively referred to as the “Basel III” rules, will, among other requirements, increase amount of common equity required to be held by subject banking institutions, prescribe the amount of liquid assets a subject banking institution must hold at a given moment, and limit leverage . Banks will be required to hold a “capital conservation buffer” to withstand future periods of stress such that the total Tier 1 common equity ratio, when fully phased in on January 1, 2019, will rise to 7%. Further, Basel III calls for stricter definitions of capital that will have the effect of disqualifying many hybrid securities, potentially including those issued by the Group, from inclusion in regulatory capital, as well as the higher capital requirements for trading, derivative and securitization activities to be introduced at the end of 2011 as part of a number of reforms to the Basel II framework. In addition, the Basel Committee and Financial Stability Board (FSB) are currently considering measures that may have the effect of requiring higher loss absorbency capacity, liquidity surcharges, exposure limits and special resolution regimes for “systemically important financial institutions” (SIFIs) and so-called “Global” SIFIs (G-SIFI), in addition to the Basel III requirements otherwise applicable to most financial institutions. While the full impact of the new Basel III rules, and any additional requirements for SIFIs or G-SIFIs if and as applicable to the Group, will depend on how they are implemented by national regulators, including the extent to which regulators and supervisors can set more stringent limits and additional capital requirements or surcharges, as well as on the economic and financial environment at the time of implementation and beyond, we expect these rules can have a material impact on ING’s operations and financial condition and may require the Group to seek additional capital. Further, the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) is considering changes to several IFRS standards, which changes could also have a material impact on our reported results and financial condition. Furthermore, in the United States, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank” or the “Dodd-Frank Act”) has imposed comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the United States and has implications for non-US financial institutions with a US presence, such as ING. Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, a process anticipated to occur over the next few years. We cannot predict with any certainty the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted or how Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect the financial markets generally, impact the Group’s business, credit or financial strength ratings, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition or advise or require the Group to raise additional capital. Key risks associated with the Dodd-Frank Act that may have an impact on the Group include: • The newly created risk regulator — the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “FSOC”) — may designate the Group as a company whose material financial distress, or whose nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness or mix of activities, could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States. In such an instance, the Group would become subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. If the Group becomes subject to the examination, enforcement and supervisory authority of the Federal Reserve, the Federal Reserve would have authority to impose capital 12 Table of Contents requirements on the Group and its subsidiaries. The Group cannot predict what capital regulations the Federal Reserve will promulgate under these authorizations, either generally or as applicable to organizations with the Group’s operations, nor can management predict how the Federal Reserve will exercise potential general supervisory authority over the Group as to its business practices or those of its subsidiaries. If designated as systemically important by the FSOC, the Group would become subject to unspecified stricter prudential standards, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and credit exposure, as well as overall risk management requirements, management interlock prohibitions and a requirement to maintain a plan for rapid and orderly dissolution in the event of severe financial distress. The Group may become subject to stress tests to be promulgated by the Federal Reserve in consultation with the newly created Federal Insurance Office (discussed below) to determine whether, on a consolidated basis, the Group has the capital necessary to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions. We cannot predict how the stress tests will be designed or conducted or whether the results thereof will cause the Group to alter its business practices or affect the perceptions of regulators, rating agencies, customers, counterparties or investors about the Group’s financial strength. The FSOC may also recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators apply new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices that the Group and other insurers or other financial services companies engage in. • Title II of Dodd-Frank provides that a financial company may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy code, administered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as receiver, upon a determination that the company is in default or in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to US financial stability. • Dodd-Frank creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives markets and certain market participants which could affect various activities of the Group and its subsidiaries. • Dodd-Frank establishes a Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) within the Department of the Treasury to be headed by a director appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office would perform various functions with respect to insurance (other than health insurance), including participating in the FSOC’s decisions regarding insurers (potentially including the Group and its subsidiaries), to be designated for stricter regulation. The FIO may recommend enhanced regulations to the states. As of this writing, a director for FIO has not been named. • Dodd-Frank establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (“BCFP”) as an independent agency within the Federal Reserve to regulate consumer financial products and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes. The BCFP will have significant authority to implement and enforce federal consumer financial laws, including the new protections established under Dodd-Frank, as well as the authority to identify and prohibit unfair and deceptive acts and practices. In addition, the BCFP will have broad supervisory, examination and enforcement authority over certain consumer products, such as mortgage lending. Insurance products and services are not within the BCFP’s general jurisdiction, and broker-dealers and investment advisers are not subject to the BCFP’s jurisdiction when acting in their registered capacity. • Dodd-Frank also includes various securities law reforms that may affect the Group’s business practices and the liabilities and/or exposures associated therewith, including a provision intended to authorize the SEC to impose on broker-dealers fiduciary duties to their customers, as applies to investment advisers under existing law, which new standard could potentially expose certain of ING’s US broker-dealers to increased risk of SEC enforcement actions and liability. The SEC staff recently released a study on this issue. In addition to the adoption of these measures, regulators and lawmakers around the world are actively reviewing the causes of the financial crisis and exploring steps to avoid similar problems in the future. In many respects, this work is being led by the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”), consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations. The G20 and the FSB have issued a series of papers and recommendations intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly companies that are members of large and complex financial groups, should be regulated. These proposals address such issues as financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, systemic economic risk, corporate governance including executive compensation, and a host of related issues associated with responses to the financial crisis. The lawmakers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which the Group’s subsidiaries conduct business have already begun introducing legislative and regulatory changes consistent 13 Table of Contents with G20 and FSB recommendations, including proposals governing consolidated regulation of insurance holdings companies by the Financial Services Agency (FSA) in Japan, proposals governing executive compensation by the financial regulators in Germany (BaFIN) and the United Kingdom (FSA). Governments in the Netherlands and abroad have also intervened over the past few years on an unprecedented scale, responding to stresses experienced in the global financial markets. Some of the measures adopted subject us and other institutions for which they were designed to additional restrictions, oversight or costs. For restrictions related to the core Tier 1 Securities and the IABF, as further described in Item 4. “Information on the Company Recent Developments” (together, the “Dutch State Transactions”), see “— Our agreements with the Dutch State impose certain restrictions regarding the issuance or repurchase of our shares and the compensation of certain senior management positions”. As a result of having received state aid through the Dutch State Transactions, we were required to submit our Restructuring Plan to the EC in connection with obtaining final approval for the Dutch State Transactions. See “Risks Related to the Group — The implementation of the Restructuring Plan and the divestments anticipated in connection with that plan will significantly alter the size and structure of the Group and involve significant costs and uncertainties that could materially impact the Group”. On March 1, 2011, the European Court of Justice issued its judgment in the widely-followed Test Achats case. The Test Achats decision, in effect, provides that the use of gender as a factor in the pricing of or benefits under life and non-life insurance coverage is incompatible with the principles of equal treatment of men and women under the EU Charter. The Test Achat decision provides for a transition period, however, until December 21, 2012, after which the use of such gender-based factors will no longer be permissible. It is unclear whether this prohibition also applies to existing insurance contracts. While it is too early to assess the impacts of the Test Achats case on ING’s insurance business, it is expected that the industry generally will incur potentially significant compliance-related costs as policy forms, underwriting and pricing criteria, and related systems undergo required modifications. ING is unable at this stage to quantify the extent of any such costs or other impacts on its business, and intends to follow closely the implementation of the Test Achats decision during the above-referenced transition period. We cannot predict whether or when future legislative or regulatory actions may be taken, or what impact, if any, actions taken to date or in the future could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Despite our efforts to maintain effective compliance procedures and to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there are a number of risks in areas where applicable regulations may be unclear, subject to multiple interpretation or under development or may conflict with one another, where regulators revise their previous guidance or courts overturn previous rulings, or we fail to meet applicable standards. Regulators and other authorities have the power to bring administrative or judicial proceedings against us, which could result, amongst other things, in suspension or revocation of our licenses, cease and desist orders, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties or other disciplinary action which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. Turbulence and volatility in the financial markets have adversely affected us, and may continue to do so. Our results of operations are materially impacted by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. The stress experienced in the global capital markets that started in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased throughout 2008 and, although market conditions have improved, volatility continued in 2009, particularly the early part of the year. The crisis in the mortgage market in the United States, triggered by a serious deterioration of credit quality, led to a revaluation of credit risks. While certain conditions have improved over 2009 and 2010, these conditions have generally resulted in greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and overall shortage of liquidity and tightening of financial markets throughout the world. In addition, prices for many types of asset-backed securities (“ABS”) and other structured products have significantly deteriorated. These concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade, sovereign debt, the international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes, such as public and private equity, and real estate sectors. As a result of these and other factors, sovereign governments across the globe, including in regions where the Group operates, have also experienced budgetary and other financial difficulties, which have resulted in austerity measures, downgrades in credit rating by credit agencies, planned or implemented bail-out measures and, on occasion, civil unrest. As a result, the market for fixed income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. In addition, the confluence of these and other factors has resulted in volatile foreign exchange markets. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to dispose of. International equity markets have also been experiencing heightened volatility and 14 Table of Contents turmoil, with issuers, including ourselves, that have exposure to the real estate, mortgage, private equity and credit markets particularly affected. These events and market upheavals, including extreme levels of volatility, have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and extensive real estate activities around the world. In addition, the confidence of customers in financial institutions is being tested. Consumer confidence in financial institutions may, for example, decrease due to our or our competitors’ failure to communicate to customers the terms of, and the benefits to customers of, complex or high-fee financial products. Reduced confidence could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations, including through an increase of lapses or surrenders of policies and withdrawal of deposits. Because a significant percentage of our customer deposit base is originated via Internet banking, a loss of customer confidence may result in a rapid withdrawal of deposits over the Internet. As a result of the ongoing and unprecedented volatility in the global financial markets in 2007 and 2008, we have incurred substantial negative revaluations on our investment portfolio, which have impacted our shareholders’ equity and earnings. During 2009 and 2010, the revaluation reserve position improved substantially, positively impacting shareholders’ equity. Although we believe that reserves for insurance liabilities are generally adequate at the Group, inadequacies in certain product areas have developed. Such impacts have arisen primarily as a result of valuation issues arising in connection with our investments in real estate (both in and outside the US) and private equity, exposures to US mortgage-related structured investment products, including sub-prime and Alt-A Residential and Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities (“RMBS” and “CMBS”, respectively), Collateralized Debt Obligations (“CDOs”) and Collateralized Loan Obligations (“CLOs”), monoline insurer guarantees and other investments. In many cases, the markets for investments and instruments have been and remain highly illiquid, and issues relating to counterparty credit ratings and other factors have exacerbated pricing and valuation uncertainties. Valuation of such investments and instruments is a complex process involving the consideration of market transactions, pricing models, management judgment and other factors, and is also impacted by external factors such as underlying mortgage default rates, interest rates, rating agency actions and property valuations. We continue to monitor our exposures, however there can be no assurances that we will not experience further negative impacts to our shareholders’ equity or profit and loss accounts in future periods. Because we operate in highly competitive markets, including our home market, we may not be able to increase or maintain our market share, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. There is substantial competition in the Netherlands and the other countries in which we do business for the types of insurance, commercial banking, investment banking, asset management and other products and services we provide. Customer loyalty and retention can be influenced by a number of factors, including relative service levels, the prices and attributes of products and services, and actions taken by competitors. If we are not able to match or compete with the products and services offered by our competitors, it could adversely impact our ability to maintain or further increase our market share, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Such competition is most pronounced in our more mature markets of the Netherlands, Belgium, the Rest of Western Europe, the United States, Canada and Australia. In recent years, however, competition in emerging markets, such as Latin America, Asia and Central and Eastern Europe, has also increased as large insurance and banking industry participants from more developed countries have sought to establish themselves in markets which are perceived to offer higher growth potential, and as local institutions have become more sophisticated and competitive and have sought alliances, mergers or strategic relationships with our competitors. The Netherlands and the United States are our largest markets for both our banking and insurance operations. Our main competitors in the banking sector in the Netherlands are ABN AMRO Bank and Rabobank. Our main competitors in the insurance sector in the Netherlands are Achmea, ASR and Aegon. Our main competitors in the United States are insurance companies such as Lincoln National, Hartford, Aegon Americas, AXA, Met Life, Prudential, Nationwide and Principal Financial. Increasing competition in these or any of our other markets may significantly impact our results if we are unable to match the products and services offered by our competitors. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. These developments could result in our competitors gaining greater access to capital and liquidity, expanding their ranges of products and services, or gaining geographic diversity. We may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors in the event that some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. In addition, under the Restructuring Plan we have agreed to certain restrictions imposed by the EC, including with respect to our price leadership in EU banking markets and our ability to make acquisitions of financial institutions and other businesses. See “— The limitations agreed with the EC on our ability to compete and to make acquisitions or call certain debt instruments could materially impact the Group”. 15 Table of Contents Because we do business with many counterparties, the inability of these counterparties to meet their financial obligations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. General Third-parties that owe us money, securities or other assets may not pay or perform under their obligations. These parties include the issuers whose securities we hold, borrowers under loans originated, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps, credit default and other derivative contracts, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries. Defaults by one or more of these parties on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, downturns in the economy or real estate values, operational failure, etc., or even rumours about potential defaults by one or more of these parties or regarding the financial services industry generally, could lead to losses for us, and defaults by other institutions. In light of experiences with significant constraints on liquidity and high cost of funds in the interbank lending market, and given the high level of interdependence between financial institutions, we are and will continue to be subject to the risk of deterioration of the commercial and financial soundness, or perceived soundness, of other financial services institutions. This is particularly relevant to our franchise as an important and large counterparty in equity, fixed-income and foreign exchange markets, including related derivatives, which exposes it to concentration risk. We routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, insurance companies and other institutional clients, resulting in large daily settlement amounts and significant credit exposure. As a result, we face concentration risk with respect to specific counterparties and customers. We are exposed to increased counterparty risk as a result of recent financial institution failures and weakness and will continue to be exposed to the risk of loss if counterparty financial institutions fail or are otherwise unable to meet their obligations. A default by, or even concerns about the creditworthiness of, one or more financial services institutions could therefore lead to further significant systemic liquidity problems, or losses or defaults by other financial institutions. With respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized, or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. We also have exposure to a number of financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions and equity investments. For example, we hold certain hybrid regulatory capital instruments issued by financial institutions which permit the issuer to defer coupon payments on the occurrence of certain events or at their option. The EC has indicated that, in certain circumstances, it may require these financial institutions to defer payment. If this were to happen, we expect that such instruments may experience ratings downgrades and/or a drop in value and we may have to treat them as impaired, which could result in significant losses. There is no assurance that losses on, or impairments to the carrying value of, these assets would not materially and adversely affect our business or results of operations. In addition, we are subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. The deterioration or perceived deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our income and risk weighting, leading to increased capital requirements. While in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. Our credit risk may also be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure that is due to us, which is most likely to occur during periods of illiquidity and depressed asset valuations, such as those currently experienced. The termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of its rights. Bankruptcies, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral tend to increase in times of market stress and illiquidity. Any of these developments or losses could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or prospects. Reinsurers Our insurance operations have bought protection for risks that exceed certain risk tolerance levels set for both our life and non-life businesses. This protection is bought through reinsurance arrangements in order to reduce possible losses. Because in most cases we must pay the policyholders first, and then collect from the reinsurer, we are subject to credit risk with respect to each reinsurer for all such amounts. As a percentage of our 16 Table of Contents (potential) reinsurance as of December 31, 2010, the greatest exposure after collateral to an individual external reinsurer was approximately 24%, approximately 40% related to four other external reinsurers and the remainder of the reinsurance exposure related to various other reinsurers. The inability or unwillingness of any one of these reinsurers to meet its financial obligations to us, or the insolvency of our reinsurers, could have a material adverse effect on our net results and our financial results. Improving market conditions observed over the last year, may not persist and increase the risk of loans being impaired. We are exposed to declining property values on the collateral supporting residential and commercial real estate lending. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers may not repay their loans according to their contractual terms and that the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient. We may continue to see adverse changes in the credit quality of our borrowers and counterparties, for example as a result of their inability to refinance their indebtedness, with increasing delinquencies, defaults and insolvencies across a range of sectors. This may lead to impairment charges on loans and other assets, higher costs and additions to loan loss provisions. A significant increase in the size of our provision for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Economic and other factors could lead to further contraction in the residential mortgage and commercial lending market and to further decreases in residential and commercial property prices which could generate substantial increases in impairment losses. Interest rate volatility may adversely affect our profitability. Changes in prevailing interest rates may negatively affect our business including the level of net interest revenue we earn, and for our banking business the levels of deposits and the demand for loans. In a period of changing interest rates, interest expense may increase at different rates than the interest earned on assets. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease net interest revenue. Changes in the interest rates may negatively affect the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains or avoid losses from the sale of those assets, all of which also ultimately affect earnings. In addition, an increase in interest rates may decrease the demand for loans. In addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive to consumers, resulting in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, and a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year-to-year, creating asset liability duration mismatches. A decrease in interest rates may also require an addition to provisions for guarantees included in life policies, as the guarantees become more valuable to policy holders. During a low interest rate period, our investment earnings may be lower because the interest earnings on our fixed income investments will likely have declined in parallel with market interest rates on our assets recorded at fair value. Declining interest rates may also affect the results of our reserve adequacy testing which may in turn result in reserve strengthening. In addition, mortgages and fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolios will be more likely to be prepaid or redeemed as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates. Consequently, we may be required to reinvest the proceeds in securities bearing lower interest rates. Accordingly, during periods of declining interest rates, our profitability may suffer as the result of a decrease in the spread between interest rates charged to policyholders and returns on our investment portfolios. Conversely, in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, policy loans, and withdrawals and surrenders of life insurance policies and fixed annuity contracts may increase as policyholders choose to forego insurance protection and seek higher investment returns. Obtaining cash to satisfy these obligations may require us to liquidate fixed maturity investments at a time when market prices for those assets are depressed because of increases in interest rates. This may result in realized investment losses. Regardless of whether we realize an investment loss, these cash payments would result in a decrease in total invested assets, and may decrease our net income. Premature withdrawals may also cause us to accelerate amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, which would also reduce our net income. We may incur losses due to failures of banks falling under the scope of state compensation schemes. In the Netherlands and other jurisdictions deposit guarantee schemes and similar funds (“Compensation Schemes”) have been implemented from which compensation may become payable to customers of financial services firms in the event the financial service firm is unable to pay, or unlikely to pay, claims against it. In many jurisdictions in which we operate, these Compensation Schemes are funded, directly or indirectly, by financial services firms which operate and/or are licensed in the relevant jurisdiction. As a result of the increased number of bank failures, in particular since the fall of 2008, we expect that levies in the industry will 17 Table of Contents continue to rise as a result of the Compensation Schemes. In particular, we are a participant in the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme, which guarantees an amount of EUR 100,000 per person per bank (regardless of the number of accounts held). The costs involved with making compensation payments under the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme are allocated among the participating banks by the Dutch Central Bank, De Nederlandsche Bank N.V. (the “DNB”), based on an allocation key related to their market shares with respect to the deposits protected by the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Schemes. Given our size we may incur significant compensation payments to be made under the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme, which we may be unable to recover from the bankrupt estate. The ultimate costs to the industry of payments which may become due under the Compensation Schemes, remains uncertain although they may be significant and these and the associated costs to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Going forward the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme may change from an ex-post scheme, where we contribute after the failure of a firm, to an ex-ante scheme where we pay yearly contributions to ensure the scheme holds a target level of fund regardless of whether any failures occur. The costs associated with potential future yearly contributions are today unknown, but given our size may be significant. Risks Related to the Group’s Business, Operations, and Regulatory Environment We may be unable to manage our risks successfully through derivatives. We employ various economic hedging strategies with the objective of mitigating the market risks that are inherent in our business and operations. These risks include currency fluctuations, changes in the fair value of our investments, the impact of interest rate, equity markets and credit spread changes and changes in mortality and longevity. We seek to control these risks by, among other things, entering into a number of derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forward contracts including from time to time macro hedges for parts of our business. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with these risks is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with those fluctuations. Our hedging strategies also rely on assumptions and projections regarding our assets, general market factors and the credit worthiness of our counterparties that may prove to be incorrect or prove to be inadequate. Accordingly, our hedging activities may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risks and losses. If we terminate a hedging arrangement, we may also be required to pay additional costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs. There have been periods in the past, and it is likely that there will be periods in the future, during which we have incurred or may incur losses on transactions, perhaps significant, after taking into account our hedging strategies. Further, the nature and timing of our hedging transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction costs and other costs. Our hedging strategies and the derivatives that we use and may use may not adequately mitigate or offset the risk of interest rate volatility, and our hedging transactions may result in losses. Because we use assumptions about factors, the use of different assumptions about these factors may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The establishment of insurance provisions, including the impact of minimum guarantees which are contained within certain variable annuity products, the adequacy test performed on the provisions for life policies and the establishment of Defered Acquisition Costs (DAC) and Value of Business Acquired (VOBA) are inherently uncertain processes involving assumptions about factors such as court decisions, changes in laws, social, economic and demographic trends, inflation, investment returns, policyholder behaviour (e.g., lapses, persistency, etc.) and other factors, and, in the life insurance business, assumptions concerning mortality, longevity and morbidity trends. The use of different assumptions about these factors could have a material effect on insurance provisions and underwriting expense. Changes in assumptions may lead to changes in the insurance provisions over time. Furthermore, some of these assumptions can be volatile. Because we use assumptions to model client behaviour for the purpose of our market risk calculations, the difference between the realization and the assumptions may have an adverse impact on the risk figures and future results. We use assumptions in order to model client behaviour for the risk calculations in our banking and insurance books. Assumptions are used to determine insurance liabilities, the price sensitivity of savings and current accounts and to estimate the embedded optional risk in the mortgage and investment portfolios. The realization or use of different assumptions to determine the client behaviour could have material adverse effect on the calculated risk figures and ultimately future results. 18 Table of Contents ING Insurance has a significant exposure to the take up of policy options by policyholders. The exposure is greatest for variable annuity business with guarantees deeply in-the-money, policyholder behaviour is difficult to predict and small changes in the proportion of policyholders taking up an option can have a significant financial impact. Furthermore, assumptions about policyholder behaviour are sometimes made for new insurance business without a substantial amount of experiential data. These assumptions may prove imperfect, which can have a material impact on results. We may incur further liabilities in respect of our defined benefit retirement plans if the value of plan assets is not sufficient to cover potential obligations, including as a result of differences between results and underlying actuarial assumptions and models. ING Group companies operate various defined benefit retirement plans covering a significant number of our employees. The liability recognized in our consolidated balance sheet in respect of our defined benefit plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of each plan’s assets, together with adjustments for unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and unrecognized past service costs. We determine our defined benefit plan obligations based on internal and external actuarial models and calculations using the projected unit credit method. Inherent in these actuarial models are assumptions including discount rates, rates of increase in future salary and benefit levels, mortality rates, trend rates in health care costs, consumer price index, and the expected return on plan assets. These assumptions are based on available market data and the historical performance of plan assets, and are updated annually. Nevertheless, the actuarial assumptions may differ significantly from actual results due to changes in market conditions, economic and mortality trends and other assumptions. Any changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on our present and future liabilities to and costs associated with our defined benefit retirement plans. Our risk management policies and guidelines may prove inadequate for the risks we face. The methods we use to manage, estimate and measure risk are partly based on historic market behaviour. The methods may, therefore, prove to be inadequate for predicting future risk exposure, which may be significantly greater than what is suggested by historic experience. For instance, these methods did not predict the losses seen in the stressed conditions in recent periods, and may also not adequately allow prediction of circumstances arising due to the government interventions and stimulus packages, which increase the difficulty of evaluating risks. Other methods for risk management are based on evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other information that is publicly known or otherwise available to us. Such information may not always be correct, updated or correctly evaluated. We are subject to a variety of regulatory risks as a result of our operations in certain countries. In certain countries in which we operate, judiciary and dispute resolution systems may be less developed. As a result in case of a breach of contract we may have difficulties in making and enforcing claims against contractual counterparties and, if claims are made against us, we might encounter difficulties in mounting a defence against such allegations. If we become party to legal proceedings in a market with an insufficiently developed judiciary system, it could have an adverse effect on our operations and net result. In addition, as a result of our operations in certain countriess, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, exchange controls and other restrictive government actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities, in these markets. In addition, the current economic environment in certain of these countries in which we operate may increase the likelihood for regulatory initiatives to protect homeowners from foreclosures. Any such regulatory initiative could have an adverse impact on our ability to protect our economic interest in the event of defaults on residential mortgages. Because we are continually developing new financial products, we might be faced with claims that could have an adverse effect on our operations and net result if clients’ expectations are not met. When new financial products are brought to the market, communication and marketing aims to present a balanced view of the product (however there is a focus on potential advantages for the customers). Whilst we engage in a due diligence process when we develop products, if the products do not generate the expected profit, or result in a loss, or otherwise do not meet expectations, customers may file claims against us. Such claims could have an adverse effect on our operations and net result. 19 Table of Contents Ratings are important to our business for a number of reasons. Downgrades could have an adverse impact on our operations and net results. We have credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service, Moody’s Investor Service and Fitch Ratings. Each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings and rating methodologies on a recurring basis and may decide on a downgrade at any time. In the event of a downgrade the cost of issuing debt will increase, having an adverse effect on net results. Certain institutional investors may also be obliged to withdraw their deposits from ING following a downgrade, which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Claims paying ability, at the Group or subsidiary level, and financial strength ratings are factors in establishing the competitive position of insurers. A rating downgrade could elevate lapses or surrenders of policies requiring cash payments, which might force us to sell assets at a price that may result in realized investment losses. Among others, total invested assets decreases and deferred acquisition costs might need to be accelerated, adversely impacting earnings. A downgrade may adversely impact relationships with distributors of our products and services and customers, which may affect new sales and our competitive position. Furthermore, ING Bank’s assets are risk weighted. Downgrades of these assets could result in a higher risk weighting which may result in higher capital requirements. This may impact net earnings and the return on capital, and may have an adverse impact on our competitive position. For ING’s insurance businesses in a number of jurisdictions, such as the US and the EU, downgrades of assets will similarly affect the capital requirements for ING Insurance in those jurisdictions. Our business may be negatively affected by a sustained increase in inflation. A sustained increase in the inflation rate in our principal markets would have multiple impacts on us and may negatively affect our business, solvency position and results of operations. For example, a sustained increase in the inflation rate may result in an increase in market interest rates which may (1) decrease the value of certain fixed income securities we hold in our investment portfolios resulting in reduced levels of unrealized capital gains available to us which could negatively impact our solvency position and net income, (2) result in increased surrenders of certain life & savings products, particularly, those with fixed rates below market rates, and (3) require us, as an issuer of securities, to pay higher interest rates on debt securities we issue in the financial markets from time to time to finance our operations which would increase our interest expenses and reduce our results of operations. A significant and sustained increase in inflation has historically also been associated with decreased prices for equity securities and sluggish performance of equity markets generally. A sustained decline in equity markets may (1) result in impairment charges to equity securities that we hold in our investment portfolios and reduced levels of unrealized capital gains available to us which would reduce our net income and negatively impact our solvency position, (2) negatively impact performance, future sales and surrenders of our unit-linked products where underlying investments are often allocated to equity funds, and (3) negatively impact the ability of our asset management subsidiaries to retain and attract assets under management, as well as the value of assets they do manage, which may negatively impact their results of operations. In addition, in the context of certain property & casualty risks underwritten by our insurance subsidiaries (particularly “long-tail” risks), a sustained increase in inflation with a resulting increase in market interest rates may result in (1) claims inflation (i.e., an increase in the amount ultimately paid to settle claims several years after the policy coverage period or event giving rise to the claim), coupled with (2) an underestimation of corresponding claims reserves at the time of establishment due to a failure to fully anticipate increased inflation and its effect on the amounts ultimately payable to policyholders, and, consequently, (3) actual claims payments significantly exceeding associated insurance reserves which would negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, a failure to accurately anticipate higher inflation and factor it into our product pricing assumptions may result in a systemic mispricing of our products resulting in underwriting losses which would negatively impact our results of operations. Operational risks are inherent in our business. Our businesses depend on the ability to process a large number of transactions efficiently and accurately. Losses can result from inadequate trained or skilled personnel, IT failures, inadequate or failed internal control 20 Table of Contents processes and systems, regulatory breaches, human errors, employee misconduct including fraud, or from external events that interrupt normal business operations. We depend on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. The equipment and software used in our computer systems and networks may be at or near the end of their useful lives or may not be capable of processing, storing or transmitting information as expected. Certain of our computer systems and networks may also have insufficient recovery capabilities in the event of a malfunction or loss of data. In addition, such systems and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other external attacks or internal breaches that could have a security impact and jeopardize our confidential information or that of our clients or our counterparts. These events can potentially result in financial loss, harm to our reputation and hinder our operational effectiveness. We also face the risk that the design and operating effectiveness of our controls and procedures prove to be inadequate or are circumvented. Furthermore, widespread outbreaks of communicable diseases, such as the outbreak of the H1N1 influenza virus, may impact the health of our employees, increasing absenteeism, or may cause a significant increase in the utilization of health benefits offered to our employees, either or both of which could adversely impact our business. Unforeseeable and/or catastrophic events can lead to an abrupt interruption of activities, and our operations may be subject to losses resulting from such disruptions. Losses can result from destruction or impairment of property, financial assets, trading positions, the payment of insurance and pension benefits to employees and the loss of key personnel. If our business continuity plans are not able to be implemented or do not take such events into account, losses may increase further. We have suffered losses from operational risk in the past and there can be no assurance that we will not suffer material losses from operational risk in the future. Reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. We may also decide to reduce, eliminate or decline primary insurance or reinsurance coverage. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various insurance business segments. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business. In addition, we determine the appropriate level of primary insurance and reinsurance coverage based on a number of factors and from time to time decide to reduce, eliminate or decline coverage based on our assessment of the costs and benefits involved. In such cases, the uninsured risk remains with us. Our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies or the financial services industry in general. Adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from our failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, financial reporting irregularities involving other large and well known companies, increasing regulatory and law enforcement scrutiny of “know your customer” anti-money laundering, prohibited transactions with countries subject to sanctions, and bribery or other anti-corruption measures and anti-terrorist-financing procedures and their effectiveness, regulatory investigations of the mutual fund, banking and insurance industries, and litigation that arises from the failure or perceived failure by us to comply with legal, regulatory and compliance requirements, could result in adverse publicity and reputation harm, lead to increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers, maintain access to the capital markets, result in cease and desist orders, suits, enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal penalties, other disciplinary action or have other material adverse effects on us in ways that are not predictable. Risks related to the Restructuring Plan The implementation of the Restructuring Plan and the divestments anticipated in connection with that plan will significantly alter the size and structure of the Group and involve significant costs and uncertainties that could materially impact the Group. In November 2008 the Dutch State purchased the core Tier 1 Securities, and in the first quarter of 2009 we entered into the Illiquid Asset Back-up Facility (IABF) with the Dutch State. As a result of having received state aid through the Dutch State Transactions, we were required to submit a restructuring plan (the “Restructuring Plan”) to the EC in connection with obtaining final approval for the Dutch State Transactions under the EC state aid rules. On October 26, 2009, we announced our Restructuring Plan, pursuant to which we are required to divest by the end of 2013 all of our insurance business, including the investment management business, as well as ING Direct US, which operates our direct banking business in the United States, and certain portions of our retail banking business in the Netherlands. The EC’s approval of the Restructuring Plan was issued on 21 Table of Contents November 18, 2009. On January 28, 2010 ING lodged an appeal with the General Court of the European Union (the “General Court”) against specific elements of the EC’s decision regarding the Restructuring Plan. Although we believe in the merit of our appeal lodged with the General Court of the European Union, there can be no assurance as to its success or as to any consequences resulting from its rejection. Notwithstanding this appeal, we are committed executing the Restructuring Plan as announced on October 26, 2009. In connection with the Restructuring Plan, we have also agreed to not be a price leader in certain EU markets with respect to certain retail, private and direct banking products and to refrain from (i) acquisitions of financial institutions and (ii) acquisitions of other businesses if this would delay our repurchase of the remaining core Tier 1 Securities. Those limitations may last until November 18, 2012 and could adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow market share in key markets as well as our results of operations. See “Risks Related to the Group — The limitations agreed with the EC on our ability to compete and to make acquisitions or call certain debt instruments could materially impact the Group”. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement the Restructuring Plan successfully or complete the announced divestments on favorable terms or at all, particularly in light of both the plan’s 2013 deadline and expected challenging market conditions in which other financial institutions may place similar assets for sale during the same time period and may seek to dispose of assets in the same manner. Any failure to successfully implement the Restructuring Plan may result in EC enforcement actions and may have a material adverse impact on the assets, profitability, capital adequacy and business operations of the Group. Moreover, in connection with the implementation of the Restructuring Plan, including any proposed divestments, we or potential buyers may need to obtain various approvals, including of shareholders, works councils and regulatory and competition authorities, and we and potential buyers may face difficulties in obtaining these approvals in a timely manner or at all. In addition, the implementation of the Restructuring Plan may strain relations with our employees, and specific proposals in connection with the implementation may be opposed by labor unions or works councils. Furthermore, following the announcement of the Restructuring Plan, several of our subsidiaries have been downgraded or put on credit watch by rating agencies. See “Risks Related to the Group — Ratings are important to our business for a number of reasons. Downgrades could have an adverse impact on our operations and net results”. Other factors that may impede our ability to implement the Restructuring Plan successfully include an inability of prospective purchasers to obtain funding due to the deterioration of the credit markets, insufficient access to equity capital markets, a general unwillingness of prospective purchasers to commit capital in the current market environment, antitrust concerns, any adverse changes in market interest rates or other borrowing costs and any declines in the value of the assets to be divested. Similarly, it may also be difficult to divest all or part of our insurance or investment management business through one or more initial public offerings. There can also be no assurance that we could obtain favorable pricing for a sale of all or part of our insurance or investment management business in the public markets or succeed in turning the relevant subsidiaries into viable standalone businesses. A divestment may also release less regulatory capital than we would otherwise expect. Any failure to complete the divestments on favorable terms, could have a material adverse impact on our assets, profitability, capital adequacy and business operations. If we are unable to complete the announced divestments in a timely manner, we would be required to find alternative ways to reduce our leverage, and we could be subject to enforcement actions or proceedings by the EC. In particular, if we do not succeed in completing divestitures as described in the Restructuring Plan within the timelines set out therein, the EC may request the Dutch State to appoint a divestiture trustee with a mandate to complete the relevant divestiture with no minimum price. The implementation of the divestments announced in connection with the Restructuring Plan, including the separation of the insurance and most of the investment management operations from the banking operations, will also give rise to additional costs related to the legal and financial assessment of potential transactions. The implementation may also result in increased operating and administrative costs. The process of completing the steps contemplated by the Restructuring Plan may be disruptive to our business and the businesses we are trying to sell and may cause an interruption or reduction of our business and the businesses to be sold as a result of, among other factors, the loss of key employees or customers and the diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to manage the divestment process as well as any disruptions or difficulties that arise during the course of the divestment process. We may face other difficulties in implementing the Restructuring Plan and completing the planned divestments. For instance, the divestments, individually or in the aggregate, may trigger provisions in various contractual obligations, including debt instruments, which could require us to modify, restructure or refinance the related obligations. We may not be able to effect any such restructuring or refinancing on similar terms as the current contractual obligations or at all. In addition, the announced divestments could be the subject of challenges or litigation, and a court could delay any of the divestment transactions or prohibit them from occurring on their proposed terms, or from occurring at all, which could adversely affect our ability to use the funds of the divestments to repurchase the 22 Table of Contents core Tier 1 Securities, reduce or eliminate our double leverage and strengthen our capital ratios as anticipated and eliminate the constraints on competition imposed by the EC. The limitations agreed with the EC on our ability to compete and to make acquisitions or call certain debt instruments could materially impact the Group. As part of our Restructuring Plan, we have undertaken with the EC to accept certain limitations on our ability to compete in certain retail, private and direct banking markets in the European Union and on our ability to acquire (i) financial institutions and (ii) businesses insofar this would delay our repurchase of the remaining core Tier 1 Securities held by the Dutch State. These restrictions apply until the earlier of (1) November 18, 2012, and (2) the date upon which we repurchase all remaining core Tier 1 Securities held by the Dutch State. We have also agreed to limitations on our ability to call Tier-2 capital and Tier 1 hybrid debt instruments. If the EC does not approve the calling of Tier-2 capital and Tier 1 hybrid debt instruments in the future, this may have adverse consequences for us, result in additional payments on these instruments and limit our ability to seek refinancing on more favorable terms. The limitations described above will impose significant restrictions on our banking business operations and on our ability to take advantage of market conditions and growth opportunities. Such restrictions could adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow market share in key markets, as well as our results of operations. Upon the implementation of the Restructuring Plan, we will be less diversified and may experience competitive and other disadvantages. Following completion of the planned divestments under the Restructuring Plan, we expect to become a significantly smaller, regional financial institution focused on retail, direct and commercial banking in the Benelux region and certain other parts of Europe, as well as selected markets outside Europe. Although we will remain focused on banking operations, we may become a smaller bank than that represented by our current banking operations. In the highly competitive Benelux market and the other markets in which we operate, our competitors may be larger, more diversified and better capitalized and have greater geographical reach than us, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete, as well as on our profitability. The divested businesses may also compete with the retained businesses, on their own or as part of the purchasers’ enlarged businesses. In addition, the restrictions on our ability to be a price leader and make acquisitions and on our compensation policies could further hinder our capacity to compete with competitors not burdened with such restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There can be no assurance that the implementation of the Restructuring Plan will not have a material adverse effect on the market share, business and growth opportunities and results of operations for our remaining core banking businesses. Our Restructuring Programs may not yield intended reductions in costs, risk and leverage. On October 26, 2009, we announced that we had reached an agreement with the EC on the Restructuring Plan. Projected cost savings and impact on our risk profile and capital associated with these initiatives are subject to a variety of risks, including: • contemplated costs to effect these initiatives may exceed estimates; • divestments planned in connection with the Restructuring Plan may not yield the level of net proceeds expected, as described under “Risks Related to the Group — The implementation of the Restructuring Plan and the divestments anticipated in connection with that plan will significantly alter the size and structure of the Group and involve significant costs and uncertainties that could materially impact the Group”; • initiatives we are contemplating may require consultation with various regulators as well as employees and labor representatives, and such consultations may influence the timing, costs and extent of expected savings; • the loss of skilled employees in connection with the initiatives; and • projected savings may fall short of targets. While we have begun and expect to continue to implement these strategies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully or that we will realize the projected benefits of these and other restructuring and cost saving initiatives. If we are unable to realize these anticipated cost reductions, our business may be adversely affected. Moreover, our continued implementation of restructuring and cost saving initiatives may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 Table of Contents Our agreements with the Dutch State impose certain restrictions regarding the issuance or repurchase of our shares and the compensation of certain senior management positions. For so long as the Dutch State holds at least 25% of the core Tier 1 Securities, for so long as the IABF is in place, or for so long as any of the government guaranteed senior unsecured bonds issued by ING Bank N.V. under the Credit Guarantee Scheme of the Netherlands (the “Government Guaranteed Bonds”) are outstanding, we are prohibited from issuing or repurchasing any of our own shares (other than as part of regular hedging operations and the issuance of shares according to employment schemes) without the consent of the Dutch State’s nominees on the Supervisory Board. In addition, under the terms of the core Tier 1 Securities and IABF, we have agreed to institute certain restrictions on the compensation of the members of the Executive Board and senior management, including incentives or performance-based compensation. These restrictions could hinder or prevent us from attracting or retaining the most qualified management with the talent and experience to manage our business effectively. In connection with these transactions, the Dutch State was granted the right to nominate two candidates for appointment to the Supervisory Board. The Dutch State’s nominees have veto rights over certain material transactions. Our agreements with the Dutch State have also led to certain restrictions imposed by the EC as part of the Restructuring Plan, including with respect to our price leadership in EU banking markets and our ability to make acquisitions of financial institutions and other businesses. See “Risks Related to the Group — The limitations agreed with the EC on our ability to compete and to make acquisitions or call certain debt instruments could materially impact the Group”. Whenever the overall return on the (remaining) core Tier 1 securities issued to the Dutch State is expected to be lower than 10% p.a., the European Commission may consider the imposition of additional behavioural constraints. As stated in the decision of the European Commission of 12 November 2008 (in State aid N 528/2008 — The Netherlands), the core Tier 1 state-aid measure must be (re)notified to the European Commission by the Dutch authorities whenever the overall return on the core Tier 1 Securities is expected to be lower than 10% p.a. Such (re)notification by the Dutch authorities is particularly required (i) when ING abstains from paying dividend on its shares for a period of two consecutive years or for three years in the five years following the date of the aforementioned decision or (ii) if after a transition period of one year following the date of the aforementioned decision, the share price over a period of two consecutive years remains on average below EUR 13. In such cases, the European Commission may require additional behavioural constraints as a condition of the compatibility of the measure. Additional risks relating to ownership of ING shares Because we are a Dutch company and because the Stichting ING Aandelen holds more than 99.9% of our ordinary shares, the rights of our shareholders may differ from the rights of shareholders in other jurisdictions or companies that do not use a similar trust structure, which could affect your rights as a shareholder. While holders of our bearer depositary receipts are entitled to attend and speak at our General Meeting of Shareholders (“General Meeting”), voting rights are not attached to the bearer depositary receipts. The Trust holds more than 99.9% of our ordinary shares, and exercises the voting rights attached to the ordinary shares (for which bearer depositary receipts have been issued). Holders of bearer depositary receipts who attend — in person or by proxy — the General Meeting must obtain and are entitled to voting rights by proxy from the Trust. Holders of bearer depositary receipts and holders of the ADSs (American depositary shares) representing the bearer depositary receipts who do not attend the General Meeting may give binding voting instructions to the Trust. The Trust is entitled to vote on any ordinary shares underlying the bearer depositary receipts for which the Trust has not granted voting proxies, or voting instructions have not been given to the Trust. In exercising its voting discretion, the Trust is required to be guided primarily by the interests of the holders of bearer depositary receipts, while also taking into account: § our interests, and § the interests of our affiliates The Trust may, but has no obligation to, consult with the holders of bearer depositary receipts in exercising its voting rights in respect of any ordinary shares for which it is entitled to vote. These arrangements differ from practices in other jurisdictions, and accordingly may affect the rights of the holders of bearer depositary receipts and their power to affect ING’s business and operations. 24 Table of Contents The share price of ING shares has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The share price of our bearer depositary receipts has been volatile in the past, and the share price and trading volume of our bearer depositary receipts may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due, in part, to changes in our actual or forecast operating results and the inability to fulfil the profit expectations of securities analysts, as well as to the high volatility in the securities markets generally and more particularly in shares of financial institutions. Other factors, besides our financial results, that may impact our share price include, but are not limited to: § market expectations of the performance and capital adequacy of financial institutions in general; § investor perception of the success and impact of our strategies; § a downgrade or review of our credit ratings; § the implementation and outcome of our Restructuring Plan; § potential litigation or regulatory action involving ING or sectors we have exposure to through our insurance and banking activities; § announcements concerning financial problems or any investigations into the accounting practices of other financial institutions; and § general market circumstances. There can be no assurance that we will pay dividends on our ordinary shares in the future. It is ING’s policy to pay dividends in relation to the long-term underlying development of cash earnings. Dividends can only be declared by shareholders when the Executive Board considers such dividends appropriate, taking into consideration the financial conditions then prevailing and the longer-term outlook. See “Item 8. Financial Information — Dividends”. Given the uncertain financial environment, ING will not pay a dividend over 2010 and there can be no assurance that we will pay dividends in the future. Certain transactions have resulted in the cumulative change in ownership of our U.S. subsidiaries of approximately 43% for U.S. tax purposes as of December 21, 2009. Future increases of capital or other changes in ownership may adversely affect our net result and equity. Sections 382 and 383 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code contain loss limitation rules, the general purpose of which is to prevent trafficking in tax losses (i.e. they are anti-abuse rules). The rules are triggered when the ownership of a corporation changes by more than 50% (measured by value) on a cumulative basis in any three-year period. If triggered, restrictions may be imposed on the future use of realized tax losses as well as certain losses that are built into the assets of the corporation at the time of the ownership change and that are realized within the next five years. As of December 21, 2009, the cumulative change in ownership of our U.S. subsidiaries was approximately 43% for purposes of Sections 382 and 383 (taking into account the issuance of the core Tier 1 Securities to the Dutch State on November 12, 2008, the repurchase of some of the core Tier 1 Securities on December 21, 2009, and the issuance of Ordinary shares on December 21, 2009). However, the calculation is subject to uncertainties and is based on various assumptions. Future increases of capital or other changes in ownership may adversely affect our net result and equity. The remaining core Tier 1 Securities issued to the Dutch State may be converted into ordinary shares or bearer depositary receipts and dilute existing shareholders. The terms of the core Tier 1 Securities permit us, on or after November 12, 2011, to convert any or all of the remaining core Tier 1 Securities (EUR 5 billion per year end 2010) into ordinary shares or bearer depositary receipts on the basis of one core Tier-1 security for 1,335 ordinary shares or bearer depositary receipts. Any such conversion would dilute existing shareholders. If we exercise our conversion right, the Dutch State may opt to require us to redeem the core Tier 1 Securities on the conversion date at the original issue price of EUR 10 per core Tier 1 Security, together with the pro rata coupon, if due, accrued to such date. Certain holders of ING shares may not be able to participate in future equity offerings with subscription rights. We may undertake future equity offerings with subscription rights. Holders of ING shares in certain jurisdictions, however, may not be entitled to exercise such rights unless the rights and the related shares are registered or qualified for sale under the relevant legislation or regulatory framework. Holders of ING shares in these jurisdictions may suffer dilution of their shareholding should they not be permitted to participate in future equity offerings with subscription rights. 25 Table of Contents 