ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We encourage you to carefully consider all of the following risk factors when making investment decisions regarding our company. If any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Fluctuations in our operating results may cause our stock price to decline. Given the nature of the markets in which we participate, it is difficult to reliably predict future revenues and profitability. Changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may cause us to adjust our operations. A high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant sales, research and development and 18 Table of Contents manufacturing costs. Thus, small declines in revenue could disproportionately affect our operating results. Factors that may affect our operating results and the market price of our Common Stock include: • demand for and market acceptance of our products; • competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices; • adverse changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business; • low or fluctuating levels of political stability in regions in which we do business; • adverse changes in industries, such as semiconductors and electronics, on which we are particularly dependent; • changes in the portions of our revenue represented by various products and customers; • delays or problems in the introduction of new products; • the announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations by our competitors; • variations in our product mix; • the timing and amount of our expenditures in anticipation of future sales; • the availability of equity and credit markets to provide our customers with funding to make equipment purchases; • exchange rate fluctuations; • increased costs of raw materials or supplies; • changes in the volume or timing of product orders; • timing of completion of acceptance testing of some of our products; • changes in regulatory requirements; • natural disasters; and • changes in general economic factors. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our profitability. Our international sales and our operations in foreign countries expose us to risks associated with fluctuating currency values and exchange rates. Gains and losses on the conversion of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities to U.S. dollars may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. In addition, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We face aggressive competition in many areas of business. If we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. In the security and inspection and patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems markets, competition is based primarily on such factors as product performance, functionality and quality, cost, prior customer relationships, technological capabilities of the product, price, certification by government authorities, local market presence and breadth of sales and service organization. In the optoelectronic devices and electronics manufacturing markets, competition is based primarily on factors such as expertise in the design and development of optoelectronic devices, product quality, timeliness of delivery, price, customer technical support and on the ability to provide fully-integrated services from application development and design through volume 19 Table of Contents subsystem production. We may not be able to compete effectively with all of our competitors. To remain competitive, we must develop new products and enhance our existing products and services in a timely manner. We anticipate that we may have to adjust prices of many of our products to stay competitive. In addition, new competitors may emerge, and entire product lines or service offerings may be threatened by new technologies or market trends that reduce the value of these product lines or service offerings. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the creation of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security have increased financial expectations that may not materialize. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the subsequent creation of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security have created increased interest in our security and inspection systems. However, we are not certain whether the level of demand will continue to be as high as it is now. We do not know what solutions will continue to be adopted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of Defense, and similar agencies in other countries and whether our products will be a part of those solutions. Additionally, should our products be considered as a part of the future security solutions, it is unclear what the level may be and how quickly funding to purchase our products may be made available. These factors may adversely impact us and create unpredictability in revenues and operating results. If operators of, or algorithms installed in, our security and inspection systems fail to detect weapons, explosives or other devices that are used to commit a terrorist act, we could be exposed to product and professional liability and related claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing, sale and service of security inspection systems as well as in the provision of training to our customers in the use and operation of such systems. Our customers use our security and inspection systems to help them detect items that could be used in performing terrorist acts or other crimes. Some of our security and inspection systems require that an operator interpret an image of suspicious items within a bag, parcel, container or other vessel. Others signal to the operator that further investigation is required. In either case, the training, reliability and competence of the customer’s operator are crucial to the detection of suspicious items. Security inspection systems that signal to the operator that further investigation is required are sometimes referred to in the security industry as “automatic” detection systems. Such systems utilize software algorithms (often designed to meet government requirements) to interpret data produced by the system and to signal to the operator when a dangerous object may be present. Such algorithms are probabilistic in nature and are also subject to significant technical limitations. Nevertheless, if such a system were to fail to signal to an operator when an explosive or other contraband was in fact present, resulting in significant damage, we could become the subject of significant product liability claims. Furthermore, security inspection by technological means is always circumstance and application-specific. In addition, our security and inspection systems are not designed to work under all circumstances. We test the reliability of our security and inspection systems during both their development and manufacturing phases. We also perform such tests if we are requested to perform installation, warranty or post-warranty servicing. However, our security inspection systems are advanced mechanical and electronic devices and therefore can malfunction. We also offer turnkey security screening services under which we perform certain of the security screening tasks that have historically been performed by our customers. Such tasks include: design and layout of the security checkpoint where the inspection equipment is located; selection of the security equipment to be used at the checkpoint; selection, training and management of the personnel operating the checkpoint; operation of the security screening equipment itself; interpretation of the images and other signals produced by the security screening equipment; maintenance and security of the checkpoint as well as other related services. Such projects expose us to certain professional liability risks that are inherent in performing security inspection services (in live checkpoint environments and over an extended period of time) for the purpose of assisting our customers in the 20 Table of Contents detection of contraband items, including items that could be used in performing terrorist acts or other crimes. Although we utilize operational and other procedures, many of which are designed to our customers’ specifications and requirements, intended to limit the risk of failure, if a contraband item passes through the checkpoint and is used to perform a terrorist act or other crime, we could become the subject of significant professional liability claims. In addition, there are also many other factors beyond our control that could lead to liability claims should an act of terrorism occur. The September 11, 2001 and 1993 World Trade Center bombing attacks, and the potential for future attacks, have caused commercial insurance for such threats to become extremely difficult to obtain. It is very likely that, should we be found liable following a major act of terrorism, the insurance we currently have in place would not fully cover the claims for damages. Our patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems could give rise to product liability claims that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The development, manufacturing and sale of medical devices expose us to significant risk of product liability claims and, sometimes, product failure claims. We face an inherent business risk of financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our medical devices results in personal injury or death. Substantial product liability litigation currently exists within the medical device industry. Some of our patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems businesses are, from time to time, subject to product liability claims and/or product recalls. Future product liability claims may exceed the limits of our insurance coverages or such insurance may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Consequently, a product liability claim or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities, or in excess of insured liabilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If we are unable to sustain high quality processes for the manufacture and delivery of goods and services, our reputation could be harmed, our competitive advantage could erode and we could incur significant costs. Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due in part to the serious consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical both to the marketing success of our goods and services and to the satisfaction of both regulatory and contractual requirements under which we sell many of our products. If we fail to meet these standards or other standards required in our industries, we could lose customers and market share, our revenue could decline and we could face significant costs and other liabilities. The loss of certain of our customers could have a negative effect on our reputation. We sell many of our products to prominent, well-respected institutions, including agencies and departments of the U.S. Government, state and local governments, foreign governments, renowned hospitals and hospital networks, and large military-defense and space-industry contractors. Many of these larger customers spend considerable resources testing and evaluating our products and our design and manufacturing processes and services. Some of our smaller customers know this and rely on this as indication of the high-quality and reliability of our products and services. As a result, part of our reputation and success depends on our ability to continue to sell to larger institutions that are known for demanding high standards of excellence. The loss or termination of a contract by such an institution, even if for reasons unrelated to the quality of our products or services, could therefore have a more wide-spread and potentially material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues are dependent on orders of security and inspection systems and patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems, which may have lengthy and unpredictable sales cycles. Sales of security and inspection systems often depend upon the decision of governmental agencies to upgrade or expand existing airports, border crossing inspection sites, seaport inspection sites and other security installations. Sales outside of the United States of our patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia 21 Table of Contents systems depend in significant part on the decision of governmental agencies to build new medical facilities or to expand or update existing medical facilities. Accordingly, a significant portion of our sales of security and inspection systems and our patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems is often subject to delays associated with the lengthy approval processes that typically accompany such capital expenditures. During these approval periods, we expend significant financial and management resources in anticipation of future orders that may not occur. If we fail to receive an order after expending such resources, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current economic conditions, including the slow pace of recovery from recession in the United States and other parts of the world, as well as further disruptions in the financial markets could result in substantial declines in our revenues, earnings, cash flows and financial condition. The worldwide economic slowdown has and could continue to adversely affect our businesses and our profitability. If economic growth continues to remain slow, many customers may continue to delay purchases or reduce purchase quantities. This could result in the continued reduction in sales of certain of our products, slower adoption of both new technologies and upgrades to existing technologies and could also result in increased price competition. Continued market disruptions and broader economic downturns also increase our exposure to losses from bad debts. Among other affects we have seen during the slowdown, some of our customers, such as hospitals and healthcare systems in the United States, who rely on the credit or equity markets for access to capital, have and may continue to delay purchases of our products and services until the credit or equity markets recover. If economic or other factors cause financial institutions to fail, we could lose current or potential customers. During this period of uncertainty, we anticipate lower sales of patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems products than we have historically experienced, resulting in a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects. We cannot predict when the world’s financial markets will recover and therefore when this period of delayed and diminished purchasing will end. A prolonged delay could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the current turmoil in the financial markets continues, the variable interest rates payable under our credit facilities could be adversely affected or it could be more difficult to obtain or renew such facilities in the future. Any or all of these factors, as well as other consequences of the current economic conditions which cannot currently be anticipated, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. If we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products could become obsolete and our operating results would suffer. We sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards and customer needs. Without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products could become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: • accurately anticipate customer needs; • innovate and develop new technologies and applications; • successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; • price our products competitively and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time; and • differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings. Some of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. We therefore must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers’ products. In developing any new product, we may be required to make a substantial investment 22 Table of Contents before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. If we fail to accurately foresee our customers’ needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenues. Interruptions in our ability to purchase raw materials and subcomponents may adversely affect our profitability. We purchase raw materials and certain subcomponents from third parties. Standard purchase order terms are as long as one year at fixed costs, but we do not have guaranteed long-term supply arrangements with our suppliers. In addition, for certain raw materials and subcomponents that we use there are a limited number of potential suppliers that we have qualified or that we are currently able to qualify. Consequently, some of the key raw materials and subcomponents that we use are currently available to us only from a single vendor. The reliance on a single qualified vendor could result delays in delivering products or increases in the cost of manufacturing the affected products. Any material interruption in our ability to purchase necessary raw materials or subcomponents could adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and therefore could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully implement our acquisitions strategy, integrate acquired businesses into our existing business or make acquired businesses profitable. One of our strategies is to supplement our internal growth by acquiring businesses and technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines. This growth has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management, working capital and financial resources. We may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions for many reasons, including: • competition among buyers; • the need for regulatory approvals, including antitrust approvals; and • the high valuations of businesses. Some of the businesses we may seek to acquire may be marginally profitable or unprofitable. For these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we must improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. We may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations. To finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, through either public or private financings. We may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on unfavorable terms. Our acquisition and alliance activities could disrupt our ongoing business. We intend to continue to make investments in companies, products and technologies, either through acquisitions, investments or alliances. Acquisition and alliance activities often involve risks, including: • difficulty in assimilating the acquired operations and employees and realizing synergies expected to result from the acquisition; • difficulty in managing product co-development activities with our alliance partners; • difficulty in retaining the key employees of the acquired operation; • disruption of our ongoing business; • inability to successfully integrate the acquired technologies and operations into our businesses and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; and • lacking the experience necessary to enter into new product or technology markets successfully. 23 Table of Contents Integrating acquired businesses has been and will continue to be complex, time consuming and expensive, and can negatively impact the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The use of debt to fund acquisitions or for other related purposes increases our interest expense and leverage. If we issue equity securities as consideration in an acquisition, current shareholders’ percentage ownership and earnings per share may be diluted. As a result of these and other risks, we cannot be certain that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect the conduct, operating results or financial condition of our business. Acquisition and alliance activities by our competitors could disrupt our ongoing business. From time to time, our competitors acquire or enter into exclusive arrangements with companies with whom we do business or may do business in the future. Reductions in the number of partners with whom we may do business in a particular context may reduce our ability to enter into critical alliances on attractive terms or at all, and the termination of an existing alliance by a business partner may disrupt our operations. Our ability to successfully adapt to ongoing organizational changes could impact our business results. We have executed a number of significant business and organizational changes to rationalize our overall cost structure. These changes have included and may continue to include the implementation of cost-cutting measures and the consolidation of facilities. We expect these types of changes may continue from time to time in the future as we uncover additional opportunities to streamline our operations. Successfully managing these changes is critical to our productivity improvement and business success. If we are unable to successfully manage these changes, while continuing to invest in business growth, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales. In fiscal 2008, revenues from shipments made to customers outside of the United States accounted for approximately 47% of our revenues, 44% in fiscal 2009 and 43% in fiscal 2010. Of the revenues generated during fiscal 2010 from shipments made to customers outside of the United States, 29% represented sales made by subsidiaries based in the United States to foreign customers, and the balance represented sales generated by foreign subsidiaries. Since we sell certain of our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenues from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. In addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, and therefore employees, suppliers, real property, capital equipment, cash and other assets are located outside the United States. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets; • longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • differing legal and court systems; • differing tax laws and changes in those laws; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • difficulty in managing distributors and sales agents and their compliance with applicable laws; • differing labor laws and changes in those laws; 24 Table of Contents • differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection; and • differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. Our competitors may seek to challenge the intellectual property rights on which our products are based. As we introduce any new and potentially promising product, companies possessing competing technologies may be motivated to assert infringement claims in order to delay or diminish potential sales and challenge our right to market such product. In addition, we may find it necessary to initiate litigation in order to protect our patent or other intellectual property rights. Under either circumstance, we may incur significant expenses. In addition, claims of third parties against us could result in awards of substantial damages or court orders that could effectively prevent us from making, using or selling our products in the United States or abroad. Our ongoing success is dependent upon the continued availability of certain key employees. We are dependent in our operations on the continued availability of the services of our employees, many of whom are individually key to our current and future success, and the availability of new employees to implement our growth plans. In particular, we are dependent upon the services of Deepak Chopra, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer. The market for skilled employees is highly competitive, especially for employees in technical fields. While our compensation programs are intended to attract and retain the employees required for it to be successful, ultimately, we may not be able to retain the services of all of our key employees or a sufficient number to execute on our plans. In addition, we may not be able to continue to attract new employees as required. Substantial government regulation in the United States and abroad may restrict our ability to sell our patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems. The FDA and comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries extensively and rigorously regulate our patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems, including related development activities and manufacturing processes. In the United States, the FDA regulates the introduction of medical devices as well as the manufacturing, labeling and record-keeping procedures for such products. We are required to: • obtain clearance before we can market and sell medical devices; • satisfy content requirements applicable to our labeling, sales and promotional materials; • comply with manufacturing and reporting requirements; and • undergo rigorous inspections. Our future products may not obtain FDA clearance on a timely basis, or at all. Our patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems must also comply with the laws and regulations of foreign countries in which we develop, manufacture and market such products. In general, the extent and complexity of medical device regulation is increasing worldwide. This trend is likely to continue and the cost and time required to obtain marketing clearance in any given country may increase as a result. Our products may not obtain any necessary foreign clearances on a timely basis, or at all. Once any of our patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems is cleared for sale, regulatory authorities may still limit the use of such product, prevent its sale or manufacture or require a recall or withdrawal of such product from the marketplace. Following initial clearance from regulatory authorities, we continue to be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. Government authorities can withdraw marketing 25 Table of Contents clearance due to our failure to comply with regulatory standards or due to the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial clearance. Ongoing regulatory requirements are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: • annual inspections to retain a CE mark for sale of products in the European Union; • product manufacturing; • supplier substitution; • product changes; • process modifications; • medical device reporting; and • product sales and distribution. Broad-based legislation addressing the affordability and availability medical services in the United States may reduce the amount of funding available to hospitals for purchases of patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems. The U.S. Congress has recently enacted new healthcare legislation, including the Children’s Health Insurance Reauthorization Act, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and the Affordable Care Act. The effects of this legislation are likely to be far-reaching as they require extensive revision to the current health insurance system in the United States. This legislation will significantly affect the ways in which doctors, hospitals, healthcare systems and health insurance companies are compensated for the services they provide. However, it is not clear at this time whether and to what extent these changes may impact the ability of hospitals and hospital networks to purchase the patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems that we sell or if it will alter market-based incentives that hospitals and hospital networks currently face to continually improve, upgrade and expand their use of such equipment. While this legislation could adversely affect us, at this time we cannot predict the extent of any impact on our business or results of operations. We are subject to various environmental regulations which may impose liability on us whether or not we knew of or caused the release of hazardous substances on or in our facilities. We are subject to various foreign and U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations relating to the use, storage, handling and disposal of certain hazardous substances and wastes used or generated in the manufacturing and assembly of our products. Under such laws, we may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances or wastes that have been or are being disposed of offsite as wastes or that have been or are being released on or in our facilities. Such laws may impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of such hazardous substances or wastes. Any failure by us to comply with present or future regulations could subject us to the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of manufacturing processes, or cessation of operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to these controls. As directed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include in their annual reports an assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a public company’s financial statements must attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. We evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls. 26 Table of Contents We expect to continue to expend significant resources in complying with the documentation and testing procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, there will remain an ongoing risk that we will not comply with all of its requirements. If our independent registered public accounting firm differs from us in its interpretation of the requirements imposed on us by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if it is not satisfied with our internal controls over financial reporting or with the level at which such controls are documented, operated or reviewed, we may be delayed in filing reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, our independent registered public accounting firm may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or it may issue an adverse report. In addition, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to rely on our internal controls over financial reporting in connection with its audit of our financial statements and if it is unable to devise alternative procedures in order to satisfy itself as to the material accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures, it is possible that we could receive a qualified or adverse audit opinion in connection with those financial statements. Accordingly, in the future we may not receive a favorable report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our internal controls over financial reporting and the operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or if we receive an adverse report from our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our internal controls over financial reporting, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and the market for our Common Stock could be adversely affected. A failure of a key information technology system, process or site could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business. We rely extensively on information technology systems to interact with our employees and our customers. These interactions include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping product to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, and other processes necessary to manage our business. If our systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, ranging from the failures of third-party services provider, to catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively compensate on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage operations which may adversely impact our results of operations and/or financial condition. We receive significant amounts of research and development funding for our security and inspection systems from government grants and contracts, but we may not continue to receive comparable levels of funding in the future. The U.S. government currently plays an important role in funding the development of certain of our security and inspection systems and sponsoring their deployment at airports, ports, military installations and border crossings. However, in the future, additional research and development funds from the government may not be available to us. If the government fails to continue to sponsor our technologies we may have to expend more resources on product development or cease development of certain technologies, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, any future grants to our competitors may improve their ability to develop and market competing products and cause our customers to delay purchase decisions, which could harm our ability to market our products. Our credit facility contains provisions that could restrict our ability to finance our future operations or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. Our credit facility contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: • dispose of assets; • incur certain additional indebtedness; 27 Table of Contents • repay certain indebtedness; • create liens on assets; • pay dividends on our Common Stock; • make certain investments, loans and advances; • repurchase or redeem capital stock; • make certain capital expenditures; • engage in acquisitions, mergers or consolidations; and • engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. These covenants could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, finance our operations, engage in strategic acquisitions or disposals or meet our capital needs or could otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, our credit facility also requires us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios. Our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or covenants could result in an event of default under our credit facility. A default, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of our indebtedness. In addition, our lenders could terminate their commitments to make further extensions of credit under our credit facility. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient funds to pay the accelerated indebtedness or that we will have the ability to refinance accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all. Changes in our tax rates could affect our future financial results. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In March 2010, significant reforms to the healthcare system were adopted as law in the United States. The law includes provisions that, among other things, reduce or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose increased taxes. Specifically, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of an excise tax on United States sales of most medical devices beginning in 2013. The excise tax will increase the Company’s operating expenses. While the new law could reduce medical procedure volumes, lower reimbursement for the Company’s products, and impact the demand for the Company’s products or the prices at which the Company sells its products, at this time we cannot predict the extent of any impact on our business or results of operations. Our Certificate of Incorporation and other agreements contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock in one or more series, to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imposed upon any wholly unissued shares of Preferred Stock, to fix the number of shares constituting any such series and to fix the designation of any such series, without further vote or action by shareholders. The terms of any series of Preferred Stock, which may include economic rights senior to our Common Stock and special voting rights, could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our Common Stock and thereby reduce the value of our Common Stock. We have no present plans to issue shares of Preferred Stock. The issuance of Preferred Stock, coupled with the concentration of ownership in the directors and executive officers, could discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of our company, including 28 Table of Contents transactions in which the holders of Common Stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices, otherwise dilute the rights of holders of Common Stock and may limit the ability of such shareholders to cause or approve transactions which they may deem to be in their best interests, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation limit the liability of our directors, which may limit the remedies we or our shareholders have available. Our Certificate of Incorporation provides that, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, the liability of our directors for monetary damages shall be eliminated to the fullest extent permissible under Delaware law, as that law exists currently and as it may be amended in the future. This is intended to eliminate the personal liability of a director for monetary damages in an action brought by us, or in our right for breach of a director’s duties to us or our shareholders and may limit the remedies available to us or our shareholders. Under Delaware law, this provision does not apply to eliminate or limit a director’s monetary liabilities for: (i) breaches of the director’s duty of loyalty to us or our shareholders; (ii) acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or knowing violations of law; (iii) the unlawful payment of dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law or (iv) transactions in which the director received an improper personal benefit. Additionally, under Delaware law, this provision does not limit a director’s liability for the violation of, or otherwise relieve us or our directors from complying with, federal or state securities laws, nor does it limit the availability of non-monetary remedies such as injunctive relief or rescission for a violation of federal or state securities laws. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 