Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Company’s Business The Company has experienced losses in the past. Due primarily to the overcapacity and intense competition in the Puerto Rico market during the late 1990’s and early 2000’s, the Company experienced significant financial losses and associated negative cash-flow during that time. Despite operating income for the Company in 2005, 2006 and 2007, the Company cannot assure that it will continue to be profitable and continue to generate positive cash flow. For example, the Company cannot assure that a new marine freight carrier will not commence operations in the Puerto Rico market. Most of its competitors have substantially greater financial resources, operate more equipment, or carry a larger volume of freight than the Company does. The Company’s operations are dependent on a limited fleet and special loading structures. The Company’s current operations depend on five vessels and triple deck loading ramps at its port facilities in Jacksonville and San Juan, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The operation of any marine vessel involves the risk of catastrophic events due to various Page 9 Table of Contents perils of sea. In addition, port facilities in Jacksonville, San Juan and Puerto Plata are vulnerable to the risk of hurricanes. In the event of either a total loss of or major damage to its vessels or ramps, the Company cannot assure that the Company could locate suitable replacements, or if available, that such replacements could be obtained on suitable terms. The Company also could be adversely affected if unexpected maintenance or repairs are required for either of the custom configured ramp systems the Company uses. Although its vessels are insured for loss, the Company does not maintain business interruption insurance and the Company’s vessel insurance might not be high enough to build replacement vessels. Accordingly, the Company cannot assure that the loss of, damage to or significant required repair to any of its vessels or port facilities in the future would not have a material adverse effect on its cash flow. A substantial part of the Company’s revenue is produced in a single market, which makes it susceptible to changes that could adversely affect its results. The vast majority of its revenue is attributable to freight moving either to or from Puerto Rico. Its reliance on the Puerto Rico market makes it susceptible to a downturn in the local economy, local economic and competitive factors, changes in government regulations and political changes that the Company cannot predict. Repeal or substantial amendment of the Jones Act could adversely affect its business. The Jones Act provides that all vessels operating between ports in the United States, including the noncontiguous areas of Puerto Rico, Alaska and Hawaii, must be built, owned, operated and crewed substantially by U.S. citizens. The Jones Act continues to be in effect and supported by the U.S. Congress and the current administration. However, the Company can not assure that the Jones Act will not be repealed or amended in the future. If the Jones Act were to be repealed or substantially amended and, as a consequence, competition were to increase in the Puerto Rico market, the Company’s business and cash flow could be adversely affected. Changes in Tax Laws or the Interpretation Thereof, Adverse Tax Audits and Other Tax Matters Related to the Company’s Tonnage Tax Election or Such Tax May Adversely Affect Future Results. The Company intends to elect to be taxed according to the tonnage tax instead of the federal corporate income tax on income from its qualifying shipping activities. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof, adverse tax audits, and other tax matters related to such tax election or such tax may adversely affect the Company’s future results. During the fourth quarter of 2007, a draft of a Technical Corrections Act proposed redefining the Puerto Rico trade to not qualify for application of the tonnage tax. The tax writing committee in Congress removed the tonnage tax repeal language from the Technical Corrections Act before its passage, but the Company cannot assure that there will not be future efforts to repeal all, or any portion of, the tonnage tax as it applies to the Company’s shipping activities. New Service to Puerto Rico and Dominican Republic In August 2007, the Company instituted a new sailing on a bi-weekly basis between and among Jacksonville, Florida, San Juan, Puerto Rico and Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic. The implementation of the new sailing required additional investment in new container equipment and the charter of an additional tug boat. To date the new sailing has not been accretive and has incurred losses. No assurance can be given that the new sailing will cease to incur losses. Page 10 Table of Contents Fuel Prices While the Company has a series of fuel surcharges in place that seek to adjust revenues with changes in fuel prices, such mechanisms do not act with precision in terms of timing and amount. When fuel prices increase dramatically, rapidly or consistently the surcharge mechanism may not immediately adjust revenues enough to offset the increase in cost to the Company. Additionally, in periods of consistent fuel price increases, the fuel surcharge mechanism may not fully capture the increase in costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Page 11 Table of Contents 