Item 1A. Risk Factors The failure of our existing or new restaurants to achieve expected results could have a negative impact on our revenues and financial results, including potential impairment of the long-lived assets of our restaurants, and could negatively impact our growth and stock price. We owned and operated 201 full service Bistro restaurants and 168 quick casual Pei Wei restaurants as of January 2, 2011, six of which opened within the last twelve months. The results achieved by these restaurants may not be indicative of longer term performance or the potential market acceptance of restaurants in other locations. There can be no assurance that any new restaurant that we open will have similar operating results to those of prior restaurants. Our new restaurants commonly take several months to reach planned operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants, including the training of new personnel, lack of market 7 Table of Contents awareness, inability to hire sufficient staff and other factors. The failure of our existing or new restaurants to perform as expected could have a significant negative impact. We are subject to a number of significant risks that might cause our actual results to vary materially from our historical results or future projections including: • lower customer traffic or average guest check, which negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income, operating margins and earnings per share, due to: • unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, higher unemployment rates, downturns in the housing market, lower disposable income due to general price inflation, lower consumer confidence, higher interest rates, and other events or factors that adversely affect consumer spending; • the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased competition generally; • lack of customer acceptance of new menu items or potential price increases necessary to cover higher input costs; • customers trading down to lower priced items and/or shifting to competitors with lower priced products; • changes in consumer preferences or declines in general consumer demand for Asian menu items; and • unsuccessful marketing programs. • expense fluctuations that are either wholly or partially beyond our control, such as: • costs for commodities; • material interruptions in our supply chain, such as a material interruption of ingredient supply due to the failure of third-party suppliers, or interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels; • labor costs such as increased healthcare costs and general market wage levels; • operating expenses, such as utilities and other expenses that are impacted by energy price fluctuations; • fair value fluctuations related to our cash-settled share-based compensation awards; • costs of opening, closing or relocating our restaurants; • litigation against the Company, particularly class action lawsuits; • information technology costs and other logistical resources necessary to maintain and support the global growth of our business; and • increased employee training costs due to turnover. If market conditions deteriorate or if operating results decline unexpectedly, we may be required to record impairment charges, which will negatively impact results of operations for the periods in which they are recorded. Due to the foregoing factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for a full fiscal year and these fluctuations may cause our operating results to be below expectations of public market analysts and investors, adversely impacting our stock price. Damage to our brands or reputation could negatively impact our business. Our success depends substantially on the value and relevance of our brands and our reputation for offering a high quality, memorable experience to our guests. We believe that we must protect and grow the value of our brands to continue to be successful in the future. Any incident that erodes consumer trust in or affinity for our brands could significantly reduce their value. If consumers perceive or experience a reduction in food quality, service or ambiance, or in any way believe we failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, our brand value could suffer which could have an adverse effect on our business. 8 Table of Contents Additionally, multi-unit food service businesses such as ours can be materially and adversely affected by widespread negative publicity of any type, particularly regarding food quality, illness or public health issues (such as epidemics or the prospect of a pandemic), safety, injury or other health concerns. We have taken steps to mitigate each of these risks. To minimize the risk of food-borne illness, we have implemented a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (“HACCP”) system for managing food safety and quality. Nevertheless, these risks cannot be completely eliminated and any outbreak of illness attributed to our restaurants or within the food service industry in general could cause a decline in our sales and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We believe that we have selected high-caliber, experienced partners for our business expansion into international markets and retail product licensing. However, if customers have negative perceptions or experiences with operational execution or food quality at international restaurants or with our line of premium frozen Asian-style entrées, our brand value could suffer which could have an adverse effect on our business. Development is critical to our long-term success. Critical to our long-term future success is our ability to successfully expand our operations. We have expanded from 7 restaurants at the end of 1996 to 369 restaurants as of January 2, 2011. We expect to open three to five new Bistro restaurants and six to eight new Pei Wei restaurants during fiscal 2011. Each of our restaurants is distinctively designed to accommodate particular characteristics of each location and to blend local or regional design themes with our principal trade dress and other common design elements. This presents each location with its own development and construction risks. Our ability to expand successfully will depend on a number of factors, including: • identification and availability of suitable locations; • competition for restaurant sites in new and existing markets; • timely negotiation of favorable lease arrangements; • management of the costs of construction and development of new restaurants, including materials and skilled labor; • securing required governmental construction, zoning or other approvals and permits; • management of modifications in design to the size and scope of the projects or other unforeseen engineering problems; • recruitment of qualified operating personnel, including managers, chefs, kitchen staff and wait staff; • timely development of commercial, residential, street or highway construction near our restaurants; • timely opening and continuing operations of other tenants at retail centers in which we are located; • weather conditions; and • general economic conditions, including those arising from the current economic down turn. The opening of additional restaurants in the future will depend primarily on the availability of high-quality commercial real estate projects of the type we typically target for new locations. We may not be able to open our planned new restaurants on a timely basis, if at all, and, if opened, these restaurants may not be operated profitably. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, delays in restaurant openings from time to time. Delays or failures in opening planned new restaurants could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are impacted by changes in general economic conditions and are dependent on sales concentrated in certain geographic areas. Generally weak economic conditions may continue throughout fiscal 2011. As a result, our customers may continue to remain apprehensive about the economy and maintain or further reduce their already lowered level of discretionary spending. This could impact the frequency with which our customers choose to dine out or the amount 9 Table of Contents they spend on meals while dining out, thereby decreasing our revenues and potentially negatively affecting our operating results. Our business is also influenced by the level of corporate travel and entertainment spending by businesses as a significant portion of our sales is generated by guests conducting business at our Bistro restaurants. We believe there is a risk that prolonged negative economic conditions might cause both individual consumers and businesses to make long-lasting changes to their discretionary spending behavior, including dining out less frequently on a more permanent basis, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, our financial performance is highly dependent on restaurants located in Texas, California, Florida and Arizona which contribute almost one-half of our total revenues. In recent years, these states have been more negatively impacted by the housing downturn, unemployment and the overall negative economic environment than other geographic areas. As a result, we have seen a more substantial decline in guest traffic at some of our restaurants in these locations, which has adversely affected the operations of our company as a whole. If we are unable to improve operating performance in these geographic areas, our financial results may continue to be adversely affected. Intense competition in the restaurant industry could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price-value relationships, ambiance, service and location, and many restaurants compete with us at each of our locations. Our Bistro competitors are primarily upscale casual dining restaurants, and our Pei Wei competitors are primarily other value-priced, quick casual concepts as well as locally owned and operated Asian restaurants. There are a number of well-established competitors with greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than ours, and many of our competitors are well-established in the markets where we have restaurants, or in which we intend to locate restaurants. Additionally, other companies may develop similar concepts and the ongoing popularity of Asian food may result in increased competition from non-Asian restaurants which offer Asian-inspired dishes. We also face growing competition as retail outlets improve the quality and convenience of their meal offerings potentially resulting in fewer occasions for consumers to dine out. Our revenue is also impacted by our business expansion into international markets. The growth of our international business depends upon our ability to find and attract quality partners. In addition, as our existing and potential international partners reach agreements with other restaurant companies, we are competing for our partners’ time and resources to dedicate to successfully expanding and executing our brand in their markets. There is also a risk that international markets will become saturated with restaurant offerings, thus creating greater competition for guests. Any inability to successfully compete with other restaurants in domestic or international markets may prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and/or profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may also need to modify or refine elements of our restaurant system to evolve our concepts in order to compete with popular new restaurant formats or concepts that may develop from time to time. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in implementing any such potential modifications or that these modifications will not reduce our profitability. Changes in government legislation may increase our labor costs and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. A substantial number of our restaurant personnel are hourly workers whose wage rates are affected by increases in the federal or state minimum wage rate. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions. As minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wages of our minimum wage employees but also the wages paid to employees at wage rates that are above minimum wage. Future legislation that increases minimum wage rates may increase our labor costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, potential changes in labor legislation, including all or parts of the Employee Free Choice Act (“EFCA”), could result in portions of our workforce being subjected to greater organized labor influence. The EFCA, also referred to as the “card check” bill, could impact the nature of labor relations in the United States, 10 Table of Contents specifically, how union elections and contract negotiations are conducted. The EFCA aims to make it easier for unions to form, and employers of unionized employees may face mandatory, binding arbitration of labor scheduling, costs and standards, which could increase the costs of doing business. As EFCA will most likely not be passed in its current form, another more immediate risk arises from the change in composition of the National Labor Relations Board (“NLRB”), which has the power to enact policy changes. Although we do not currently have any union employees, NLRB rulemaking and reversal of existing NLRB precedent, EFCA or similar labor legislation could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results by imposing requirements that could potentially increase costs, reduce flexibility and impact our ability to service our guests. Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are, from time to time, the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food borne illnesses, injuries or other food quality, health or operational concerns. We may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately determined to be liable. We are also subject to complaints or litigation from former or prospective employees alleging wage and hour issues, discrimination, or other concerns from time to time as well as from vendors, landlords, and other third-parties. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. We assess contingencies to determine the degree of probability and range of possible loss for potential accrual in our financial statements. An estimated loss contingency is accrued in our financial statements if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Because litigation is inherently unpredictable and unfavorable resolutions could occur, assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. We regularly review contingencies to determine the adequacy of our accruals and related disclosures. The amount of ultimate loss may differ from these estimates. Additionally, the costs and expense of defending ourselves against lawsuits or claims, regardless of merit, could have an adverse impact on our profitability and could cause variability in our results compared to expectations. We are subject to state “dram shop” laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. While we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, or at all. Adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products or new information or attitudes regarding diet and health could result in changes in regulations and consumer eating habits that could adversely affect our business. Multi-unit restaurant operators and food service operations have received more scrutiny from regulators and health organizations in recent years relating to the health effects of consuming certain products. Regulations and consumer eating habits may change as a result of new information or attitudes regarding diet and health. Although our menu provides a range of healthy options, an unfavorable report on our menu ingredients, the size of our portions or the consumption of our menu items could influence the demand for our offerings. These changes may include regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu items. Also, as part of the health care reform law enacted by Congress in March of 2010, there are new federal requirements for menu labeling. The success of our restaurant operations is dependent, in part, upon our ability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations and to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. If consumer health regulations or consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or delete certain menu items. We may experience higher costs associated with the implementation and oversight of such changes. To the extent we are unable to respond with appropriate changes to our menu offerings, it could materially affect customer demand and have an adverse impact on our business. 11 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with governmental regulations could harm our business and our reputation. We are subject to regulation by federal agencies and to licensing and regulation by state and local health, sanitation, building, zoning, safety, fire and other departments relating to the development and operation of restaurants. These regulations include matters relating to building construction, zoning requirements, employment, the preparation and sale of food and alcoholic beverages, integrity and security of data and the environment. Our facilities are licensed and subject to regulation under state and local fire, health and safety codes. The development and construction of additional restaurants will be subject to compliance with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. We may not be able to obtain necessary licenses or other approvals on a cost-effective and timely basis in order to construct and develop restaurants in the future. Various federal and state labor laws govern our operations and our relationship with our employees, including minimum wage, overtime, working conditions, fringe benefit and citizenship requirements. In particular, we are subject to the regulations of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, or BCIS. The United States Congress has recently been considering changes to Federal immigration laws and various states, including some where we have significant operations, are also in the process of considering or have already adopted new immigration laws. Some of these new laws may adversely affect our operations by increasing our obligations for compliance and oversight. Although we require all workers to provide us with the government-specified documentation evidencing their employment eligibility, some of our employees may, without our knowledge, be unauthorized workers. Unauthorized workers are subject to seizure and deportation and may subject us to fines, penalties or loss of our business license in certain jurisdictions. Any material disruption of our business, as a result of seizure of our workers, changes in immigration law, or significantly increased labor costs at our restaurants in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Approximately 13 to 15% percent of total Bistro revenues and 1 to 2% percent of total Pei Wei revenues are attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. We are required to comply with the alcohol licensing requirements of the federal government, states and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require applications to state authorities and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of the restaurants, including minimum age of guests and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. If we fail to comply with federal, state or local regulations, our licenses may be revoked and we may be forced to terminate the sale of alcoholic beverages at one or more of our restaurants. The federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. We are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and regulations relating to accommodating the needs of the disabled in connection with the construction of new facilities and with significant renovations of existing facilities, which increases the costs of our operations. We receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and employees. The use of this information by us is regulated at the federal and state levels. If our security and information systems are compromised or our business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as results of operations, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure we remain in compliance. The U.S. and other foreign governments have increased focus on environmental matters such as climate change, greenhouse gases and water conservation. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as yet unspecified array of environmental matters. These efforts could result in increased taxation or in future restrictions on or increases in costs associated with food and other restaurant supplies, transportation costs and utility costs, any of which could decrease our operating profits and/or necessitate future investments in our restaurant facilities and equipment to achieve compliance. Failure to comply with these and other regulations could negatively impact our business and our reputation. 12 Table of Contents Changes in food costs or availability could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Our profitability is dependent in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs and availability. Factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions and governmental regulation, may affect our food costs. Any disruption in the supply of commodities or specialty items due to quality, availability or other issues could also cause our food costs to fluctuate. To mitigate some of the risks associated with availability, other than for a portion of our commodities, such as produce which is purchased locally by each restaurant, we rely on Distribution Market Advantage, a cooperative of multiple food distributors located throughout the nation, as the primary distributor of our ingredients. We have a non-exclusive contract with Distribution Market Advantage on terms and conditions that we believe are consistent with those made available to similarly situated restaurant companies. Although we believe that alternative distribution sources are available, any increase in distribution prices or failure to perform by Distribution Market Advantage could cause our food costs to fluctuate. We also have exposure to fluctuating costs and potential short-term availability issues associated with our Asian-specific ingredients, primarily spices and sauces, which we source directly from Hong Kong, China, Taiwan and Thailand through a single importer and distributor. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs through our purchasing practices and menu price adjustments in the future, and failure to do so could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Our inability to retain key personnel could negatively impact our business. Our success will continue to be highly dependent on our key operating officers, key executive officers, and employees. We must continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel, including regional managers, general managers and executive chefs. The ability of these key personnel to maintain consistency in the quality of our product offerings and service and atmosphere of our restaurants is a critical factor in our success. The key executive officers serve to maintain a corporate vision for our Company, execute our business strategy, and maintain consistency in the operating standards of our restaurants. Any failure to attract, retain and motivate key personnel may harm our reputation and result in a loss of business. Our future success is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain certain key operating, executive and other employees. Robert Vivian, one of our co-chief executive officers, will retire at the end of fiscal 2011. While we are constantly focused on succession plans at all levels, when his employment terminates, the transition process may result in disruptions to our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and business. Federal, state and local tax rules can adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the U.S and international taxes. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the IRS or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken on our tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, companies in the restaurant industry are typically impacted by changes to tax law regarding tip credits. Tip credits are the amounts an employer is permitted to assume an employee receives in tips when the employer calculates the employee’s hourly wage for minimum wage compliance purposes. FICA tip credits resulting from tip credit reporting are also a significant factor when calculating the Company’s effective tax rate. Changes to the tip credit have recently been and continue to be proposed and implemented at both federal and state government levels. Future legislation that changes allowable tip credits may increase our effective tax rate and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Complying with new tax rules, laws or regulations could impact our financial condition and increases to federal or state statutory tax rates and other changes in tax laws, rules or regulations may increase our effective tax rate. Any increase in our effective tax rate could have a material impact on our financial results. 13 Table of Contents Fluctuating insurance requirements and costs could negatively impact our profitability and projections. The cost of workers’ compensation insurance, general liability insurance, health insurance, and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance fluctuates based on market conditions and availability as well as our historical trends. We self-insure a substantial portion of our workers’ compensation, general liability, and health insurance costs and unfavorable changes in trends could have a negative impact on our profitability. Additionally, health insurance costs in general have risen significantly over the past few years and are expected to continue to increase in 2011. We are reviewing the health care reform law enacted by Congress in March of 2010 to evaluate the potential impact of this new law on our business and to comply with various parts of the law as they take effect. The increases in costs, as well as legislation requirements for employers to provide specified levels of health insurance to all employees, could have a negative impact on our profitability if we are not able to offset the effect of such increases with plan modifications and cost control measures, or by continuing to improve our operating efficiencies. The seasonality of our business could result in fluctuations in our financial performance. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our sales volumes are generally higher in the winter months and lower in the summer months, which can cause fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter within a fiscal year. As a result, results of operations for any single quarter are not indicative of results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Additionally, quarterly fluctuations in our results can impact the amount of quarterly cash dividend payments, which are based on a fixed percentage of net income. We could be adversely impacted if our information technology and computer systems do not perform properly. We rely on computer systems and information technology to conduct our business, most importantly point-of-sale processing in our restaurants. Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of our systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively could cause delays in customer service and reduce efficiency in our operations. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Some of the statements in this Form 10-K and the documents we incorporate by reference constitute forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terms such as “may”, “will”, “should”, “expect”, “plan”, “intend”, “forecast”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “predict”, “potential”, “continue” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements contained in this document involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and situations that may cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these statements. Factors that might cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements may include the matters listed under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, including, but not limited to, failure of our existing or new restaurants to achieve predicted results, damage to our brands or reputation, our ability to successfully expand our operations, changes in general economic and political conditions that affect consumer spending and intense competition in the restaurant industry. Because we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements, undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements represent beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this annual report. Except as required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to release publicly the results of any revisions or updates to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of our financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents 