risk factors not now foreseeable but that then may be anticipated to impact the proposed activities of our company; the potential for growth or expansion; the potential for profit; the perceived public recognition of, or acceptance of, products, services or trades; name identification; and other relevant factors. Our officers and directors expect to meet personally with management and key personnel of the business opportunity as part of their investigation. To the extent possible, we intend to utilize written reports and investigation to evaluate the above factors. We will not acquire or merge with any company for which audited financial statements cannot be obtained within a reasonable period of time after closing of the proposed transaction. Our limited funds and the lack of full-time management, however, will likely make it impracticable to conduct a complete and exhaustive investigation and analysis of a target business before we commit our capital or other resources thereto. Management decisions, therefore, will likely be made without detailed feasibility studies, independent analysis, market surveys and the like which would be desirable if we had more funds available. We will be particularly dependent in making decisions upon information provided by the promoter, owner, sponsor or others associated with the business opportunity seeking our participation. We will not restrict our search to any specific kind of firm, but we may acquire a venture that is in its preliminary or development stage, which is already in operation, or in essentially any stage of its corporate life. It is impossible to predict at this time the status of any business in which we may become engaged, in that such business may need to seek additional capital, may desire to have its shares publicly traded, or may seek other perceived advantages which we may offer. However, we do not intend to obtain funds in one or more private placements to finance the operation of any acquired business opportunity until such time as we have successfully consummated such a merger or acquisition. It is anticipated that we will incur nominal expenses in the implementation of the business plan described herein. We have limited capital with which to pay these anticipated expenses. 3 The time and costs required to select and evaluate a target business (including conducting a due diligence review) and to structure and consummate the business combination (including negotiating relevant agreements and preparing requisite documents for filing pursuant to applicable securities laws and state “blue sky” and corporation laws) cannot presently be ascertained with any degree of certainty. Our officers and directors only devote a small portion of their time to the operations of our company, and, accordingly, consummation of a business combination may require a greater period of time than if they devoted their full time to our company’s affairs. However, our officers and directors will devote such time as they deem reasonably needed. In implementing a structure for a particular business acquisition, we may become a party to a merger, consolidation, reorganization, joint venture or licensing agreement with another corporation or entity. We may also acquire the stock or assets of an existing business. Upon the consummation of a transaction, it is probable that our present management and shareholders will no longer be in control of our company. In addition, our directors may, as part of the terms of the acquisition transaction, resign and be replaced by new directors without a vote of our current shareholders or may sell their stock in our company. Any and all such sales will only be made in compliance with the securities laws of the United States and any applicable state. It is anticipated that any securities issued in any such reorganization will be issued in reliance upon exemption from registration under applicable federal and state securities laws. In some circumstances, however, as a negotiated element of its transaction, we may agree to register all or a part of such securities immediately after the transaction is consummated or at specified times thereafter. If such registration occurs, of which there can be no assurance, it will be undertaken by the surviving entity after we have successfully consummated a merger or acquisition and we are no longer considered a “shell” company. Until such time as this occurs, we do not intend to register any additional securities. The issuance of substantial additional securities and their potential sale into any trading market that may develop in our securities may have a depressive effect on the value of our securities in the future, if such a market develops, of which there is no assurance. As a general rule, federal and state tax laws and regulations have a significant impact upon the structuring of business combinations. We will evaluate the possible tax consequences of any prospective business combination and will endeavor to structure a business combination so as to achieve the most favorable tax treatment for us, the target company and their respective stockholders. However, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or relevant state tax authorities will ultimately assent to our tax treatment of a particular consummated business combination. To the extent the IRS or any relevant state tax authorities ultimately prevail in recharacterizing the tax treatment of a business combination, there may be adverse tax consequences to us, the target business and their respective stockholders. Tax considerations as well as other relevant factors will be evaluated in determining the precise structure of a particular business combination, which could be effected through various forms of a merger, consolidation or stock or asset acquisition. While the actual terms of a transaction to which we may be a party cannot be predicted, it may be expected that the parties to the business transaction will find it desirable to avoid the creation of a taxable event and thereby structure the acquisition in a so-called “tax-free” reorganization under Sections 368(a) (1) or 351 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). In order to obtain tax-free treatment under the Code, it may be necessary for the owners of the target business to own 80% or more of the voting stock of the surviving entity. In such event, our shareholders would retain less than 20% of the issued and outstanding shares of the surviving entity, which would result in significant dilution in the equity of such shareholders. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the IRS or relevant state tax authorities will ultimately assent to our tax treatment of a particular consummated business combination. With respect to any merger or acquisition, negotiations with the target company’s management is expected to focus on the percentage of our company that the target company shareholders would acquire in exchange for all of their shareholdings in the target company. Depending upon, among other things, the target company's assets and liabilities, our shareholders will in all likelihood hold a substantially lesser percentage ownership interest in our company following any merger or acquisition. The percentage ownership may be subject to significant reduction in the event we acquire a target company with substantial assets. Any merger or acquisition effected by us can be expected to have a significant dilutive effect on the percentage of shares held by our then shareholders. 4 We will participate in a business opportunity only after the negotiation and execution of appropriate written agreements. Although the terms of such agreements cannot be predicted, generally such agreements will require some specific representations and warranties by all of the parties thereto, will specify certain events of default, will detail the terms of closing and the conditions which must be satisfied by each of the parties prior to and after such closing, will outline the manner of bearing costs, including costs associated with our attorneys and accountants, will set forth remedies on default and will include miscellaneous other terms. As stated hereinabove, we will not acquire or merge with any entity that cannot provide independent audited financial statements within a reasonable period of time after closing of the proposed transaction. We are subject to all of the reporting requirements included in the Exchange Act. Included in these requirements is the affirmative duty to file independent audited financial statements as part of our Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission upon consummation of a merger or acquisition, as well as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K. If such audited financial statements are not available at closing, or within time parameters necessary to insure our compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, or if the audited financial statements provided do not conform to the representations made by the candidate to be acquired in the closing documents, the closing documents will provide that the proposed transaction will be voidable, at the discretion of our present management. We do not intend to provide our security holders with any complete disclosure documents, including audited financial statements, concerning an acquisition or merger candidate and its business prior to the consummation of any acquisition or merger transaction. Our company will remain an insignificant participant among the firms that engage in the acquisition of business opportunities. There are many established venture capital and financial concerns that have significantly greater financial and personnel resources and technical expertise than we have. In view of our combined extremely limited financial resources and limited management availability, we will continue to be at a significant competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors. We have had in the past, and continue to have, discussions with potential merger or acquisition partners and while we do not have a definitive agreement in place with any potential partner to do so, we anticipate issuing shares of our common stock, and possibly preferred stock, as part of any merger or acquisition with a merger or acquisition partner. Employees We do not have any employees who provide services to our company. Our Chief Executive Officer serves in such capacity as an independent contractor. Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are a smaller reporting company, as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Act of 1934, and are not required to provide the information under this item. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We are a smaller reporting company, as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Act of 1934, and are not required to provide the information under this item. Item 