ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K that are not historical facts constitute forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are intended to be covered by the safe harbors created by that Act. Reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which they are made. Statements concerning expected financial performance, on-going business strategies and possible future action which the Company intends to pursue to achieve strategic objectives constitute forward-looking information. Implementation of these strategies and the achievement of such financial performance are each subject to numerous conditions, uncertainties and risk factors. Factors that could cause actual performance to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, without limitation, the following: 4 THE COMPANY DEPENDS ON THE BIOPHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY FOR MOST OF ITS REVENUE. The Company's revenues depend on the outsourcing trends and research and development expenditures of the biopharmaceutical industry. Economic factors and industry trends that affect companies in those industries affect the Company's business. Mergers and acquisitions in the biopharmaceutical industry could result in delay or cancellation of certain projects. THE COMPANY'S CONTRACTS MAY BE DELAYED, TERMINATED OR REDUCED IN SCOPE WITH LITTLE OR NO NOTICE. Many of the Company's contracts provide for services on a fixed price basis and may be terminated or reduced in scope with little or no notice. Cancellations may occur for a variety of reasons, including the failure of the product to satisfy safety requirements, unexpected results of the product or the client's decision to terminate the development of a product. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a large contract or the delay of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect the Company's results, although the Company's contracts entitle the Company to receive payments for work incurred in the event of a cancellation. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to realize the net service revenues included in backlog and verbal awards. The Company believes that its aggregate backlog and verbal awards are not necessarily meaningful indicators of future results. THE FIXED PRICE NATURE OF MANY OF THE COMPANY'S CONTRACTS COULD RESULT IN FINANCIAL LOSSES. Because many of the Company's contracts are structured as fixed price, the Company is at financial risk if it initially underbids the contract or overruns the initial cost estimates. Such under bidding or significant cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. IF THE COMPANY FAILS TO HIRE, RETAIN AND INTEGRATE QUALIFIED PERSONNEL, IT WILL BE DIFFICULT FOR THE COMPANY TO ACHIEVE ITS GOALS. The Company's success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts of the Company's senior management team and its ability to hire qualified personnel in the regions in which the Company operates. There is substantial competition within the industry for qualified personnel, and difficulty recruiting or retaining qualified personnel will impact the Company's ability to meet its financial and operational goals. THE CRO INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE. The CRO industry is comprised of a wide range of competitors, including small, niche providers as well as full-service global contract research organizations. The industry members compete based on a variety of factors, including reputation for quality performance, price, scope of service offerings and geographic presence. Additionally, the Company's customers have in-house capabilities to perform services that are provided by CROs. THE COMPANY MAY EXPAND THROUGH ACQUISITIONS. In the past, the Company has acquired companies and the Company continues to evaluate new acquisition opportunities. The Company's ability to grow successfully through acquisitions could be affected by expenses incurred in integrating an acquired company, losses of key employees from an acquired company, unforeseen risks in acquiring companies in certain geographies and dilution to existing shareholders. CHANGE IN GOVERNMENT REGULATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY. Government agencies regulate the drug development process. The Company works with biopharmaceutical companies in the drug development process. Changes in regulations that simplify the drug approval process or increases in regulatory requirements that lessen the research and development efforts of the Company's customers could negatively affect the Company. INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO NUMEROUS RISKS. The Company has international operations in many foreign countries, including South Africa, India and countries in Eastern Europe and Latin America. These operations are subject to risks inherent in operating in these countries, including government regulations, currency restrictions and other restraints, burdensome taxes and political instability. The Company's ability to deal with these issues could be affected by applicable U.S. laws and the need to protect our assets in those locations. THE COMPANIES FINANCIAL RESULTS ARE EXPOSED TO EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS. For the year ended December 31, 2005 approximately 42% of the Company's revenues were derived from operations outside of the United States of America. The Company's financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly impact the Company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows as well as its ability to finance large acquisitions outside of the United States of America. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 5 