Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Company’s Business Our cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to make required payments on our substantial indebtedness and future indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $85.4 million of outstanding short-term debt. Our available liquidity plus the additional cash expected to be generated by operations will not be sufficient, without additional financing, to pay the $82.5 million in 9.25% Senior Secured Notes (the “Notes”) which become due in November 2011. Although we expect to refinance these Notes prior to November 2011, our failure to refinance these obligations that have not matured prior to March 31, 2011, has resulted in the inclusion of an explanatory going concern paragraph in the audit report of our Independent Registered Certified Public Accounting Firm. Because we have substantial debt, we require significant amounts of cash to fund our debt service obligations. Our ability to generate cash to meet scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to our debt depends on our financial and operating performance which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the following financial and business factors, some of which may be beyond our control: • operating difficulties; • increased operating costs; • increased fuel costs; • general economic conditions; • decreased demand for our services; • market cyclicality; • tariff rates; • prices for our services; • the actions of competitors; • regulatory developments; and • delays in implementing strategic projects. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain additional equity capital, restructure or refinance our indebtedness. In the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service obligations, we cannot be sure as to the timing of such dispositions or the proceeds that we would realize from those dispositions. The value realized from such dispositions will depend on market conditions and the availability of buyers, and, consequently, any such disposition may not, among other things, result in sufficient cash proceeds to repay our indebtedness. Also, our existing debt agreements Page 11 Table of Contents (and any new financing documents may) contain covenants that may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Further, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, given the uncertainty of prevailing market conditions from time to time. Such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In such an event, we may be forced to file for protection under federal bankruptcy laws. If we are able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, we anticipate that the economic terms on which such indebtedness is restructured, refinanced or obtained will not be as favorable to us as our current indebtedness. We may be unable to refinance our 9.25% Senior Secured Notes. Our Notes mature on November 15, 2011. As of March 31, 2011, the aggregate principal outstanding on our Notes is $82.5 million. We will not generate sufficient funds from our operations to pay off the aggregate principal outstanding on our Notes when due in November 2011. Although we expect to refinance these Notes prior to November 2011, our failure to refinance these obligations that have not matured prior to March 31, 2011, has resulted in the inclusion of an explanatory going concern paragraph in the audit report of our Independent Registered Certified Public Accounting Firm. If we are unable to refinance these notes on acceptable terms, we might be forced (i) to dispose of property or equipment, which might result in losses (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms, and/or (iii) file for protection under bankruptcy laws. Each could reduce the cash flow available for operations and, therefore, have a negative effect on our results of operations. Covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. Our debt agreements contain customary covenants and financial tests, including compliance with certain financial ratios under certain circumstances. We expect that any new financing would contain similar or more restrictive covenants and financial tests. These covenants could limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. Moreover, if we breach any of the covenants and did not cure the breach within the applicable cure period, we could be forced to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our Notes on terms that are as favorable. Consequently, the covenants in our future debt agreements may be even more restrictive than our current covenants. As a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock. It is likely that any refinancing of its existing indebtedness as described above will contain similar or more restrictive covenants. There is a criminal investigation into pricing practices in the trade in which we operate and related class- action suits. As more fully described in Item 3. — Legal Proceedings, on April 17, 2008, we received a subpoena from the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) seeking documents and information relating to a criminal grand jury investigation of alleged anti-competitive conduct by Puerto Rico ocean carriers. To date, neither we nor any of our employees has been charged with any wrongdoing in this investigation and we will continue to cooperate with government officials. Following publicity about the DOJ investigation, beginning on April 22, 2008, shippers in the Puerto Rico trade lane, and in one case indirect consumer purchasers within Puerto Rico, have filed at least 40 purported class actions against domestic ocean carriers, including Horizon Lines, Sea Star Lines, Crowley and us. Additionally, on October 9, 2009, we received a Request for Information and Production of Documents from the Puerto Rico Office of Monopolistic Affairs. The request relates to an investigation into possible price fixing and unfair competition in the Page 12 Table of Contents Puerto Rico domestic ocean shipping business. We are not able to predict the ultimate outcome or cost of the DOJ investigation, the civil class actions, or the Puerto Rico Office of Monopolistic Affairs investigation. It is possible that these proceedings may lead to a criminal conviction or settlement providing for the payment of substantial fines by us. It is also possible that the outcome of these proceedings could damage our reputation and might impair our ability to conduct our business. Any conviction or potential settlement could have a substantial and material effect on our financial position, liquidity and cash flow. Settlements by our competitors that result in shipping discounts could also have a substantial and material effect on pricing in the market that will adversely effect our business. Compliance With Safety and Environmental Protection and Other Governmental Requirements May Adversely Affect Our Operations. The shipping industry in general, and our business and the operation of our vessels and terminals in particular, are affected by extensive and changing safety, environmental protection and other international, national, state and local governmental laws and regulations. For example, our vessels generally must be maintained “in class” and are subject to periodic inspections by the American Bureau of Shipping or similar classification societies, and must be periodically inspected by, or on behalf of, the U.S. Coast Guard. Changes in enforcement policies for existing requirements and additional laws and regulations adopted in the future could limit our ability to do business or further increase the cost of our doing business. We believe our vessels are maintained in good condition in compliance with present regulatory requirements, are operated in compliance in all material respects with applicable safety/environmental laws and regulations and are insured against the usual risks for such amounts as our management deems appropriate. Our vessels’ operating certificates and licenses are renewed periodically during the required annual surveys of the vessels. However, there can be no assurance that such certificates and licenses will be renewed. In the future, we may have to alter existing equipment, add new equipment to, or change operating procedures for, our vessels to comply with changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards to meet our customers’ changing needs. If any such costs are material, they could adversely affect our financial condition. Volatility in fuel prices could adversely affect our profitability. While we have a series of fuel surcharges in place that seek to adjust revenues with changes in fuel prices, such mechanisms do not act with precision in terms of timing and amount. When fuel prices increase dramatically, rapidly or consistently, the surcharge mechanism may not immediately adjust revenues enough to offset the increase in cost to us. Additionally, in periods of consistent fuel price increases, the fuel surcharge mechanism may not fully capture the increase in costs. The fuel surcharge is also an area of competition among carriers in the trade and market forces may prohibit us from generating enough revenue from the fuel surcharges to offset any increase in costs, which may have a negative affect on our profitability. We have no control over economic factors that could adversely affect our business. We have no control over economic factors such as fuel prices, fuel tax, interest rate fluctuations, recessions or customers’ business cycles. Significant increases in fuel or other operating costs and interest rates, to the extent not offset by increases in freight rates or fuel surcharges, would adversely affect our operating results. Economic uncertainty caused by periodic economic recessions in the United States and other countries, have a material adverse effect upon our operating results when such economic downturns occur. If the resale value of our revenue equipment were to decline, we could receive less upon the disposition of our equipment or find it necessary to retain our equipment longer, with a resulting increase in our operating expenses. The marine and trucking industries are cyclical with corresponding changes in Page 13 Table of Contents revenue and profits. Changes in economic and trade growth as well as changes in the supply and demand of vessel and trucking capacity can impact both rates and resale values. The amount and timing of new vessel deliveries to competing carriers in the Puerto Rico market and rate reductions from increased capacity, excess capacity or slow market growth could result in rate instability that could have a material adverse effect upon us. Intense maritime competition has led to past financial losses. We suffered volume decreases in the fourth quarter of 2010. Due primarily to the overcapacity and intense competition in the Puerto Rico market during the late 1990’s and early 2000’s, we experienced significant financial losses and negative cash flow. Although we have had positive operating income since 2005, we cannot assure that we will continue to generate operating income and positive cash flow. We cannot assure that a new marine freight carrier will not commence operations in the Puerto Rico market or that an existing competitor will not increase capacity or lower prices in the Puerto Rico market. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources, operate more equipment, or carry a larger volume of freight than we do. Volume decreases in the fourth quarter 2010 may continue in the future and have a material adverse effect on the Company. Intense competition in our industry could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The trucking industry is highly competitive and fragmented and the Puerto Rico freight market is also highly competitive. We currently compete with other truckload carriers that provide domestic dry van service, private fleets operated by existing and potential customers, and marine carriers that provide ocean service between the continental U.S. and Puerto Rico. Competition for the freight we transport is based primarily on freight rates, and, to a lesser degree, on service and efficiency. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources, operate more equipment, or carry a larger volume of freight than we do. Our operations are dependent on a limited fleet and special loading structures. Our current liner operations depend on a limited number of vessels and triple deck loading ramps at its port facilities in Jacksonville and San Juan, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on us. The operation of any marine vessel involves the risk of catastrophic events due to various perils at sea. In the event of either a total loss of or major damage to its vessels or ramps, we cannot assure that we could locate suitable replacements, or if available, that such replacements could be obtained on suitable terms. We also could be adversely affected if unexpected maintenance or repairs are required for either of the custom configured ramp systems that we use. Although our vessels are insured for loss, we do not maintain business interruption insurance and our vessel insurance might not be high enough to build replacement vessels. Accordingly, we cannot assure that the loss of, damage to or required repair to any of our vessels or port facilities in the future would not have a material adverse effect on our cash flow. A substantial part of our revenue is produced in a single market, which makes it susceptible to changes that could adversely affect our results and despite increased volume overall we lost market share in that market throughout 2010. The vast majority of our revenue is attributable to freight moving either to or from Puerto Rico. In 2010, we experienced a consistent loss of market share in the Puerto Rico market, however, we made up for this loss by carrying more Dominican Republic freight. Our reliance on the Puerto Rico market makes us susceptible to a downturn in the local economy, local economic and competitive factors, changes in government regulations and political changes that we cannot predict. Our operation is highly leveraged and a downturn in freight volume in the Puerto Rico trade lane would have a material adverse effect on our cash flow. Additionally, at December 31, 2010, more than 10% of our trade accounts receivable was dependent upon funding from the Puerto Rico government. Page 14 Table of Contents Repeal or substantial amendment of the Jones Act could adversely affect its business. The Jones Act provides that all vessels operating between ports in the United States, including the noncontiguous areas of Puerto Rico, Alaska and Hawaii, must be built, owned, operated and crewed substantially by U.S. citizens. We cannot assure that the Jones Act will not be repealed or amended in the future. If the Jones Act was to be repealed or substantially amended and, as a consequence, competition was to increase in the Puerto Rico market, our business and cash flow could be adversely affected. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof, adverse tax audits and other tax matters related to our tonnage tax election or such tax may adversely affect future results. We have elected to be taxed according to the tonnage tax instead of the federal corporate income tax on income from our qualifying shipping activities since the 2007 federal tax year. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof, adverse tax audits, and other tax matters related to such tax election or such tax may adversely affect our future results. We have been notified that the IRS will audit our 2009 tax year. We are susceptible to severe weather and natural disasters. Our operations are vulnerable to disruption as a result of weather and natural disasters such as bad weather at sea as well as hurricanes and earthquakes. Such events will interfere with our ability to provide the on-time scheduled service our customers demand resulting in increased expenses and potential loss of business associated with such events. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters can result in interference with our terminal operations, and may cause significant damage to our vessels and ramps, loss or damage to containers, cargo and other equipment and loss of life or physical injury to our employees. Terminals on the east coast of the continental U.S. and in the Caribbean are particularly susceptible to hurricanes. Any damage caused by natural disasters may not be fully covered by insurance. Restrictions on foreign ownership of our vessels could prevent us from conducting operations in the United States domestic trade. In order to maintain our eligibility to own and operate vessels in compliance with the Jones Act, 75% of our outstanding capital stock and voting power is required to be held by U.S. citizens. Our Certificate of Incorporation contains provisions limiting non-citizenship ownership of our capital stock and requiring non-citizens to divest the shares of capital stock that they own in excess of these limits. However, we could lose our ability to conduct operations in the U.S. domestic trade if such provisions prove unsuccessful in maintaining the required level of citizen ownership, which would require us to shut down all but a very small portion of our current business. Loss of our key management personnel could adversely affect our business. Our future success will depend, in significant part, upon the services of our Chief Executive Officer, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, our Chief Financial Officer and our other officers. The loss of the services of any of these executive officers could adversely affect our future operating results because of such officers’ experience and knowledge of our business and customer relationships. We do not maintain key person insurance on any of our executive officers. Page 15 Table of Contents We are subject to, and may in the future be subject to legal disputes that could have a material adverse effect on us. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for legal disputes from time to time relating to labor and employment matters, personal injury and property damage, environmental matters and other matters, as discussed in the other risk factors disclosed in this Form 10-K. In addition, as a common carrier, our tariffs, rates, rules and practices in dealing with our customers are governed by extensive and complex foreign, federal, state and local regulations which are the subject of administrative and/or judicial proceedings from time to time. These proceedings, individually or collectively, could harm our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business. Additionally, these proceedings, individually or collectively, could involve significant expenditures by us or result in significant changes to our tariffs, rates, rules and practices in dealing with our customers that could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 