RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Financial Services Industry Because we are an integrated financial services company conducting business on a global basis, our revenues and earnings are affected by the volatility and strength of the economic, business and capital markets environments specific to the geographic regions in which we conduct business. The ongoing turbulence and volatility of such factors have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect the profitability of our insurance, banking and asset management business. Factors such as interest rates, securities prices, credit (including liquidity) spreads, exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, real estate and private equity valuations, government spending, inflation, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and terrorism all impact the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of business we conduct in a specific geographic region. For example, in an economic downturn, such as the one currently taking place, characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, higher corporate and private debt defaults, lower business investment and consumer spending, the demand for banking and insurance products is adversely affected and our reserves and provisions are likely to increase, resulting in lower earnings. Securities prices, real estate valuations and private equity valuations may be adversely impacted, and any such losses would be realized through profit and loss and shareholders equity. Some insurance products contain minimum return or accumulation guarantees. If returns do no meet or exceed the guarantee levels we may need to set up additional reserves to fund these future guaranteed benefits. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Similarly, a downturn in the equity markets, such as the one currently taking place, causes a reduction in commission income we earn from managing portfolios for third parties, income generated from our own proprietary portfolios, asset-based fee income on certain insurance products, and our capital base. We also offer a number of insurance and financial products that expose us to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates, securities prices, corporate and private default rates, the value of real estate assets, exchange rates and credit spreads. For more details on the impact of interest rates and exchange rate fluctuations on our operations, see “Item 5. Operating and financial review and prospects – Factors affecting results of operations”. In case one or more of the factors mentioned above adversely affects the profitability of our business this might also result, among others, in the following: - the unlocking of deferred acquisition costs impacting earnings; and/or - reserve inadequacies which could ultimately be realized through profit and loss and shareholders equity; and/or - the write down of tax assets impacting net results; and or - impairment expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, impacting net results. Management believes that if ongoing market volatility adversely impacts the performance of the reporting units Retail Banking — Central Europe and Insurance Americas — United States, compared with what was assumed in the year-end 2008 goodwill impairment test, the book value (including goodwill) of these reporting units may exceed the related fair values, which would result in impairments. See Note 9 of Note 2.1 to the consolidated financial statements. Shareholders’ equity and net result of ING in 2008 were significantly impacted by the turmoil and the extreme volatility in the worldwide financial markets. The financial markets and worldwide economies have deteriorated further in the first months of 2009 in several areas, especially the equity markets. Current levels continuing or a further negative development in financial markets and/or economies in 2009 may have a material adverse impact on shareholders’ equity and net result in future periods, including as a result of the potential consequences listed above. See “Subsequent Events” of Note 2.1 to the consolidated financial statements. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may impact our ability to access liquidity and capital, as well as the cost of credit and capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than eighteen months. In the second half of 2008, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, market developments have resulted in restrictions on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. 9 Table of Contents We need liquidity in our day-to-day business activities to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock; maintain our securities lending activities; and replace certain maturing liabilities. The principal sources of our liquidity are deposit funds, insurance premiums, annuity considerations, cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and stockholders’ equity. In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, there is a risk that external funding sources might not be available, or available at unfavorable terms. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to raise additional capital to support business growth, or to counter-balance the consequences of losses or increased regulatory capital requirements. This could force us to delay raising capital, reduce or postpone payment of dividends on our shares or interest payments on other securities, issue capital of different types or under different terms than we would otherwise, or incur a higher cost of capital than in a more stable market environment. This would have the potential to decrease both our profitability and our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and regulatory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. In the course of 2008, governments around the world, including the Dutch government, have implemented measures providing assistance to financial institutions, in certain cases requiring (indirect) influence on or changes to governance and remuneration practices. In certain cases governments have even nationalised companies or parts thereof. The measures adopted in the Netherlands consist in both liquidity provision and capital reinforcement, and a Dutch Capital Guarantee Scheme. The liquidity and capital reinforcement measures apply for a period of one year as of October 10, 2008, while the Credit Guarantee Scheme of the Netherlands is scheduled to run through December 31, 2009 (see Item 4. “Recent Developments”). So far we have been able to benefit from these measures. Going forward, the Dutch authorities will look at each application individually. Potential future transactions with the Dutch government or any other government or actions by such government regarding ING could adversely impact the position or rights of shareholders, bondholders, customers, creditors, our results, operations, solvency, liquidity and governance. Because our life and non-life insurance and reinsurance businesses are subject to losses from unforeseeable and/or catastrophic events, which are inherently unpredictable, our actual claims amount may exceed our established reserves or we may experience an abrupt interruption of activities, each of which could result in lower net results and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In our life and non-life insurance and reinsurance businesses, we are subject to losses from natural and man-made catastrophic events. Such events include, without limitation, weather and other natural catastrophes such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and epidemics, as well as events such as terrorist attacks. The frequency and severity of such events, and the losses associated with them, are inherently unpredictable and can not always be adequately reserved for. Furthermore, we are subject to actuarial and underwriting risks such as, for instance, mortality, morbidity, and adverse home claims development which result from the pricing and acceptance of insurance contracts. In accordance with industry practices, modelling of natural catastrophes is performed and risk mitigation measures are made. In case claims occur, reserves are established based on estimates using actuarial projection techniques. The process of estimating is based on information available at the time the reserves are originally established and includes updates when more information becomes available. Although we continually review the adequacy of the established claim reserves, and based on current information, we believe our claim reserves are sufficient, there can be no assurances that our actual claims experience will not exceed our estimated claim reserves. If actual claim amounts exceed the estimated claim reserves, our earnings may be reduced and our net results may be adversely affected. In addition, because unforeseeable and/or catastrophic events can lead to an abrupt interruption of activities, our banking and insurance operations may be subject to losses resulting from such disruptions. Losses can relate to property, financial assets, trading positions, insurance and pension benefits to employees and also to key personnel. If our business continuity plans are not able to be put into action or do not take such events into account, losses may further increase. 10 Table of Contents Because we operate in highly regulated industries, laws, regulations and regulatory policies or the enforcement thereof that govern activities in our various business lines could have an effect on our reputation, operations and net results. We are subject to detailed banking, insurance, asset management and other financial services laws and government regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Regulatory agencies have broad administrative power over many aspects of the financial services business, which may include liquidity, capital adequacy and permitted investments, ethical issues, money laundering, privacy, record keeping, and marketing and selling practices. Banking, insurance and other financial services laws, regulations and policies currently governing us and our subsidiaries may also change at any time in ways which have an adverse effect on our business, and it is difficult to predict the timing or form of any future regulatory or enforcement initiatives in respect thereof. Also, bank regulators and other supervisory authorities in the EU, the US and elsewhere continue to scrutinize payment processing and other transactions under regulations governing such matters as money-laundering, prohibited transactions with countries subject to sanctions, and bribery or other anti-corruption measures. Regulation is becoming increasingly more extensive and complex and regulators are focusing increased scrutiny on the industries in which we operate, often requiring additional Company resources. These regulations can serve to limit our activities, including through our net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements, and restrictions on businesses in which we can operate or invest. If we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, appropriately any of these matters, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to additional legal risk, which could, in turn, increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties. In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Most of the principal markets where we conduct our business have adopted, or are currently considering, major legislative and/or regulatory initiatives in response to the financial crisis. In particular, governmental and regulatory authorities in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States and elsewhere are implementing measures to increase regulatory control in their respective financial markets and financial services sectors, including in the areas of prudential rules, capital requirements, executive compensation and financial reporting, among others. Most recently, governments in the Netherlands and abroad have intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to stresses experienced in the global financial markets. Some of the measures adopted subject us and other institutions for which they were designed to additional restrictions, oversight or costs. For restrictions related to the agreements of ING with the Dutch State, see “Risks related to the Company — Our agreements with the Dutch State impose certain restrictions regarding the issuance or repurchase of our shares and the compensation of certain senior management positions.” We cannot predict whether or when future legislative or regulatory actions may be taken, or what impact, if any, actions taken to date or in the future could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Despite our efforts to maintain effective compliance procedures and to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there are a number of risks in areas where applicable regulations may be unclear, subject to multiple interpretation or conflict with one another, where regulators revise their previous guidance or courts overturn previous rulings, or we fail to meet applicable standards. Regulators and other authorities have the power to bring administrative or judicial proceedings against us, which could result, amongst other things, in suspension or revocation of our licenses, cease and desist orders, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties or other disciplinary action which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY Ongoing turbulence and volatility in the financial markets have adversely affected us, and may continue to do so. We currently do not expect these conditions to improve in the short term. Our results of operations are materially impacted by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. The stress experienced in the global capital markets that started in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased throughout 2008 and continues in 2009. The crisis in the mortgage market in the United States, triggered by a serious deterioration of credit quality, led to a revaluation of credit risks. These conditions have resulted in greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and overall shortage of liquidity and tightening of financial markets throughout the world. In addition, prices for many types of asset-backed securities (ABS) and other structured products have significantly deteriorated. These concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade, the international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes, such as public and private equity, and real estate sectors. As a result, the market for fixed income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to dispose of. International equity markets have also been experiencing heightened volatility and turmoil, 11 Table of Contents with issuers, including ourselves, that have exposure to the real estate, mortgage, private equity and credit markets particularly affected. These events and the continuing market upheavals, including extreme levels of volatility, have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and extensive real estate activities around the world. In addition, the confidence of customers in financial institutions is being tested. Reduced confidence could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations, including through an increase of lapses or surrenders of policies and withdrawal of deposits. As a result of the ongoing and unprecedented volatility in the global financial markets in 2007 and 2008, we have incurred negative revaluations on our investment portfolio, which have impacted our earnings and shareholders’ equity. Furthermore, we have incurred impairments and other losses, which have impacted our profit and loss accounts. Reserves for insurance liabilities are overall adequate at the Group and Business Line level. Inadequacies in certain product areas have developed. Reference is made to Note 2.1 to the consolidated financial statements “Risk Management — Reserve Aquadecy”. Such impacts have arisen primarily as a result of valuation issues arising in connection with our investments in real estate and private equity, exposures to US mortgage-related structured investment products, including sub-prime and Alt-A Residential and Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities (CMBS and RMBS), Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDOs) and Collateralized Loan Obligations (CLOs), monoline insurer guarantees, Structured Investment Vehicles (SIVs) and other investments. In many cases, the markets for such investments and instruments have become highly illiquid, and issues relating to counterparty credit ratings and other factors have exacerbated pricing and valuation uncertainties. Valuation of such investments and instruments is a complex process involving the consideration of market transactions, pricing models, management judgment and other factors, and is also impacted by external factors such as underlying mortgage default rates, interest rates, rating agency actions and property valuations. While we continue to monitor our exposures in this area, in light of the ongoing market environment and the resulting uncertainties concerning valuations, there can be no assurances that we will not experience further negative impacts to our shareholders’ equity or profit and loss accounts from such assets in future periods. Because we operate in highly competitive markets, including our home market, we may not be able to increase or maintain our market share, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. There is substantial competition in the Netherlands and the other countries in which we do business for the types of insurance, commercial banking, investment banking, asset management and other products and services we provide. Customer loyalty and retention can be influenced by a number of factors, including relative service levels, the prices and attributes of products and services, and actions taken by competitors. If we are not able to match or compete with the products and services offered by our competitors, it could adversely impact our ability to maintain or further increase our market share, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Such competition is most pronounced in our more mature markets of the Netherlands, Belgium, the Rest of Europe, the United States, Canada and Australia. In recent years, however, competition in emerging markets, such as Latin America, Asia and Central and Eastern Europe, has also increased as large insurance and banking industry participants from more developed countries have sought to establish themselves in markets which are perceived to offer higher growth potential, and as local institutions have become more sophisticated and competitive and have sought alliances, mergers or strategic relationships with our competitors. The Netherlands and the United States are our largest markets for both our banking and insurance operations. Our main competitors in the banking sector in the Netherlands are ABN AMRO Bank/Fortis and Rabobank. Our main competitors in the insurance sector in the Netherlands are Achmea, Fortis and Aegon. Our main competitors in the United States are insurance companies such as Lincoln National, Hartford, Aegon Americas, AXA, Met Life, Prudential, Nationwide and Principal Financial. Increasing competition in these or any of our other markets may significantly impact our results if we are unable to match the products and services offered by our competitors. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. In 2008, this trend accelerated considerably, as several major financial institutions consolidated, were forced to merge or received substantial government assistance. These developments could result in our competitors gaining greater access to capital and liquidity, expanding their ranges of products and services, or gaining geographic diversity. We may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors in the event that some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. 12 Table of Contents Because we do business with many counterparties, the inability of these counterparties to meet their financial obligations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. General Third-parties that owe us money, securities or other assets may not pay or perform under their obligations. These parties include the issuers whose securities we hold, borrowers under loans originated, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps, credit default and other derivative contracts, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing house and other financial intermediaries. Defaults by one or more of these parties on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, downturns in the economy or real estate values, operational failure, etc., or even rumors about potential defaults by one or more of these parties or regarding the financial services industry generally, could lead to losses for us, and defaults by other institutions. In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized, or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. We also have exposure to a number of financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions and equity investments. There is no assurance that losses on, or impairments to the carrying value of these assets would not materially and adversely affect our business or results of operations. Reinsurers Our insurance operations have bought protection for risks that exceed certain risk tolerance levels set for both our life and non-life businesses. This protection is bought through reinsurance arrangements in order to reduce possible losses. Because in most cases we must pay the policyholders first, and then collect from the reinsurer, we are subject to credit risk with respect to each reinsurer for all such amounts. As a percentage of our (potential) reinsurance receivables as of December 31, 2008, the greatest exposure after collateral to an individual reinsurer was approximately 32%, approximately 68% related to four other reinsurers and the remainder of the reinsurance receivables balance related to various other reinsurers. The inability or unwillingness of any one of these reinsurers to meet its financial obligations to us, or the insolvency of our reinsurers, could have a material adverse effect on our net results and our financial results. Because we use assumptions about factors to determine the insurance provisions, deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and value of business added (VOBA), the use of different assumptions about these factors may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The establishment of insurance provisions, including the impact of minimum guarantees which are contained within certain variable annuity products, the adequacy test performed on the provisions for life policies and the establishment of DAC and VOBA are inherently uncertain processes involving assumptions about factors such as court decisions, changes in laws, social, economic and demographic trends, inflation, investment returns, policyholder behaviour (e.g. lapses, persistency, etc.) and other factors, and, in the life insurance business, assumptions concerning mortality and morbidity trends. The use of different assumptions about these factors could have a material effect on insurance provisions and underwriting expense. Changes in assumptions may lead to changes in the insurance provisions over time. Furthermore, some of these assumptions can be volatile. Because we use assumptions to model client behavior for the purpose of our market risk calculations, the difference between the realization and the assumptions may have an adverse impact on the risk figures and future results. We use assumptions in order to model client behavior for the risk calculations in our banking and insurance books. Assumptions are used to determine insurance liabilities, the price sensitivity of savings and current accounts and to estimate the embedded optional risk in the mortgage and investment portfolios. The realization or use of different assumptions to determine the client behavior could have material adverse effect on the calculated risk figures and ultimately future results. Because we also operate in markets with less developed judiciary and dispute resolution systems, in the event of disputes in these markets, the quality and the effectiveness of such systems could have an adverse effect on our operations and net results. In the less developed markets in which we operate, judiciary and dispute resolution systems may be less developed. As a result in case of a breach of contract we may have difficulties in making and enforcing claims against contractual counterparties and, if claims are made against us, we might encounter difficulties in mounting a defence against such allegations. If we become party to legal proceedings in a market with an insufficiently developed judiciary system, it could have an adverse effect on our operations and net result. 13 Table of Contents Because we are a financial services company and we are continually developing new financial products, we might be faced with claims that could have an adverse effect on our operations and net result if clients’ expectations are not met. When new financial products are brought to the market, communication and marketing aims to present a balanced view of the product (however there is a focus on potential advantages for the customers). Whilst we engage in a due diligence process when we develop products, if the products do not generate the expected profit, or result in a loss, or otherwise do not meet expectations, customers may file claims against us. Such claims could have an adverse effect on our operations and net result. Ratings are important to our business for a number of reasons. Among these are the issuance of debt, the sale of certain products and the risk weighting of Bank assets. Downgrades could have an adverse impact on our operations and net results. We obtain credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch. While we aim to maintain a senior unsecured rating of AA, each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings and rating methodologies on a recurring basis and may decide on a downgrade at any time. In the event of a downgrade the cost of issuing debt will increase, having an adverse effect on net results. Claims paying ability, at the Group or subsidiary level, and financial strength ratings are factors in establishing the competitive position of insurers. A rating downgrade could elevate lapses or surrenders of policies requiring cash payments, which might force us to sell assets at a price that may result in realized investment losses. Among others, total invested assets decreases and deferred acquisition costs might need to be accelerated, adversely impacting earnings. A downgrade may adversely impact relationships with distributors of our products and services and customers, which may affect new sales and our competitive position. Our Bank assets are risk weighted. Downgrades of these assets could result in a higher risk weighting which may result in higher capital requirements and thus a need to deleverage. This may impact net earnings and the return on capital, and may have an adverse impact on our competitive position. Our business may be negatively affected by a sustained increase in inflation. A sustained increase in the inflation rate in our principal markets would have multiple impacts on ING and may negatively affect our business, solvency position and results of operations. For example, a sustained increase in the inflation rate may result in an increase in market interest rates which may (i) decrease the value of certain fixed income securities we hold in our investment portfolios resulting in reduced levels of unrealized capital gains available to us which could negatively impact our solvency position and net income, (ii) result in increased surrenders of certain life & savings products, particularly, those with fixed rates below market rates, and (iii) require us, as an issuer of securities, to pay higher interest rates on debt securities we issue in the financial markets from time to time to finance our operations which would increase our interest expenses and reduce our results of operations. A significant and sustained increase in inflation has historically also been associated with decreased prices for equity securities and sluggish performance of equity markets generally. A sustained decline in equity markets may (i) result in impairment charges to equity securities that we hold in our investment portfolios and reduced levels of unrealized capital gains available to us which would reduce our net income and negatively impact our solvency position, (ii) negatively impact performance, future sales and surrenders of our unit-linked products where underlying investments are often allocated to equity funds, and (iii) negatively impact the ability of our asset management subsidiaries to retain and attract assets under management, as well as the value of assets they do manage, which may negatively impact their results of operations. In addition, in the context of certain property & casualty risks underwritten by our insurance subsidiaries (particularly “long-tail” risks), a sustained increase in inflation with a resulting increase in market interest rates may result in (i) claims inflation (i.e., an increase in the amount ultimately paid to settle claims several years after the policy coverage period or event giving rise to the claim), coupled with (ii) an underestimation of corresponding claims reserves at the time of establishment due to a failure to fully anticipate increased inflation and its effect on the amounts ultimately payable to policyholders, and, consequently, (iii) actual claims payments significantly exceeding associated insurance reserves which would negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, a failure to accurately anticipate higher inflation and factor it into our product pricing assumptions may result in a systemic mis-pricing of our products resulting in underwriting losses which would negatively impact our results of operations. Operational risks are inherent in our business. Our businesses depend on the ability to process a large number of transactions efficiently and accurately. Losses can result from inadequate personnel, inadequate or failed internal control processes and systems, or from external events that interrupt normal business operations. We also face the risk that the design of our 14 Table of Contents controls and procedures prove to be inadequate or are circumvented. We have suffered losses from operational risk in the past and there can be no assurance that we will not suffer material losses from operational risk in the future. Our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to the Company, other well-known companies or the financial services industry in general. Adverse publicity and damage to ING’s reputation arising from its failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, financial reporting irregularities involving other large and well known companies, increasing regulatory and law enforcement scrutiny of “know your customer” anti-money laundering, prohibited transactions with countries subject to sanctions, and bribery or other anti-corruption measures and anti-terrorist-financing procedures and their effectiveness, regulatory investigations of the mutual fund, banking and insurance industries, and litigation that arises from the failure or perceived failure by ING to comply with legal, regulatory and compliance requirements, could result in adverse publicity and reputation harm, lead to increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers, maintain access to the capital markets, result in cease and desist orders, suits, enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal penalties, other disciplinary action or have other material adverse effects on us in ways that are not predictable. Because we are a Dutch company and because the Stichting ING Aandelen holds more than 99% of our Ordinary shares, the rights of our shareholders may differ from the rights of shareholders in other jurisdictions, which could affect your rights as a shareholder. While holders of our bearer receipts are entitled to attend and speak at the General Meeting, voting rights are not attached to the bearer depositary receipts. Stichting ING Aandelen (“the Trust”) holds more than 99% of our Ordinary shares, and exercises the voting rights attached to the Ordinary shares (for which bearer receipts have been issued). Holders of bearer receipts who attend – in person or by proxy — the General Meeting must obtain voting rights by proxy from the Trust. Holders of bearer receipts and holders of the ADSs (American Depositary Shares) representing the bearer receipts, who do not attend the General Meeting, may give binding voting instructions to the Trust. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Voting Instructions of holders of bearer receipts of Ordinary shares to the Trust”. The Trust is entitled to vote on any Ordinary shares underlying the bearer depositary receipts for which the Trust has not granted voting proxies, or voting instructions have not been given to the Trust. In exercising its voting discretion, the Trust is required to make use of the voting rights attached to the Ordinary shares in the interest of the holders of bearer receipts, while taking into account: § our interests, § the interests of our affiliates, and § the interests of our other stakeholders in such a way that all interests are balanced and safeguarded as effectively as possible. The Trust may, but has no obligation to, consult with the holders of bearer receipts or ADSs in exercising its voting rights in respect of any Ordinary shares for which it is entitled to vote. These arrangements differ from practices in other jurisdictions, and accordingly may affect the rights of the holders of bearer receipts or ADSs and their power to affect the Company’s business and operations. The share price of our bearer receipts and ADSs has been, and may continue to be, volatile which may impact the value of our bearer receipts or ADSs you hold. The share price of our bearer receipts and our ADSs has been volatile in the past, in particular over the past year. The share price and trading volume of our bearer receipts and our ADSs may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due, in part, to the high volatility in the securities markets generally and more particular in shares of financial institutions. Other factors, besides our financial results, that may impact our share price include, but are not limited to: § market expectations of the performance and capital adequacy of financial institutions in general; § investor perception of the success and impact of our strategies; § a downgrade or review of our credit ratings; 15 Table of Contents § potential litigation or regulatory action involving ING Group or sectors we have exposure to through our insurance and banking activities; § announcements concerning financial problems or any investigations into the accounting practices of other financial institutions; and § general market circumstances. Our agreements with the Dutch State impose certain restrictions regarding the issuance or repurchase of our shares and the compensation of certain senior management positions. For so long as the Dutch State holds at least 25% of the Core Tier-I Securities issued by us on November 12, 2008, for so long as the Illiquid Assets Back-up Facility between ourselves and the Dutch State agreed upon in the term sheet of January 26, 2009 is in place, or for so long as any of the government guaranteed senior unsecured bonds issued by ING Bank N.V. successively on January 30, 2009, February 20, 2009 and March 12, 2009 under the Credit Guarantee Scheme of the Netherlands (the “Government Guaranteed Bonds”) are outstanding, whichever expires last, we are prohibited from issuing or repurchasing any of our own shares (other than as part of regular hedging operations and the issuance of shares according to employment schemes) without the consent of the Dutch State’s nominees on the Supervisory Board (see below). In addition, under the terms of these agreements with the Dutch State, we have agreed to institute certain restrictions on the compensation of the members of the Executive Board and Senior Management, including incentives or performance-based compensation. These restrictions could hinder or prevent us from attracting or retaining the most qualified management with the talent and experience to manage our business effectively. In connection with these transactions, the Dutch State was granted the right to nominate two candidates for appointment to the Supervisory Board. The Dutch State’s nominees have veto rights over certain material transactions, as set forth in “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees – Supervisory Board”. The issuance of the Core Tier-I Securities to the Dutch State has increased the cumulative change of ownership for United States tax purposes to approximately 42% as per November 12, 2008. Future increases of capital or other ownership changes may bring ING over the 50% threshold, in which case limitations to the future use of tax loss carry forwards as well as certain so-called built-in-losses may adversely affect net result and equity. Section 382 of the United States Internal Revenue Code contains a so-called loss limitation rule, the general purpose of which is to prevent trafficking in tax losses (i.e. it is an anti-abuse rule). The rule is triggered when the ownership of a company changes by more than 50% (measured by value) on a cumulative basis in any three year period. If triggered, restrictions may be imposed on the future use of realised tax losses as well as certain losses that are built into the assets of the company at the time of the ownership change and that are realised within the next five years. The issuance of EUR 10 billion of securities by ING to the Dutch State on November 12, 2008 brought ING’s (cumulative) change of ownership as per that date to approximately 42%. As a result, future increases in capital or other changes of ownership may adversely affect the net result or equity of ING, unless relief from the loss limitation rules is obtained, which may or may not be possible. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands and most of the members of our Supervisory and Executive Board and many of our officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or the members of our Supervisory and Executive Boards or our officers. Most of our Supervisory and Executive Board members, and some of the experts named in this Annual Report, as well as many of our officers are persons who are not residents of the United States, and most of our and their assets, are located outside the United States. As a result, you may not be able to serve process on those persons within the United States or to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. You also may not be able to enforce judgments of U.S. courts under the U.S. federal securities laws in courts outside the United States, including the Netherlands. The United States and the Netherlands do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, you will not be able to enforce in the Netherlands a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, even if the judgment is not based only on the U.S. federal securities laws, unless a competent court in the Netherlands gives binding effect to the judgment. 16 Table of Contents 