D. Risk Factors. Our business, performance and financial condition are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those described in the risk factors below. These risks and uncertainties could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, and a material decline in the trading price of our common stock and American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”). We may be adversely affected by the global economy, particularly with respect to Japan, the United States and Europe While the global economy has recently begun to gradually expand as a result of the growth of emerging economies, effects of economic stimulus measures following the global financial crisis and other factors, the economic uncertainty triggered by the Greek sovereign debt crisis has adversely affected the entire European continent and heightened the risk of turmoil in the global economy. 2 Table of Contents Against this global backdrop, the Japanese economy has continued to suffer from the appreciation of the yen and deflation. While growth is expected from the adoption of the reconstruction budget in response to the earthquake and tsunami that struck northeastern Japan in March 2011, the outlook of the Japanese economy remains uncertain due to the long-term effects of the natural disaster, such as power and energy supply-related issues. During fiscal 2012, the Japanese market accounted for approximately 87% of our net sales, and the United States and European markets accounted for approximately 6.9%. In the major markets in which we operate, the continued weakness or deterioration in the economy may have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Our businesses may be particularly sensitive to declines in consumer spending. In addition, another financial crisis may result in lower returns or losses on our financial investments. Continued difficulties faced or changes in business policies made by department stores, general merchandisers and other general retailers in Japan would hurt our business In fiscal 2012, a substantial majority of our net sales were made to department stores, general merchandisers and other general retailers in Japan. While we are making efforts to increase sales from our direct sales outlets, catalog and the Internet, we expect that the majority of our net sales will continue to be made through department stores, general merchandisers and other general retailers in Japan for the foreseeable future. In recent years, many department stores, general merchandisers and other general retailers in Japan have experienced business difficulties for a variety of reasons, including weak consumer spending, competition from convenience stores, catalog and Internet retailers and other sources. Due to such circumstances, the retail market has been undergoing a structural change, which has led to, among other things, the emergence of specialty apparel manufacturers. As a result of this trend, which we expect to continue for the foreseeable future, the share of sales from department stores, general merchandisers and specialty retail stores in the overall retail market is expected to remain weak and may continue to decline. Continued weakness in the department store, general merchandise and specialty retail sector would make it difficult to increase sales to our customers in this sector, and the failure of one or more of our important general retail customers could materially harm our business. This would mean an immediate loss of sales to such failed retailer and the potential inability to collect some or all of our outstanding accounts receivable from it. Likewise, increased consolidation of Japanese department stores and general merchandisers in preparation for a shrinking market due to the future anticipated decrease in the population of Japan may allow our customers to increase their bargaining power in negotiating pricing and other terms of trade, which could have a material impact on our profitability. Any change in business policy by Japan’s leading retailers would have an adverse impact on our performance, such as net sales or return on sales. As a result of any of the above factors or otherwise, any change in the business environment surrounding department stores, general merchandisers or other general retailers in Japan would have a material impact on our business, profitability and financial condition. Our sales may decline if we are unable to effectively anticipate and respond to consumer tastes and preferences and deliver high-quality products Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively anticipate and respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and demands, and to translate market trends into products that consumers want to buy at prices that will allow us to be profitable. Customer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly and are difficult to predict. If we are unable to successfully anticipate or respond to changing styles or trends, or if we lose the support of our customers, we would be unable to achieve our sales targets and our financial results would suffer as a result. In addition, we believe that we have established broad brand recognition in our core Japanese market for our high quality and fashionable women’s innerwear garments, and that this brand recognition is very important for our ability to target the high end of the women’s innerwear market. As a result, our brand image may suffer if we misjudge the market or sell defective merchandise causing consumers to believe that we are not able to offer attractive fashions and top-quality products. If any event were to occur that harms our reputation for producing high-quality products, our sales, operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 3 Table of Contents The apparel market is highly competitive, and our share of sales or profitability may decline if we are unable to maintain our competitiveness The sale of intimate and other apparel is highly competitive, and we must compete for sales with a wide range of other apparel companies. In addition to competition from wholesalers and direct retailers in the mid- to high-end undergarment market in Japan, we must also compete against catalog and Internet sales and new entrants to the intimate apparel market, including mass-market and specialty apparel companies, as well as outerwear fashion manufacturers. An important factor affecting the competitive environment in our industry in recent years has been the increased penetration of lower-priced garments in the market. Factors driving this trend include increased product sourcing and production in China, Vietnam and other lower-cost countries, the introduction of new manufacturing technologies, consolidation in the retail industry and a prolonged period of sluggish consumer spending, particularly in Japan. Our strategy of focusing on the higher end of the intimate apparel market may help us avoid potential negative effects of such trends on our business and performance, including possible loss of market share and reduced profitability. However, we are affected by these competitive trends and our strategy may not be successful. Additionally, we continue to be challenged by the emergence of new and competitive retail concepts in the Japanese intimate apparel industry, which target customers through catalog marketing, e-commerce and other means. Increased competition could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of sales volume and market share, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and operating results. Expansion of our specialty retail store network, particularly of stores carrying brands other than Wacoal or Wing brands, may not lead to improved sales and profits As of March 31, 2012, we had a total of 238 stores in our network in Japan, of which 155, including 18 factory outlet stores, carried brands other than Wacoal or Wing brands, such as those of Peach John Co., Ltd. (“Peach John”). We hope to increase our contact with younger women and other consumers who may have less awareness of our brand and products and who may be less likely to shop for intimate apparel in the general retail stores that carry our products, particularly through our efforts in promoting our network of specialty retail stores carrying brands other than Wacoal or Wing brands. In pursuing this strategy, we believe increasing sales to younger career-oriented women, as well as younger women in general, is essential for increasing future sales and improving profitability. In June 2006, we entered into a business and capital alliance with Peach John by acquiring 49% of its shares. Subsequently, in January 2008, we made Peach John a wholly owned subsidiary, which, in combination with our specialty retail business, enabled us to strength our business targeting younger consumers. However, there are a number of risks that we must address in order for our specialty retail stores to succeed, and we may not be successful in resolving these risks, especially in light of our limited experience in operating our own stores. For example: • our specialty retail store strategy depends in large part on our ability to find attractive store locations that will provide sufficient customer traffic to drive sales; • we must compete for good store locations with other retailers pursuing similar strategies; • we may not be able to open new stores with capital investment, leasing and other costs that will allow us to earn a reasonable return; and • we must effectively recruit personnel, control inventory, market our stores and new product lines and otherwise operate our stores successfully. We are developing and marketing distinct lines of intimate apparel for our specialty retail stores under brands that do not feature the Wacoal name in order to reach the targeted customers for our stores and avoid competition with our general retail customers who carry our Wacoal brand apparel. This strategy carries risks, including the risk that our new apparel lines may not meet the fashion, function and other needs of our targeted customers. 4 Table of Contents Rapid changes in the retail market in Japan in recent years, such as declines in the number and sales of department stores, new controls on mass-merchandising stores, increases in sales at direct sales outlets and on the Internet, and declines in the prices of innerwear and the number of innerwear items sold per person, make it difficult for us to evaluate the performance of our specialty retail stores to date and to estimate whether we will achieve success in the future. Further investment is necessary in order to expand our specialty retail store business, including costs for the development of new stores and the closure of underperforming stores, and improvement costs for the specialty retail store brand. If new shops fail to secure the expected sales levels, if expenses such as shop rent or personnel costs increase due to changes in the market environment, or if the specialty retail store brand fails to be popular with customers, we may not be able to make sufficient gains to recover the investment. We may experience difficulties in successfully increasing our catalog and Internet sales We believe that our catalog and Internet sales will be increasingly important in achieving sales growth, and we are seeking to strengthen our capabilities in these channels. However, we face challenges in our catalog and Internet sales strategies. Our sales through these channels currently represent a small share of our overall sales. We face intense competition in our catalog and Internet business, and many of our competitors have more experience and have devoted more resources to these channels than we have. Although our 2008 acquisition of Peach John—which has a large share of catalog sales to young people in Japan—has contributed to our efforts in this area, we believe that we need to make further system investments in order to expand our catalog and Internet sales for our group as a whole. However, we may not be successful in increasing our catalog and Internet sales sufficiently to compensate for continued flat or declining sales through our core general retailer channel, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results and may lead to impairment charges against goodwill and intangible assets recorded in connection with our acquisition of Peach John. We are subject to inventory risks that could negatively affect our operating results Fluctuations in the demand for our products may affect the inventory we own because we usually manufacture our products well in advance of the applicable season and sometimes before fashion trends are identified or evidenced by customer purchases. In addition, the cyclical nature of the retail business requires us to carry additional inventory, especially prior to peak selling seasons when we generally build up inventory levels. We generally enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise with our suppliers well in advance of the applicable selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. Therefore, if we are unable to successfully anticipate or respond to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales will suffer and we may be faced with significant amounts of unsold inventory. In response, we may be forced to reduce our product prices, increase our marketing promotions or take other steps, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we review our inventories on a regular basis for their salability and for indications of obsolescence to determine if a write-down due to changes in market demand and other factors is necessary. Any write-downs of inventory resulting from such reviews may have an adverse impact on our earnings and profitability, depending on the extent of the markdowns and the amount of inventory affected. Improvement in our profitability will largely depend on our ability to reduce costs Reducing our cost of conducting business is a key element of our strategy to improve our profitability and business performance, particularly in the coming years during which growth in sales will remain difficult to achieve as consumer spending remains stagnant in Japan. In recent years, we have taken certain steps intended to reduce our costs. For example, in order to improve the efficiency of our product distribution system, we have reduced the number of our distribution centers over the years from the eighteen centers we maintained in 1998 to our present four distribution centers. We have also taken steps over the years to reduce our labor costs in Japan, such as closing production facilities, implementing 5 Table of Contents an early retirement program and undertaking a reform of our pension plan. We are also seeking to produce or otherwise source more of our apparel in China, Vietnam and other lower-cost countries. Additionally, we are reorganizing production functions and taking other steps to reduce manufacturing costs. However, with the possibility of an increase in product material prices, a rise in labor costs in China, Vietnam and other countries or costs being incurred in response to changes in the business environment, we may not be successful in materially reducing our costs, and any cost reductions that we achieve may not be large enough to compensate for difficulties that we may face in increasing our sales. A failure to reduce our costs would have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. It may be difficult for us to attract and retain highly qualified personnel The growth of our business depends significantly on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel in areas such as product planning, manufacturing technology and sales and marketing. The competition for qualified personnel in Japan is intensifying due to factors such as a gradual reduction of the working population due to demographic trends in Japan and the increased demand for labor. Our ability to attract qualified personnel depends in large part on our ability to establish and maintain a positive image in the labor market. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by irregular weather events Our business performance and results can be affected by the weather and irregularity of seasons. We typically launch new intimate apparel product campaigns for the spring/summer and fall/winter seasons of each year for our Wacoal and Wing brands and our business success largely depends on the success of these seasonal product campaigns. We also produce and acquire merchandise in advance of the peak selling periods of the seasons during which we intend to sell such merchandise and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by consumer purchases. If a season is unusually warm, cold, short, long or in any other way irregular, consumers may change their buying habits, and we may not be able to sell our inventory in the way we anticipated at the time of purchase. Changes in seasonal weather patterns and extreme weather events have adversely affected our sales in the past and may affect us in the future. We cannot predict future weather patterns or judge the effect that weather patterns may have on our sales and profitability. We may face increasing risks relating to conducting business internationally In fiscal 2012, approximately 87% of our net sales were made in Japan. However, we have gradually increased both the amount of goods we produce and the amount of raw materials we procure in lower-cost countries, such as China—a trend we expect to continue. In addition, we are making efforts to expand our product sales in overseas markets, including in the United States, Europe and China. These initiatives and trends may increasingly subject us to various risks relating to the conduct of our business abroad, including: • differing consumer tastes and preferences in overseas markets; • political, social and economic instability in countries where we source, manufacture or sell our products; • unexpected tax, legal or regulatory changes or actions that may adversely affect our group, including such risks in China; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • changes in exchange rates; • differing protection of intellectual property; and • public health or similar problems in our important overseas markets or sourcing/production centers. 6 Table of Contents For instance, in fiscal 2012, the Chinese authorities targeted many department stores for their misleading practice of advertising products purportedly at a discount without proper disclosure of the prediscounted price, thereby adversely affecting sales at these department stores, which serve as important distribution channels. While we believe that this issue has been largely resolved, similar administrative guidance or enforcement action by the Chinese or any other authorities may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not be successful with acquisitions and other strategic transactions with third parties We intend to evaluate and pursue opportunities for acquisitions, investments and other strategic transactions that we believe will help us achieve our business objectives, including extending our product offerings in Japan and in overseas markets and strengthening our capabilities in Internet, catalog and other marketing channels. Three of our key transactions are as follows: • Peach John. In June 2006, we entered into a business and capital alliance with Peach John, which markets innerwear, outerwear and other products of its own original design to younger women in Japan through catalog and company-owned retail store sales, by acquiring a 49% interest. In January 2008, we acquired the remaining 51% interest and made Peach John a wholly owned subsidiary. • Lecien. In August 2009, Lecien Corporation (“Lecien”), which manufactures and sells women’s innerwear and clothing for the Japanese market, became our wholly owned subsidiary through a share exchange. Lecien’s strength is in the so-called “volume zone,” which is the market for products in the mid-price range generating the largest volume of sales. • Eveden. In April 2012, we acquired all of the shares of Eveden Group Limited (“Eveden”), a corporation engaged in the manufacture and sale of women’s undergarments and swimming wear mainly in the United Kingdom and other European countries, North America, Australia, Asia and other areas. Any acquisitions or other strategic transactions that we have pursued or may pursue in the future may involve significant risks to our company and the value of your shares. For example, your equity in us may be significantly diluted if we issue shares as consideration in any significant strategic transaction. Also, our balance of available cash will be reduced to the extent that we pay cash as consideration in one or more strategic transactions. Other potential risks that may arise from our strategic transactions include the following: • difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of an acquired business; • our inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of an acquired business; • our inability to maintain an acquired company’s relationships with customers, suppliers and other key third parties; • exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to the acquisition; • the diversion of our management’s attention from our core business; • impairment charges we would have to take if we were to conclude that there had been an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of our investment in an investee company, below its carrying value if, for example, the investee business was not generating increasing cash flows as quickly as we had expected at the time of our initial investment; • possible impairment charges to goodwill or intangible assets; and • failure to achieve any intended cost reductions due to unsuccessful integration of or a lack of cooperation between our businesses with those of our counterparties. If any of these or any other material risks occur, it could have an adverse effect on a business we acquire, as well as the results, financial condition and cash flow of our existing operations. For example, in fiscal 2010, we 7 Table of Contents evaluated the recoverability of Peach John’s customer relationships, which had been recorded as an intangible fixed asset, and recognized an impairment loss of approximately ¥1,023 million as a result. In fiscal 2011, we recognized a further impairment loss of ¥1,772 million composed of an impairment loss of approximately ¥559 million against trademarks, ¥377 million against customer relationships and ¥836 million against goodwill after reassessing the fair value of Peach John. We may not be able to recover the cost of investments we make in pursuing growth opportunities and developing new markets Our pursuit of growth opportunities and new markets through international expansion, acquisitions, strategic alliances or otherwise will require significant resources, time and costs. There is no guarantee that we will generate results that are sufficient to cover the cost of making any such investment, even if we conduct an extensive due diligence investigation and other analyses prior to making the investment to maximize the probability of success and minimize the risks. Failure to recover the cost of investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, while our aggressive efforts to expand our business in China have increased our net sales there, we have not recorded any operating profit in China and may never reach a level of profitability in China that justifies our cost of investments to expand our business there. We may face infringement of our intellectual property rights or claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others We are subject to certain risks in our business relating to intellectual property rights. In particular, we believe that our brands and related trademarks are important to our ability to create and sustain demand for our products and to the value of our business. We may encounter trademark and related disputes in the future, and our actions to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products or the infringement of our trademarks and proprietary rights by others, which could materially harm our operations and financial condition. Additionally, other parties have asserted in the past, and may assert in the future, that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. We cannot predict whether any such assertions or related claims will substantially harm our financial condition or results of operations. If we fail to protect our customers’ privacy and data and maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets we may face proceedings against us, lose customer confidence or lose our market position We must comply with laws and regulations regarding privacy and the protection of customer information in the jurisdictions where we conduct our business and operations. These laws and regulations change from time to time and are not consistent across jurisdictions. Violations of these requirements could arise in a number of ways, including problems with our information systems and inadvertent or intentional disclosures of information by our employees. Any failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on sales and profitability. Complying with varying privacy requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs and force us to change our business practices. Any failure by us or third parties to whom we entrust any of our operations to properly protect our customers’ privacy and data could cause customers to lose confidence in our business and products, which could result in a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Additionally, in order for us to secure and maintain an advantageous position in the market, we need to protect our trade secrets, such as manufacturing technology and product information. If these trade secrets are divulged by any party related to us or infringed by another company, our business or financial condition could be materially affected. 8 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting we may not be able to produce reliable financial reports in a timely manner or prevent financial fraud Beginning with our annual report on Form 20-F for fiscal 2007, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. As a result of yearly evaluations conducted by management and independent external auditors we have not discovered any material deficiencies during fiscal 2012. However, we recognize that there are certain improvements that we should make with particular aspects of our internal controls. In addition, although we have a policy of actively responding to identified deficiencies at the group level, there is a possibility that we may not be able to successfully implement revised controls and procedures, and our revised controls and procedures may not be effective in remedying any deficiencies that are identified. Furthermore, there is a chance that new deficiencies will arise owing to changes and amendments to the standards for establishing and maintaining effective internal controls or changes that affect the business environment generally, and we may not be able to conclude for the purpose of our annual reports that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and important in helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports on a timely basis or prevent financial fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Our holdings of equity securities expose us to market risks We hold equity and other securities in a number of publicly traded Japanese companies. A significant drop in the value of these securities, or in the Japanese equity markets in general, could have an adverse impact on our financial results in the relevant reporting period. For example, although our balance sheet as of March 31, 2012 showed an unrealized gain on securities of ¥4,197 million, we were required to recognize a valuation loss on our equity securities holdings of ¥831 million for fiscal 2012. This loss recognition was primarily the result of a determination that a decrease in the fair market value of certain equity securities was other than temporary. In addition, if there is a decrease in our pension assets due to adverse conditions in stock or bond markets or other factors, additional funding and accruals may be required, and such funding and accruals may adversely affect our performance and financial condition. For example, our selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2009 increased as compared to such expenses for fiscal 2008, due in part to a significant increase in the actuarial loss in our pension plans caused by poor returns on the securities included in the plan assets. While our pension assets have not suffered material actual losses since fiscal 2009, there is no assurance that we will not incur future increases in expenses or other costs due to decreases in the valuation of our pension assets. Natural disasters and epidemics could affect our manufacturing abilities, results of operations or financial condition Japan is one of the most seismically active countries in the world; it also regularly experiences typhoons and other natural disasters. In the event of a large earthquake, other natural disaster or outbreak of an epidemic that affects our employees or our ability to continue using any of our sales or manufacturing facilities, our sales and marketing efforts would be adversely affected and we would face the possibility of work delays or stoppages, any of which could have a negative effect on our business. Any such natural disaster or epidemic could also cause disruptions in the transportation networks that our business relies upon and could interfere with our normal course of production and distribution. Furthermore, any such natural disaster or epidemic would also have a large impact on consumer activity, which would have a significant impact on the sales of our products. Any such natural disaster or epidemic could also force us to recognize impairment charges on our investments or goodwill 9 Table of Contents or other intangible assets. For instance, we recognized an impairment loss after reassessing the fair value of Peach John in March 2011 partly in light of the effects of the major earthquake and tsunami that struck Northeast Japan in March 2011 as well as due to worsened market conditions and weakened consumer spending. See “—We may not be successful with acquisitions and other strategic transactions with third parties.” Additionally, because one of our main business activities is manufacturing, our operations are particularly vulnerable to damage to infrastructure. Any damage to our means of manufacture or production could result in significant impairment charges to our business. We may become classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. holders of our stock or ADSs We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, U.S. investors, who owned our common stock or ADSs during any taxable year in which we were a PFIC, generally are subject to increased U.S. tax liabilities and reporting requirements for that taxable year and all succeeding years, regardless of whether we actually continue to be a PFIC, although a shareholder election to terminate such deemed PFIC status may be available in certain circumstances. We do not intend to provide information to permit you to make a qualified electing fund election to avoid the adverse U.S. tax consequences discussed above. The same adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences will apply to U.S. investors who acquire our common stock or ADSs during the current taxable year or any subsequent taxable year if we are treated as a PFIC for that taxable year. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes for a taxable year if either (i) 75% or more of our gross income for such taxable year is passive income or (ii) 50% or more of the average percentage of our assets during such taxable year either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. For such purposes, if we directly or indirectly own 25% or more of the shares of another corporation, we generally will be treated as if we (i) held directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets and (ii) received directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s income. We do not believe that we were a PFIC for the preceding taxable year or should be a PFIC for the current taxable year. However, because the PFIC determination is highly fact intensive and made at the end of each taxable year, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year or that the IRS will not challenge our determination concerning our PFIC status. Given the complexity of the issues regarding our classification as a PFIC, U.S. investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors for guidance as to the U.S. federal, state, local and foreign tax consequences of our status as a PFIC. For further discussion of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of our classification as a PFIC, see “Item 10.E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Taxation of U.S. Holders—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations” below. Yen-dollar fluctuations could cause the market price of the ADSs to decline and reduce dividend amounts payable to ADS holders as expressed in U.S. dollars Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Japanese yen price of the shares on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and, as a result, are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs. If we declare cash dividends, dividends on the shares represented by the ADSs will be paid to the depositary in Japanese yen and then converted by the depositary into U.S. dollars. Therefore, exchange rate fluctuations will also affect the dividend amounts payable to ADS holders following conversion into U.S. dollars of dividends paid in Japanese yen on the shares represented by the ADSs. 10 Table of Contents As a holder of ADSs, you will have fewer rights than a shareholder has, and you must act through the depositary to exercise those rights The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take various actions, including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights, are available only to shareholders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the registered holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, only the depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying a holder’s ADSs as instructed by the holder and will pay to the holder the dividends and distributions collected from us. However, in the holder’s capacity as an ADS holder, that holder will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and records or exercise appraisal rights through the depositary. Japan’s unit share system imposes restrictions on holdings of our common stock that do not constitute whole units The Companies Act of Japan allows companies to set one “unit” of shares for the purpose of exercising voting rights at the general meetings of shareholders. Under our articles of incorporation, one unit of our shares is composed of 1,000 shares, equivalent to 200 ADSs. Each unit of our shares has one vote. A holder who owns shares or ADSs, in other than multiples of 1,000 or 200, respectively, will own less than a whole unit. Our articles of incorporation, in accordance with the Japanese Companies Act, impose significant restrictions on the rights of holders of shares constituting less than a whole unit, which include restrictions on the right to vote, to attend a shareholders’ meeting and to bring derivative actions. Under the unit share system, holders of our shares constituting less than one unit have the right to require us to purchase their shares and the right to require us to sell them additional shares to create a whole unit of 1,000 shares. The unit share system does not affect the transferability of ADSs, which may be transferred in lots of any number of whole ADSs. For a further discussion of the Japanese unit share system, see “Item 10.B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Capital Stock—Unit Share System.” 