Item 1A. Risk Factors Oil and gas prices are highly volatile, and lower oil and gas prices will negatively affect our financial position, planned capital expenditures and results of operations. At times since July 2008, publicly quoted spot natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil prices reached levels significantly lower than the record levels reached at that time. In the past, some oil and gas companies have reduced or curtailed production to mitigate the impact of low oil and gas prices. We have made similar decisions on selected properties in the recent past and may decide to curtail additional production as a result of a decrease in prices in the future. More recently, further decreases in natural gas prices led us to suspend or curtail drilling and other exploration activities for natural gas in the Barnett Shale, and subsequent price declines to multi-year lows may extend the period for which such exploration activities are suspended or curtailed. The decrease in natural gas prices has had a significant impact on our financial position, planned capital expenditures and results of operations. Further volatility in oil and gas prices or a prolonged period of low oil and gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial position, liquidity (including our borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility), ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations. 31 Our revenue, profitability, cash flow, future growth and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital, as well as the carrying value of our properties, are substantially dependent on prevailing prices of oil and gas. Historically, the markets for oil and gas have been volatile, and those markets are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. It is impossible to predict future oil and gas price movements with certainty. Prices for oil and gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control. These factors include: • the level of consumer product demand; • the supply of natural gas due to increased natural gas production from resource plays; • overall economic conditions; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental relations, regulations and taxes; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • political conditions and unrest in oil producing regions; • the level and price of foreign imports of oil and liquefied natural gas; and • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree upon and maintain production constraints and oil price controls. Oil and gas drilling is a speculative activity and involves numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs that could adversely affect us. Our success will be largely dependent upon the success of our drilling program. Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be discovered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including: • unexpected or adverse drilling conditions; • elevated pressure or irregularities in geologic formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with governmental requirements; and • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs, crews and equipment. Because we identify the areas desirable for drilling in certain areas from 3-D seismic data covering large areas, we may not seek to acquire an option or lease rights until after the seismic data is analyzed or until the drilling locations are also identified; in those cases, we may not be permitted to lease, drill or produce natural gas or oil from those locations. Even if drilled, our completed wells may not produce reserves of oil or gas that are economically viable or that meet our earlier estimates of economically recoverable reserves. Our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activity within a particular project area may decline. Unsuccessful drilling activities could result in a significant decline in our production and revenues and materially harm our operations and financial position by reducing our available cash and resources. The potential for production decline rates for our wells could be greater than we expect. Because of the risks and uncertainties of our business, our future performance in exploration and drilling may not be comparable to our historical performance described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 32 We may not adhere to our proposed drilling schedule. Our final determination of whether to drill any scheduled or budgeted wells will be dependent on a number of factors, including: • the results of our exploration efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of the seismic data; • the availability of sufficient capital resources to us and the other participants for the drilling of the prospects; • the approval of the prospects by the other participants after additional data has been compiled; • economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and gas and the availability and prices of drilling rigs and crews; and • the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects. Although we have identified or budgeted for numerous drilling prospects, we may not be able to lease or drill those prospects within our expected time frame or at all. Wells that are currently part of our capital plan may be based on statistical results of drilling activities in other 3-D project areas that we believe are geologically similar rather than on analysis of seismic or other data in the prospect area, in which case actual drilling and results are likely to vary, possibly materially, from those statistical results. In addition, our drilling schedule may vary from our expectations because of future uncertainties. In addition, our ability to produce oil and gas may be significantly affected by the availability and prices of hydraulic fracturing equipment and crews. Instability in the global financial system may have impacts on our liquidity and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. Instability in the global financial system may have a material impact on our liquidity and our financial condition, and we may ultimately face major challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not continue to improve from their lows in early 2009. Our ability to access the capital markets or borrow money may be restricted or made more expensive at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an adverse impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions and on our ability to fund our operations and capital expenditures in the future. The economic situation could have an impact on our lenders or customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us, and on the liquidity of our operating partners, resulting in delays in operations or their failure to make required payments. Also, market conditions could have an impact on our oil and gas derivative instruments if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. Additionally, the current economic situation could lead to further reductions in the demand for oil and gas, or further reductions in the prices of oil and gas, or both, which could have a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. While the ultimate outcome and impact of the current financial situation cannot be predicted, it may have a material adverse effect on our future liquidity, results of operations and financial position. Our reserve data and estimated discounted future net cash flows are estimates based on assumptions that may be inaccurate and are based on existing economic and operating conditions that may change in the future. There are uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and gas reserves and their estimated value, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data in this annual report represents only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner and is based on assumptions that may vary considerably from actual results. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to upward or downward adjustment, and actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves likely will vary, possibly materially, from estimates. Additionally, there recently has been increased debate and disagreement over the classification of reserves, with particular focus on proved undeveloped reserves. In late 2008, the SEC adopted new rules regarding the classification of reserves. We adopted these oil and gas reserve estimation and disclosure requirements effective December 31, 2009 and, accordingly, the requirements became effective with the reserves reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. However, the interpretation of these rules and their applicability in different situations remain unclear in many respects. Changing interpretations of the classification standards or disagreements with our interpretations could cause us to write-down reserves. 33 As of December 31, 2011, approximately 59% of our proved reserves were proved undeveloped and proved nonproducing. Moreover, some of the producing wells included in our reserve reports as of December 31, 2011 had produced for a relatively short period of time as of that date. Because most of our reserve estimates are calculated using volumetric analysis, those estimates are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Volumetric analysis involves estimating the volume of a reservoir based on the net feet of pay of the structure and an estimation of the area covered by the structure based on seismic analysis. In addition, realization or recognition of our proved undeveloped reserves will depend on our development schedule and plans. Lack of reasonable certainty with respect to development plans for proved undeveloped reserves could cause the discontinuation of the classification of these reserves as proved. The discounted future net cash flows in this annual report are not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and gas reserves. As required by the current requirements for oil and gas reserve estimation and disclosures, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on the average of the sales price on the first day of each month in the applicable year, with costs determined as of the date of the estimate. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: • the actual prices we receive for oil and gas; • our actual operating costs in producing oil and gas; • the amount and timing of actual production; • supply and demand for oil and gas; • increases or decreases in consumption of oil and gas; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting requirements in compliance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 932, “Extractive Activities—Oil and Gas” may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general. We depend on successful exploration, development and acquisitions to maintain reserves and revenue in the future. In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Except to the extent we conduct successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Our future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent on our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. In addition, we are dependent on finding partners for our exploratory activity. To the extent that others in the industry do not have the financial resources or choose not to participate in our exploration activities, we will be adversely affected. We participate in oil and gas leases with third parties and these third parties may not be able to fulfill their commitments to our projects. We frequently own less than 100% of the working interest in the oil and gas leases on which we conduct operations, and other parties will own the remaining portion of the working interest. Financial risks are inherent in any operation where the cost of drilling, equipping, completing and operating wells is shared by more than one person. We could be held liable for joint activity obligations of the other working interest owners such as nonpayment of costs and liabilities arising from the actions of the other working interest owners. In addition, the current economic downturn, the credit crisis and the volatility in oil and gas prices may increase the likelihood that some of these working interest owners, particularly those that are smaller and less established, are not able to fulfill their joint activity obligations. Some of our project partners have experienced liquidity and cash flow problems. These problems may lead our partners to attempt to delay the pace of drilling or project development in order to preserve cash. A partner may be unable or unwilling to pay its share of project costs. In some cases, a partner may declare bankruptcy. In the event any of our project partners do not pay their share of such costs, we would likely have to pay those costs, and we may be unsuccessful in any efforts to recover these costs from our partners, which could materially adversely affect our financial position. 34 We have substantial capital requirements that, if not met, may hinder operations. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience substantial capital needs as a result of our active exploration, development and acquisition programs. We expect that additional external financing will be required in the future to fund our growth. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, and financing under our existing revolving credit facility, our Huntington Facility or new credit facilities may not be available in the future. Even if additional capital becomes available, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. As in the past, without additional capital resources, we may be forced to limit or defer our planned oil and gas exploration and development drilling program by releasing rigs or deferring fracturing, completion and hookup of the wells to pipelines and thereby adversely affect our production, cash flow, and the recoverability and ultimate value of our oil and gas properties, in turn negatively affecting our business, financial position and results of operations. The risks associated with our debt and the provisions of our debt agreements could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. We have demands on our cash resources, including interest expense, operating expenses and funding of our capital expenditures. Our level of debt, the demands on our cash resources and the provisions of the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility, the Huntington Facility, and the indentures governing our 4.375% convertible senior notes due 2028 (“Convertible Senior Notes”) and our 8.625% Senior Notes due 2018 (“Senior Notes”) may have adverse consequences on our operations and financial results, including: • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have lower debt service obligations and significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do; • limiting our financial flexibility, including our ability to borrow additional funds, pay dividends, make certain investments and issue equity on favorable terms or at all; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions; • increasing our interest expense on our variable rate borrowings if interest rates increase; • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to make debt service payments, which will reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities; • requiring us to modify our operations, including by curtailing portions of our drilling program, selling assets, reducing our capital expenditures, refinancing all or a portion of our existing debt or obtaining additional financing, which may be on unfavorable terms; and • making us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy. In addition, the provisions of our revolving credit facility, the Huntington Facility and our Senior Notes place restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries with respect to incurring additional indebtedness and liens, making dividends and other payments to shareholders, repurchasing or redeeming our common stock, redeeming our Senior Notes, making investments, acquisitions, mergers and asset dispositions, entering into hedging transactions and other matters. Our revolving credit facility and the Huntington Facility also require that specified financial ratios be maintained. Although we currently believe that all of these financial covenants can be met with the business plan that we have put in place, our business plan and our compliance with these covenants are based on a number of assumptions, the most important of which is relatively stable oil and natural gas prices at economically sustainable levels. If the price that we receive for our oil and natural gas production deteriorates significantly from current levels it could lead to lower revenues, cash flow and earnings, which in turn could lead to a default under certain financial covenants contained in our revolving credit facility, including the covenants related to working capital and the ratios described above. Pursuant to the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility, we are subject to financial ratio covenants which include, but are not limited to, the maintenance of the following financial covenants: (i) a Total Debt to EBITDA (each as defined in the credit agreement governing the revolving credit facility) ratio of not more than (a) 4.75 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2011 (b) 4.25 to 1.00 for fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2012 and (c) 4.00 to 1.00 for fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2012 and thereafter; (ii) a current ratio of not less than 1.0 to 1.0; (iii) a Senior Debt (as defined in the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility) to EBITDA ratio of not more than 2.50 to 1.00; and (iv) an EBITDA to Interest Expense (as defined in the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility) ratio of not less than 2.50 to 1.00. Because the calculations of the financial ratios are made as of certain dates, the financial ratios can fluctuate significantly from period to period as the amounts 35 outstanding under our revolving credit facility are dependent on the timing of cash flows related to operations, capital expenditures, sales of oil and gas properties and securities offerings. In order to provide a further margin of comfort with regard to these financial covenants, we may seek to further reduce our capital expenditure plan, sell additional non-strategic assets or opportunistically modify or increase our derivative instruments to the extent permitted under our revolving credit facility. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully execute any of these strategies, or if executed, that they will be sufficient to avoid a default under our revolving credit facility if a precipitous decline in oil or natural gas prices were to occur in the future. The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility and the borrowing base under the Huntington Facility may be reduced below the amount of borrowings outstanding under those facilities. Under the terms of our revolving credit facility, our borrowing base is subject to redeterminations at least semi-annually based in part on prevailing oil and gas prices. A negative adjustment could occur if the estimates of future prices used by the banks in calculating the borrowing base are significantly lower than those used in the last redetermination. The next redetermination of our borrowing base is scheduled to occur in May 2012. In addition, the portion of our borrowing base made available to us is subject to the terms and covenants of the revolving credit facility including, without limitation, compliance with the ratios and other financial covenants of such facility. In the event the amount outstanding under our revolving credit facility exceeds the redetermined borrowing base, we could be forced to repay a portion of our borrowings. We may not have sufficient funds to make any required repayment. If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, we may have to sell a portion of our assets. Under the terms of the Huntington Facility, availability under each of the term loan facility and the cost overrun facility are subject to borrowing bases that are generally based on consolidated cash flow and debt service projections for Carrizo UK. These borrowing bases are subject to redetermination at least semi-annually, with the next redetermination of the borrowing bases scheduled to occur in April 2012. In the event the outstanding principal balance under the Huntington Facility term loan facility and cost overrun facility exceeds the aggregate borrowing base for such facility at any time as a result of a redetermination of such facility’s borrowing base, Carrizo UK will be obligated to make a payment to cure the deficiency within five business days. Carrizo UK may not have sufficient funds to make any required repayment. If Carrizo UK does not have sufficient funds and is otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of its borrowings or arrange new financing, it may default under the Huntington Facility. We have in the past identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, and the identification of any material weaknesses in the future could affect our ability to ensure timely and accurate financial statements. At the end of several periods in recent years, our management identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board has defined a material weakness as a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors. Although we have taken actions to remediate the past material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, these measures may not be sufficient to ensure that our internal controls are effective in the future. In addition, our history of material weaknesses, any future material weaknesses, or any failure to effectively address a material weakness or other control deficiency or implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could limit our ability to obtain financing, harm our reputation, disrupt our ability to process key components of our results of operations and financial position timely and accurately and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations under rules of the SEC, NASDAQ and our various debt arrangements. We have limited experience drilling wells in the Niobrara Formation and in the Eagle Ford Shale and less information regarding reserves and decline rates in these shale formations than in some other areas of our operations. We have limited exploration and development experience in the Niobrara Formation and in the Eagle Ford Shale. We have participated in the drilling of 11 horizontal gross (7.6 net) wells in the Niobrara Formation and have participated in 35 horizontal gross (28 net) wells in the Eagle Ford Shale. Other operators in these areas have significantly more experience in the drilling of wells, including the drilling of horizontal wells. As a result, we have less information with respect to the ultimate recoverable reserves, the production decline rate and other matters relating to the exploration, drilling and development of the Niobrara Formation and the Eagle Ford Shale than we have in some other areas in which we operate. 36 We have limited experience drilling wells in the Marcellus Shale and less information regarding reserves and decline rates in the Marcellus Shale than in some other areas of our operations. We may face difficulties in securing and operating under authorizations and permits to drill and/or operate our Marcellus Shale wells. We have limited exploration and development experience in the Marcellus Shale. As of December 31, 2011, we have participated or are participating in the drilling of 50 gross (14.1 net) wells in the Marcellus Shale area. Other operators in the Appalachian Basin have significantly more experience in the drilling of Marcellus Shale wells, including the drilling of horizontal wells. As a result, we have less information with respect to the ultimate recoverable reserves and the production decline rate in the Marcellus Shale than we have in some other areas in which we operate. Moreover, the recent growth in exploration in the Marcellus Shale has drawn intense scrutiny from environmental and community interest groups, regulatory agencies and other governmental entities. As a result, we may face significant opposition to, or increased regulation of, our operations that may make it difficult or impossible to obtain permits and other needed authorizations to operate, result in operational delays, or otherwise make operating more costly or difficult than operating elsewhere. We have no experience drilling wells in the Utica Shale and less information regarding reserves and decline rates in this shale formation than in some other areas of our operations. We have no exploration experience and no development experience in the Utica Shale. We have not participated in the drilling of any wells in this area. Other operators in this area have significantly more experience in the drilling of wells, including the drilling of horizontal wells. As a result, we have less information with respect to the ultimate recoverable reserves, the production decline rate and other matters relating to the exploration, drilling and development of the Utica Shale than we have in some other areas in which we operate. If we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations or are unable to dispose of the water we use at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce gas commercially and in commercial quantities could be impaired. We use a substantial amount of water in our drilling operations. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or treat and dispose of water after drilling, could adversely impact our operations. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. Furthermore, future environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells could increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. We may not increase our acreage positions in areas with exposure to oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. If we are unable to increase our acreage positions in the Eagle Ford Shale, the Niobrara Formation or the Utica Shale, this may detract from our efforts to realize our growth strategy in crude oil and liquids-rich plays. Additionally, we may be unable to find or consummate other opportunities in these areas or in other areas with similar exposure to oil, condensate and natural gas liquids on similar terms or at all. A substantial portion of our reserves is located in an urban area, which could increase our costs of development and delay production. Our current primary core gas producing area is located in largely urban portions of the Barnett Shale, which could disproportionately expose us to operational and regulatory risk in that area. At December 31, 2011, approximately 70% of our proved reserves and approximately 79% of our then current production were located in the Barnett Shale. The core of the Barnett Shale is located in and around the greater Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas metropolitan area and much of our operations are within the city limits of various municipalities in that region, such as Arlington and Mansfield, Texas. In such urban or other populated areas, we may incur additional expenses, including expenses relating to mitigation of noise, odor and light that may be emitted in our operations, expenses related to the appearance of our facilities and limitations regarding when and how we can operate. The process of obtaining permits for drilling or for gathering lines to move our natural gas to market in such areas may be more time consuming and costly than in more rural areas. In addition, we may experience a higher rate of litigation or increased insurance and other costs related to our operations or facilities in such highly populated areas. 37 We face strong competition from other oil and gas companies. We encounter competition from other oil and gas companies in all areas of our operations, including the acquisition of exploratory prospects and proven properties. Our competitors include major integrated oil and gas companies and numerous independent oil and gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies that have been engaged in the oil and gas business much longer than we have and possess substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than we do. These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory projects and productive oil and gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may be able to expend greater resources on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to attaining success in the industry. Such competitors may also be in a better position to secure oilfield services and equipment on a timely basis or on favorable terms. We may not be able to conduct our operations, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions successfully in this highly competitive environment. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry. The oil and gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement those new technologies at substantial cost. In addition, other oil and gas companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures and implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete or if we are unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to various environmental risks and governmental regulations, including those relating to benzene emissions and hydraulic fracturing, and future regulations may be more stringent. Oil and gas operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and government regulations that may change from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, plug and abandonment bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and gas. Other federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating primarily to the protection of human health and the environment apply to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and gas operations, including drilling fluids and wastewater. In addition, we may incur costs arising out of property damage, including environmental damage caused by previous owners or operators of property we purchase or lease or relating to third party sites, or injuries to employees and other persons. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities and may be required to incur substantial remediation costs. We also are subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which cannot be predicted. Compliance with existing, new or modified laws and regulations could result in substantial costs, delay our operations or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Moreover, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently and such laws and regulations tend to become more stringent over time. Stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and negatively impact our production and operations. For example, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality has finalized revisions to certain air permit programs that significantly increase the air permitting requirements for new and certain existing oil and gas production and gathering sites for 23 counties in the Barnett Shale production area. The final rule established new emissions standards for a broad array of equipment at our drillsites, including engines. Additionally, on July 28, 2011, the EPA issued proposed rules that would subject all oil and gas operations (production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution) to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards (“NSPS”) and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (“NESHAPS”) programs. The EPA proposed rules also include NSPS standards for completions of hydraulically fractured gas wells. These standards include the reduced emission completion techniques developed in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR program along with the pit flaring of gas not sent to the gathering line. The standards would be applicable to newly drilled and fractured wells as well as existing wells that are refractured. Further, the proposed regulations under NESHAPS include maximum achievable control technology (“MACT”) standards for those glycol dehydrators and storage vessels at major sources of hazardous air pollutants not currently subject to MACT standards. We are currently evaluating the effect these proposed rules could have on our business. Final action on the proposed rules is expected no later than April 3, 2012. If these or other initiatives result in an increase in regulation, it could increase our costs or reduce our production, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. 38 Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of oil and gas wells, particularly in unconventional resource plays like the Barnett Shale, the Marcellus Shale, the Eagle Ford Shale and the Niobrara Formation. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate gas production. The U.S. Congress has considered legislation to subject hydraulic fracturing operations to federal regulation and to require the disclosure of chemicals used by us and others in the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. The EPA has recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act and is developing guidance documents related to this newly asserted regulatory authority. Additionally, the EPA has commenced a comprehensive research study to investigate the potential adverse environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing, including on water quality and public health. The initial EPA study results are expected to be available in late 2012 with final results available in 2014. Further, the EPA announced on October 20, 2011 that it is launching a study of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and currently plans to propose pretreatment regulations by 2014. Moreover, on November 23, 2011, the EPA announced that it was granting in part a petition to initial rulemaking under the Toxic Substances Control Act, relating to chemical substances and mixtures used in oil and gas exploration and production. The Department of Energy, at the direction of the President, is also studying hydraulic fracturing in order to provide recommendations and identify best practices and other steps to enhance companies’ safety and environmental performance of hydraulic fracturing. At the state level, the New York legislature has approved a temporary moratorium on drilling involving hydraulic fracturing and the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation has ceased issuing exploration and production drilling permits, pending completion of an environmental impact statement regarding hydraulic fracturing. Pennsylvania has adopted a variety of regulations since 2010 limiting how and where hydraulic fracturing can be performed in the state, including the adoption of upgraded well construction and casing standards, upgraded cement standards and new recordkeeping requirements. Some municipalities in the state have adopted or are considering adopting bans on drilling, including areas in which we operate, and the Governor of Pennsylvania has instituted a moratorium on leasing state forest land for new gas drilling. Further, in July 2011, the Pennsylvania Governor’s Marcellus Shale Advisory Commission released its report setting forth 96 recommendations on a variety of issues related to natural gas development in Pennsylvania. These recommendations are related to infrastructure; public health, safety, and environmental protection; local impact and emergency response; and economic and workforce development. The Marcellus Shale Advisory Commission made the most recommendations in the area of public health, safety and environmental protection, including doubling penalties authorized for violations of the Oil and Gas Act; increasing bonding requirements; authorizing a state agency to suspend, revoke, or deny permits on a quicker timeframe for violations or failure to correct violations; expanding a well operator’s presumed liability for impaired water quality; amending well stimulation and completion reporting requirements to require disclosure of hazardous chemicals used in fracturing; and other issues related to fracturing operations. Some or all of these recommendations have been incorporated into proposed legislation, will likely be acted upon and may result in the adoption of new laws and regulations governing shale gas development in the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania that could result in substantial changes in the way natural gas activities are conducted in the area. At the international level, the U.K. and EU Parliaments have each in the past discussed implementing a drilling moratorium in the U.K. North Sea. We use hydraulic fracturing extensively and any increased federal, state, local, foreign or international regulation of hydraulic fracturing or offshore drilling, including legislation and regulation in the states of New York and Pennsylvania, could reduce the volumes of oil and gas that we can economically recover, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. President Obama’s 2012 Fiscal Year Budget proposals, and certain legislation introduced in the U.S. Congress, if enacted into law, would make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. These or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could defer or eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial position and results of operations. Climate change and climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives could result in increased operating costs and decreased demand for the oil and gas that we produce. There is increasing attention in the United States and worldwide being paid to the issue of climate change and the contributing effect of GHG emissions. The EPA has issued a final rule to address permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources. In addition, the U.S. Congress has considered a number of legislative proposals to restrict GHG emissions and more than 20 states, either individually or as part of regional initiatives, have begun taking actions to control and/or reduce GHG emissions. While it is not possible at this time to predict how regulation that may be enacted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing oil and gas exploration in the areas of 39 the United States or the North Sea in which we operate could materially and adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities or imposing materially increased costs. In addition, existing or new laws, regulations or treaties (including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources) could have a negative impact on our business if such incentives reduce demand for natural gas. See “Item 1. Business—Additional Oil and Gas Disclosures—Regulation; Global Climate Change” for additional information. Our onshore and offshore operations are subject to various operating and other casualty risks that could result in liability exposure or the loss of production and revenues. The oil and gas business involves operating hazards such as: • well blowouts; • mechanical failures; • explosions; • pipe or cement failures and casing collapses, which could release natural gas, oil, drilling fluids or hydraulic fracturing fluids; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids; • fires; • geologic formations with abnormal pressures; • handling and disposing of materials, including drilling fluids and hydraulic fracturing fluids; • pipeline ruptures or spills; • releases of toxic gases; and • other environmental hazards and risks. Any of these hazards and risks can result in the loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution, personal injury claims and other damage to our properties and the property of others. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks in addition to the hazards described above, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from adverse weather conditions. Additionally, the occurrence of other events such as blowouts and oil spills in marine environments can make containment and remediation more difficult and costly than on land. These conditions can and have caused substantial damage to facilities and interrupted production. Our operations in the U.K. North Sea are dependent upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and processing facilities and a floating production storage and offloading vessel. Any significant change affecting these infrastructure facilities or vessel could materially harm our business. We deliver crude oil and natural gas through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own. These facilities or vessel may be temporarily unavailable due to adverse weather conditions or operational issues or may not be available to us in the future. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities or experience reductions in revenue that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for our exploration and development programs and acquisitions, or result in the loss of properties. Additionally, offshore operations generally involve increased costs and more expansive regulatory requirements as compared to onshore operations. We may not have enough insurance to cover all of the risks we face. We maintain insurance against losses and liabilities in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that management believes to be prudent; however, insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. We do not carry business interruption insurance. We may elect not to carry insurance if management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, losses could occur for uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. We cannot insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or that any particular types of coverage will be available. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 40 We conduct a substantial portion of our operations through joint ventures, which subject us to additional risks that could have a material adverse effect on the success of these operations, our financial position and our results of operations. We conduct a substantial portion of our operations through joint ventures with third parties, including Avista and its affiliates, GAIL, Reliance and an affiliate of Sumitomo Corporation. We may also enter into other joint venture arrangements in the future. These third parties may have obligations that are important to the success of the joint venture, such as the obligation to pay substantial carried costs pertaining to the joint venture and to pay their share of capital and other costs of the joint venture. The performance of these third party obligations, including the ability of the third parties to satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, is outside our control. If these parties do not satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, our business may be adversely affected. Our joint venture arrangements may involve risks not otherwise present when exploring and developing properties directly, including, for example: • our joint venture partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions; • our joint venture partners may not pay their share of the joint venture’s obligations, leaving us liable for their shares of joint venture liabilities; • we may incur liabilities as a result of an action taken by our joint venture partners; • our joint venture partners may be in a position to take actions contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives; and • disputes between us and our joint venture partners may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses. The risks described above or the failure to continue our joint ventures or to resolve disagreements with our joint venture partners could adversely affect our ability to transact the business that is the subject of such joint venture, which would in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our joint venture with Reliance contemplates that we will make significant capital expenditures and subjects us to certain legal and financial terms that could adversely affect us. In 2010, we completed the sale to Reliance of 20% of our interests in oil and gas properties in parts of Pennsylvania in the Marcellus Shale for approximately $13.1 million in cash and a carry commitment by Reliance to pay 75% of certain of our future development costs up to approximately $52.0 million. At that time, we entered into agreements with Reliance to form a new joint venture with respect to the interests being purchased by Reliance from us and ACP II such that we generally retained a 40% working interest in the acreage and Reliance generally owns a 60% working interest. The agreements under which we formed this joint venture subject us to various risks, limit the actions we may take with respect to our properties and require us to grant rights to Reliance that could limit our ability to benefit fully from future positive developments. The joint venture requires us to make significant capital expenditures. If we do not timely meet our financial commitments or otherwise do not comply with our joint venture agreements, our rights to participate, exercise operator rights or otherwise influence or benefit from the joint venture will be adversely affected. Reliance’s obligation to fund the carry commitment expires with respect to any portion of the carry commitment not utilized by September 10, 2013, subject to certain extensions. We have agreed to various restrictions on our ability to transfer our properties covered by the joint venture. Additionally, following the expiration of the carry commitment, we are subject to a mutual right of first offer on direct and indirect property transfers for the remainder of a ten-year development period (through September 2020), subject to specified exceptions. We have also granted an option to Reliance to purchase a 60% (as adjusted over time) share of acreage in the area of mutual interest purchased directly or indirectly by us after the closing. This option, which covers substantially all of Pennsylvania, is exercisable at our cost plus, in the case of direct property sales, a specified premium, and is subject to specified exceptions. We serve as operator of the properties covered by this joint venture, with Reliance having the right to assume operatorship of 60% of the undeveloped acreage in portions of central Pennsylvania beginning as early as September 2011 and extending through September 2014, to purchase all of our 40% interest in such acreage at a specified price. Operations under the joint 41 venture will generally be required to conform to a budget approved by an operating committee that includes representatives of both parties, subject to exceptions, including those for sole risk operations and in the event of defaults by the parties. The parties have also generally agreed until 2013 to forego the ability to conduct sole risk operations and to certain other limits to such operations thereafter. Reliance has substantially greater financial resources than we have and we may not be able to secure the funding necessary to participate in operations Reliance proposes, thereby reducing our ability to benefit from the joint venture. We cannot control the activities on properties we do not operate. We do not operate all of the properties in which we have an interest. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, operations of these properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements or an operator’s failure to act in ways that are in our best interests could reduce our production and revenues or could create liability for us for the operator’s failure to properly maintain the well and facilities and to adhere to applicable safety and environmental standards. With respect to properties that we do not operate: • the operator could refuse to initiate exploration or development projects; • if we proceed with any of those projects the operator has refused to initiate, we may not receive any funding from the operator with respect to that project; • the operator may initiate exploration or development projects on a different schedule than we would prefer; • the operator may propose greater capital expenditures than we wish, including expenditures to drill more wells or build more facilities on a project than we have funds for, which may mean that we cannot participate in those projects or participate in a substantial amount of the revenues from those projects; and • the operator may not have sufficient expertise or resources. Any of these events could significantly and adversely affect our anticipated exploration and development activities. If our access to markets is restricted, it could negatively impact our production, our income and ultimately our ability to retain our leases. Our ability to sell oil and natural gas and/or receive market prices for our oil and natural gas may be adversely affected by pipeline and gathering system capacity constraints. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. Our productive properties may be located in areas with limited or no access to pipelines, thereby necessitating delivery by other means, such as trucking, or requiring compression facilities. Such restrictions on our ability to sell our oil or gas may have several adverse effects, including higher transportation costs, fewer potential purchasers (thereby potentially resulting in a lower selling price) or, in the event we were unable to market and sustain production from a particular lease for an extended time, possibly causing us to lose a lease due to lack of production. There is currently only limited pipeline and gathering system capacity in the Marcellus Shale. Historically, we have generally delivered our oil and gas production through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own under interruptible or short-term transportation agreements. Under the interruptible transportation agreements, the transportation of our oil and gas production may be interrupted due to capacity constraints on the applicable system, for maintenance or repair of the system, or for other reasons as dictated by the particular agreements. Due to the lack of available pipeline capacity in the Eagle Ford Shale and the Marcellus Shale, we have entered into firm transportation agreements for a portion of our production in the Eagle Ford Shale and Marcellus Shale in order to assure our ability, and that of our purchasers, to successfully market the oil and gas that we produce. We may also enter into firm transportation arrangements for additional production in the future. These firm transportation agreements may be more costly than interruptible or short-term transportation agreements. If production in the Marcellus Shale by oil and gas companies continues to expand, the amount of natural gas being produced by us and others could exceed the capacity of the various gathering and intrastate or interstate transportation pipelines currently available in these areas. If this occurs, it will be necessary for new pipelines and gathering systems to be built. Because of the current economic 42 climate, certain pipeline projects that are planned for the Marcellus Shale may not occur for lack of financing. In addition, capital constraints could limit our ability to build intrastate gathering systems necessary to transport our gas to interstate pipelines. In such event, we might have to shut in our wells awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity and/or sell natural gas production at significantly lower prices than those we currently project, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. A portion of our oil and gas production in any region may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents, loss of pipeline or gathering system access, field labor issues or strikes, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could temporarily adversely affect our cash flow. Our future acquisitions may yield revenues or production that varies significantly from our projections. In acquiring producing properties, we assess the recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, operating costs, potential liabilities and other factors relating to the properties. Our assessments are necessarily inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. Our review of a subject property in connection with our acquisition assessment will not reveal all existing or potential problems or permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the property to assess fully its deficiencies and capabilities. We may not inspect every well, and we may not be able to observe structural and environmental problems even when we do inspect a well. If problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of those problems. Any acquisition of property interests may not be economically successful, and unsuccessful acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations. Our business may suffer if we lose key personnel. We depend to a large extent on the services of certain key management personnel, including our executive officers and other key employees, the loss of any of whom could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have entered into employment agreements with many of our key employees as a way to assist in retaining their services and motivating their performance. We do not maintain key-man life insurance with respect to any of our employees. Our success will also be dependent on our ability to continue to employ and retain skilled technical personnel. We may experience difficulty in achieving and managing future growth. We have experienced growth in the past primarily through the expansion of our drilling program. Future growth may place strains on our financial, technical, operational and administrative resources and cause us to rely more on project partners and independent contractors, possibly negatively affecting our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to grow will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to obtain leases or options on properties, including those for which we have 3-D seismic data; • our ability to acquire additional 3-D seismic data; • our ability to identify and acquire new exploratory prospects; • our ability to develop existing prospects; • our ability to continue to retain and attract skilled personnel; • our ability to maintain or enter into new relationships with project partners and independent contractors; • the results of our drilling program; • hydrocarbon prices; and • our access to capital. We may not be successful in upgrading our technical, operations and administrative resources or in increasing our ability to internally provide certain of the services currently provided by outside sources, and we may not be able to maintain or enter into new relationships with project partners and independent contractors. Our inability to achieve or manage growth may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. 43 We may continue to enter into derivative transactions to manage the price risks associated with our production. Our derivative transactions may result in our making cash payments or prevent us from benefiting from increases in prices for oil and gas. Because oil and gas prices are unstable, we periodically enter into price-risk-management transactions such as fixed-rate swaps, costless collars, puts, calls and basis differential swaps to reduce our exposure to price declines associated with a portion of our oil and gas production and thereby to achieve a more predictable cash flow. The use of these arrangements limits our ability to benefit from increases in the prices of oil and gas. Our derivative arrangements may apply to only a portion of our production, thereby providing only partial protection against declines in oil and gas prices. These arrangements may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which production is less than expected, our customers fail to purchase contracted quantities of oil and gas or a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or gas prices. In addition, the counterparties under our derivatives contracts may fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us. Periods of high demand for field services and equipment and the ability of suppliers to meet that demand may limit our ability to drill and produce our oil and gas properties. During periods when oil and gas prices are relatively high, well service providers and related equipment and personnel may be in short supply. These shortages can cause escalating prices, delays in drilling and other exploration activities and the possibility of poor services coupled with potential damage to downhole reservoirs and personnel injuries. Such pressures may increase the actual cost of services, extend the time to secure such services and add costs for damages due to any accidents sustained from the overuse of equipment and inexperienced personnel. We may record impairments of oil and gas properties that would reduce our shareholders’ equity. We use the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. Accordingly, we capitalize all productive and nonproductive costs directly associated with property acquisition, exploration and development activities to cost centers established on a country-by-country basis. Under the full cost method, the capitalized cost of oil and gas properties, less accumulated amortization and related deferred income taxes may not exceed the “cost center ceiling” which is equal to the sum of the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves, less estimated future expenditures to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves computed using a discount factor of 10%, plus the costs of properties not subject to amortization, plus the lower of the cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, less related income tax effects. If the net capitalized costs exceed the cost center ceiling, we recognize the excess as an impairment of oil and gas properties. This impairment does not impact cash flows from operating activities but does reduce earnings and our shareholders’ equity. The risk that we will be required to recognize impairments of our oil and gas properties increases during periods of low oil and/or gas prices. In addition, impairments would occur if we were to experience sufficient downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or the present value of estimated future net revenues, as further discussed under “Our reserve data and estimated discounted future net cash flows are estimates based on assumptions that may be inaccurate and are based on existing economic and operating conditions that may change in the future.” An impairment recognized in one period may not be reversed in a subsequent period even if higher oil and gas prices increase the cost center ceiling applicable to the subsequent period. We recorded non-cash impairments of oil and gas properties at the end of the first quarter of 2009 and the end of 2009 with respect to our U.S. cost center and at the end of the second quarter of 2010 with respect to our U.K. cost center. We could incur additional impairments of oil and gas properties in the future, particularly as a result of a decline in oil and/or gas prices. We could lose our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards that we have accumulated over the years. Our ability to utilize U.S. net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards to reduce future taxable income is subject to various limitations under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). The utilization of such carryforwards may be limited upon the occurrence of certain ownership changes, including the purchase or sale of our stock by 5% shareholders and our offering of stock during any three-year period resulting in an aggregate change of more than 50% in our beneficial ownership. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 of the Code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of our taxable income that can be offset by these carryforwards. The limitation is generally equal to the product of (a) the fair market value of our equity multiplied by (b) a percentage approximately equivalent to the yield on long-term tax exempt bonds during the month in which an ownership change occurs. In addition, the limitation is increased if there are recognized built-in gains during any post-change year, but only to the extent of any net unrealized built-in gains inherent in the assets sold. As of December 31, 2011, we believe an ownership change occurred in 44 February 2005 with an annual limitation of approximately $12.6 million. Moreover, based on our knowledge of our shareholder ownership, we do not believe that an ownership change has occurred since February 2005 that would further limit our ability to utilize our U.S. NOLs. Because our pre-change NOLs are approximately $9.8 million, we do not believe we have a Section 382 limitation on our ability to utilize our U.S. NOL carryforwards as of December 31, 2011. Future equity transactions involving us or our 5% shareholders (including, potentially, relatively small transactions and transactions beyond our control) could cause further ownership changes and therefore a limitation on the annual utilization of our U.S. NOLs. Enactment of proposed impact fees on natural gas wells could adversely impact our results of operations and the economic viability of exploiting natural gas drilling and production opportunities in Pennsylvania. Legislation has been enacted in Pennsylvania, that authorizes counties to impose fees on certain natural gas wells in Pennsylvania. If a county elects to impose a fee, the fee will apply to any “unconventional gas well,” which is generally defined as a well using hydraulic fracture treatments or multilateral well bores. Any county that elects not to impose the fee can be overruled by the municipalities within that county. The fee would be imposed over a fifteen year period, starting with the year the well is actually drilled and declining thereafter, and is based on natural gas prices and the Consumer Price Index. Unconventional gas wells drilled before the fee is imposed would still be subject to the fee and, for purposes of calculating the amount of the fee, will be considered to have been drilled in the calendar year prior to the imposition of the fee. A substantial portion of our Marcellus Shale acreage and a portion of our Utica Shale acreage is located in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. To the extent such fees are ultimately enacted by counties in which we now or may in the future operate, or if Pennsylvania adopts severance taxes or additional fees, such actions could adversely impact our results of operations and the economic viability of exploiting natural gas drilling and production opportunities in Pennsylvania. We may incur losses as a result of title deficiencies. We purchase working and revenue interests in the oil and gas leasehold interests upon which we will perform our exploration activities from third parties or directly from the mineral fee owners. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Title insurance covering mineral leaseholds is not generally available and, in all instances, we forego the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest to be placed under lease or already placed under lease until the drilling block is assembled and ready to be drilled. Even then, particularly in urban settings, the cost of performing detailed title work can be expensive. We may choose to forgo detailed title examination by title lawyers on a portion of the mineral leases that we place in a drilling unit or conduct less title work than we have traditionally performed. As is customary in our industry, we generally rely upon the judgment of oil and gas lease brokers or independent landmen who perform the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental offices and abstract facilities before attempting to acquire or place under lease a specific mineral interest and before drilling a well on a leased tract. We, in some cases, perform curative work to correct deficiencies in the marketability or adequacy of the title to us. The work might include obtaining affidavits of heirship or causing an estate to be administered. In cases involving more serious title problems, the amount paid for affected oil and gas leases can be generally lost, and the target area can become undrillable. The failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property. We have risks associated with our foreign operations. We currently have international activities and we continue to evaluate and pursue new opportunities for international expansion in select areas. Ownership of property interests and production operations in areas outside the United States is subject to the various risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks may include: • currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; • loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of expropriation, nationalization, war or insurrection; • increases in taxes and governmental royalties; • renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities and quasi-governmental agencies; • changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies; • labor problems; and 45 • other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations. Our international operations also may be adversely affected by the laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment. In addition, if a dispute arises with respect to our foreign operations, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States. A portion of our operations is exposed to the additional risk of tropical weather disturbances. A portion of our production and reserves is located onshore South Louisiana and Texas. Operations in this area are subject to tropical weather disturbances. Some of these disturbances can be severe enough to cause substantial damage to facilities and possibly interrupt production. For example, some of our wells in the Gulf Coast were shut in following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005 and Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. See “We may not have enough insurance to cover all of the risks we face.” The threat and impact of terrorist attacks, cyber attacks or similar hostilities may adversely impact our operations. We cannot assess the extent of either the threat or the potential impact of future terrorist attacks on the energy industry in general, and on us in particular, either in the short-term or in the long-term. Uncertainty surrounding such hostilities may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines and gathering systems, production facilities, processing plants and refineries, could be targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror, a cyber attack or electronic security breach, or an act of war. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 