ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully review and consider the risks described below. If any of the risks described below should occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, cash flows, liquidity, results of operations, and our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose some or all of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, also may become important factors that adversely impact us. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking information, the risk factors set forth below are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. Risks Related to Our Industry The business in which we engage is complex and heavily regulated, and changes in the regulatory environment affecting our business, including the enactment of the Federal Dodd-Frank Act, or Dodd Frank, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, and may be subject to judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions. These laws, regulations and judicial and administrative decisions include those pertaining to: real estate settlement procedures; fair lending; fair credit reporting; truth in lending; fair debt collection; compliance with net worth and financial statement delivery requirements; compliance with federal and state disclosure and licensing requirements; the establishment of maximum interest rates, finance charges and other charges; secured transactions; collection, foreclosure, repossession and claims-handling procedures; other trade practices and privacy regulations providing for the use and safeguarding of non-public personal financial information of borrowers and guidance on non-traditional mortgage loans issued by the federal financial regulatory agencies. By agreement with some of our customers, we also are subject to additional requirements that our customers may impose. As an example of how unforeseen circumstances may result in regulatory or other action, which may, in turn, affect our industry, during 2010, several of our mortgage servicing competitors announced the suspension of foreclosure proceedings in various judicial foreclosure states due to concerns associated with the preparation and execution of affidavits used in connection with foreclosure proceedings in those states. At least one of those competitors announced the temporary suspension of foreclosure proceedings in all 50 states, not just judicial foreclosure states. Due in part to these announcements, regulators and attorneys general of certain states began requesting information as to the foreclosure processes and procedures of some of most mortgage servicers, including the Company. In addition, several rating agencies have made similar inquiries. We believe that inquiries directed at some of our competitors have resulted in more in-depth investigations of, and legal proceedings against such competitors, by attorneys general of certain states and the U.S. Department of Justice. Moreover, some title insurance companies have announced the suspension of the issuance of title insurance policies on properties that have been foreclosed upon by certain firms. We have reviewed our processes and procedures utilizing both internal personnel and third party consultants and, to date, have not identified any material non-compliance with existing mortgage processing laws and regulations. We expect to continue to perform such audits in the future. To date, we have received inquiries about our practices from at least one state licensing authority and two rating agencies, and we have responded to such inquiries without further inquiry. We cannot be certain, however, that lawyers and other service providers retained by the Company to process mortgage foreclosures have complied in all respects with required processes in their respective jurisdictions. It is not known at this time whether any new laws or regulations affecting the mortgage foreclosure process will be put into place by federal, state or local governmental authorities, nor is it currently possible to determine what, if any, effects they may have on our business. Should such laws or regulations be enacted, there could be an adverse affect to the Company’s results of operations. 9 While we are continuing to monitor these and other developments, these and other developments could result in new legislation and regulations that could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our business. Heightened federal or state regulation and oversight of our mortgage servicing activities, increased costs and potential litigation associated with our mortgage servicing business and foreclosure related activities, could reduce the ultimate proceeds received on the resale of foreclosed properties, particularly if real estate values continue to decline. The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act has impacted our business and may continue to do so in ways that we cannot predict until such time as rules and regulations related thereto are enacted. On July 21, 2010, Dodd-Frank was signed into law for the express purpose of further regulating the financial services industry, including mortgage origination, sales, and securitization. Certain provisions of Dodd-Frank may adversely impact the operation and practices of the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac. We believe that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac hold potential for growth opportunities for our business and we are unable to determine what impact the applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may have on that potential. Dodd-Frank also established an independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or Bureau, to enforce laws involving consumer financial products and services, including mortgage finance. The Bureau is empowered with examination and enforcement authority. Dodd-Frank also establishes new standards and practices for mortgage originators, another potential growth area for our business, including determining prospective borrower’s abilities to repay their mortgages, removing incentives for higher cost mortgages, prohibiting prepayment penalties for non-qualified mortgages, prohibiting mandatory arbitration clauses, requiring additional disclosures to potential borrowers and restricting the fees that mortgage originators may collect. In addition, our ability to enter into asset-backed securities transactions in the future may be impacted by Dodd-Frank and other proposed reforms related thereto, the effect of which on the asset-backed securities market is currently uncertain. While we continue to evaluate all aspects of Dodd-Frank, such legislation and the regulations promulgated thereunder could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our businesses, result in heightened federal regulation and oversight of our business activities, and result in increased costs and potential litigation associated with our business activities. Our failure to comply with the laws, rules or regulations to which we are subject, whether actual or alleged, would expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may be subject to liability for potential violations of predatory lending and/or servicing laws, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. Various federal, state and local laws have been enacted that are designed to discourage predatory lending and servicing practices. The federal Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994, or HOEPA, prohibits inclusion of certain provisions in residential loans that have mortgage rates or origination costs in excess of prescribed levels and requires that borrowers be given certain disclosures prior to origination. Some states have enacted, or may enact, similar laws or regulations, which in some cases impose restrictions and requirements greater than those in HOEPA. In addition, under the anti-predatory lending laws of some states, the origination of certain residential loans, including loans that are not classified as “high cost” loans under applicable law, must satisfy a net tangible benefits test with respect to the related borrower. This test may be highly subjective and open to interpretation. As a result, a court may determine that a residential loan, for example, does not meet the test even if the related originator reasonably believed that the test was satisfied. Failure of residential loan originators or servicers to comply with these laws, to the extent any of their residential loans are or become part of our mortgaged-related assets, could subject us, as an originator or servicer, in the case of originated or owned loans, or as an assignee or purchaser, in the case of acquired loans, to monetary penalties and could result in the borrowers rescinding the affected residential loans. Lawsuits have been brought in various states making claims against originators, servicers, assignees and purchasers of high cost loans for violations of state law. Named defendants in these cases have included numerous participants within the 10 secondary mortgage market. If our loans are found to have been originated in violation of predatory or abusive lending laws, we could incur losses, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. The expanding body of federal, state and local regulations and/or the licensing of loan servicing, collections or other aspects of our business, may increase the cost of compliance and the risks of noncompliance. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and is subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on a substantial portion of our operations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years. Some individual municipalities have begun to enact laws that restrict loan servicing activities, including delaying or preventing foreclosures or forcing the modification of certain mortgages. Further, federal legislation recently has been proposed which, among other things, also could hinder the ability of a servicer to foreclose promptly on defaulted residential loans or would permit limited assignee liability for certain violations in the residential loan origination process, and which could result in our being held responsible for violations in the residential loan origination process. In addition, the U.S. government through the Federal Housing Administration, or FHA, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, and the U.S. Department of Treasury, or the Treasury, has commenced or proposed implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage foreclosures, such as the Hope for Homeowners program (permitting certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into FHA insured loans), Home Affordability Modification Program, or HAMP, and the Secured Lien Program (involving, among other things, the modification of first-lien and second-lien mortgages to reduce the principal amount or the interest rate of loans or to extend the payment terms). Marix is a HAMP approved servicer and would be affected by any changes to HAMP rules. Moreover, certain mortgage lenders and servicers have voluntarily, or as part of settlements with law enforcement authorities, established loan-modification programs relating to loans they hold or service. These loan-modification programs, future federal, state and local legislative or regulatory actions that result in modification of outstanding loans acquired by us, as well as changes in the requirements to qualify for refinancing with or selling to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, or the Government National Mortgage Association, or Ginnie Mae, may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, such residential mortgage loans and the potential growth of our business. Furthermore, if regulators impose new or more restrictive requirements, we may incur additional significant costs to comply with such requirements, which could further adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could possibly lead to civil and criminal liability; loss of licensure; damage to our reputation in the industry; fines and penalties and litigation, including class action lawsuits; or administrative enforcement actions. Any of these outcomes could harm our results of operations or financial condition. We are unable to predict whether federal, state or local authorities will enact laws, rules or regulations that will require changes in our practices in the future and whether any such changes could adversely affect our cost of doing business and profitability. The Financial Reform Plan could have an adverse effect on our operations. On June 17, 2009, the U.S. Treasury released the Obama administration’s framework for financial regulatory reform, or the Financial Reform Plan. The Reform Plan proposes a comprehensive set of legislative and regulatory reforms aimed at promoting robust supervision and regulation of financial firms, establishing comprehensive supervision of financial markets, protecting consumers and investors from financial abuse, providing the government with the tools it needs to manage financial crises, and raising international regulatory standards and improving international cooperation. Implementation of the Financial Reform Plan, including changes to the manner in which financial institutions (including government sponsored entities, or GSEs, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac), financial products, and financial markets operate and are regulated and in the accounting standards that govern them, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 11 As of March 1, 2011, no legislation has been enacted, no regulations have been promulgated, and no accounting standards have been altered in response to the Financial Reform Plan that would materially effect our operations. However, we expect that the Financial Reform Plan may result in new legislation, regulation, and accounting standards in the future, possibly including legislation, regulation, or standards that go beyond the scope of, or differ materially from, the proposals set forth in the Financial Reform Plan. Any new legislation, regulation, or standards affecting financial institutions, financial products, or financial markets could subject us to greater regulatory scrutiny, make it more expensive to conduct our business, increase competition, limit our ability to expand our business, or have an adverse effect on our results of operations, possibly materially. Difficult conditions in the mortgage and real estate markets, financial markets and the economy generally may cause us to incur losses on our portfolio or otherwise to be unsuccessful in our business strategies. A prolonged economic slowdown, recession, period of declining real estate values or sustained high unemployment could materially and adversely affect us. The implementation of our business strategies may be materially affected by the continuation of current conditions in the mortgage and housing markets, the financial markets and the economy generally. Continuing concerns over unemployment, inflation, energy and health care costs, geopolitical issues, including political unrest in the Middle East, the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage market and the real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and markets going forward. The risks associated with our current investment portfolio and any investments we may make will be more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession, especially if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values or sustained unemployment. A weakening economy, high unemployment and declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that borrowers will default on their debt service obligations to us. In this event we may incur losses on our investment portfolio because the value of any collateral we foreclose upon may be insufficient to cover the full amount of our investment or may take a significant amount of time to realize. In addition, under such conditions, our access to capital will generally be more limited, if available at all, and more expensive. Any period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect the net interest income generated from our portfolio and our ability to make and finance future investments, which would materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, the aforementioned circumstance may adversely affect our third party servicing, particularly that performed by Marix, and may further adversely affect or prolong our ability to bring Marix into profitability. Continued weakness in the mortgage and residential real estate markets may hinder our ability to acquire assets and implement our growth plans and could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition, including causing credit and market value losses related to our holdings that could cause us to take charges and/or add to our allowance for loan losses in amounts that may be material. The residential mortgage market in the United States has experienced significant levels of defaults, credit losses, and liquidity instability. These factors have impacted investor perception of the risks associated with the residential loans that we own and in which we intend to make further investments. Continued or increased deterioration in the residential loan market may adversely affect the performance and market value of our investments. Deterioration in home prices or the value of our portfolio could require us to take charges, or add to our allowance for loan losses, either or both of which may be material. The residential loan market also has been severely affected by changes in the lending landscape and there is no assurance that these conditions have stabilized or will not worsen. While limitations on financing initially was felt in the less-than-prime mortgage market, it appears that liquidity issues now also affect prime and Alt-A lending, with the curtailment of many product types. This has an adverse impact on new demand for homes, which continues to compress home ownership rates and have a negative impact on future home price performance. There is a strong correlation between home price growth 12 rates and residential loan delinquencies. Market deterioration has caused us to expect increased credit losses related to our holdings and to sell some foreclosed real estate assets at a loss. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be successful in achieving our growth objectives. Our success in achieving our growth objectives will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the availability of attractive risk-adjusted investment opportunities in our target assets, identifying and consummating these investments on favorable terms, our ability to access financing and capital on favorable terms and conditions in the financial markets, our ability to successfully service the loans that we acquire, and our ability to effect strategic alliances. In addition, we face substantial competition for attractive investment opportunities, significant demands on our operational, financial, accounting, information technology and telecommunications systems and legal resources, and increased costs and expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make investments with attractive risk-adjusted returns or effectively manage and service any such portfolio of residential loan investments. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying and consummating sufficient investments in residential loans on attractive terms, or at all to sustain or grow our portfolio business. As mortgages in our portfolios are paid off in the ordinary course, the assets in our portfolios run off at a rate of approximately $100 million of principal balance per year, depending upon pre-payment speeds in any given year. In order to sustain our current business we must acquire an equal amount of loans to offset the runoff; and to grow our business we must acquire more than the runoff. We have utilized the proceeds of various capital raises to acquire, and expect that we will continue to acquire, residential loans from various sources, including portfolios of mortgage loans from banks, third party originators and other owners of such assets. In 2010 we acquired approximately $100 million of loans (unpaid principle balance) from various sources. We also may participate in programs established by the U.S. government, such as the Legacy Loans Program, and liquidations by the FDIC of portfolios of mortgage loans of failed depository institutions however, there can be no assurance that, in the future, we will be able to acquire sufficient residential loans from these or any sources on attractive terms, or at all, to offset the runoff or to grow our business. In particular, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to raise capital to acquire loans or that such capital raises will not be dilutive to our stockholders. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the FDIC will continue to liquidate the assets of failed depository institutions on terms that may be attractive, or at all, or that we will be able to acquire any residential loans in liquidations by the FDIC. Furthermore, we may not be eligible to participate in programs established by the U.S. government or, if we are eligible, that we will be able to utilize such programs successfully or at all. To the extent that we are unable to successfully identify and consummate investments in residential loans from these and other sources, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Failure to procure adequate capital and funding on favorable terms, or at all, would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of shares of our common stock and our ability to distribute dividends to stockholders. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations and to grow our business. We generally are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income (excluding net capital gains) for each tax year in order to qualify as a REIT. As a result, a limited amount of retained earnings are available to execute our growth strategies. It is possible that if we achieve anticipated growth levels and/or if significant additional opportunities to expand our business operations are presented, we may require additional funds in order to finance such growth. Additional financing for growth may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. In the future we may fund our investments through a variety of means, including additional equity issuances, as well as various forms of financing such as repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities, credit facilities (including term loans and revolving facilities), structured financing arrangements, securitizations, term collateralized mortgage obligations, or CMOs, and other forms of term 13 debt, in addition to transaction or asset-specific financing arrangements. Our access to financing and capital will depend upon a number of factors over which we may have limited or no control, including: • general market conditions; • the market’s perception of our business and growth potential; • our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; • the market price of the shares of our common stock; and • the market’s view of the quality of our assets. The current weakness in the mortgage sector, and the current situation in the broader capital and credit markets, have adversely affected many potential lenders. Current market conditions have adversely affected the cost and availability of financing from many of these sources, and from individual providers, to different degrees. Some sources generally are unavailable, while others are available only at a high cost. As a result, potential lenders may be unwilling or unable to provide us with financing or may tighten their lending standards, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms if at all. These lenders could require additional collateral and other terms and costs that could increase our financing costs and reduce our profitability. As a result of these factors, the execution of our investment strategy may be dictated by the cost and availability of funding from various sources. We may have to rely more heavily on additional equity issuances, which may be dilutive to our stockholders, or on less efficient forms of debt financing that require a larger portion of our cash flow from operations, thereby reducing funds available for operations, future business opportunities, cash distributions to our stockholders and other purposes. We cannot provide assurance that we will have access to such equity or debt capital on favorable terms at desired times, or at all, which may cause us to curtail our investment activities and which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. There may be risks associated with the growth of our business, including risks that third parties with which we contract may not perform as expected. Our acquisition of Marix was intended, in part, to aid us in expanding our geographic scope beyond our historical southeastern U.S. footprint, as well as to broaden our business model to include the servicing of third party loans, mortgage outreach programs and other mortgage related activities that we do not currently perform. In addition, we have, and expect that we will continue to purchase, residential loans outside of our southeastern U.S. footprint, either as a targeted acquisition or as an element of a more widely dispersed portfolio that includes residential loans both inside and outside of our footprint. In expanding our field servicing into new regions, we risk being unable to retain or employ qualified personnel, and that our servicing methodologies may not be as successful in other geographic regions as they have been in the southeastern U.S. We also may contract with third party servicers to service residential loans located outside of our southeastern footprint and there can be no guarantee that these third parties will be as successful as our personnel in servicing these residential loans. In addition, we may seek to grow our business through partnerships and other joint venture arrangements with third parties, as well as through the merger with, or acquisition of, third parties that supplement or otherwise are complementary to our existing business. We also may seek to expand our business beyond its current scope, including loan origination and performance-based servicing. There can be no guarantee that we will be successful in identifying or reaching agreement with third parties or that such efforts to grow or expand the business will be successful. We may not realize the growth opportunities expected from our acquisition and the integration of Marix’s business with our business could prove difficult. The success of our strategies will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the growth opportunities that we believe will result from combining the core competencies of Marix’s business with our servicing operations. At the time of acquisition, Marix was operating at a significant loss. While we are making progress 14 to reduce these losses, Marix continues to operate at a loss and it is critical to our growth strategy that Marix become profitable. In addition, a component of our growth strategy will require that we take full advantage of Marix’s servicing and technological capabilities, including its existing capacity to handle a higher volume of business. Accordingly, our ability to realize a reduction in costs, increase revenues and to realize growth opportunities, and the timing of this realization, initially will depend on our ability to integrate our operations, technologies, services, accounting and personnel with those of Marix. Even if the integration of Marix’s business with our business is successful, there can be no assurance that this integration will achieve the full benefits of the growth opportunities currently expected from this integration, or that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame unless we are able to increase the volume of business performed at Marix. In addition, although we performed due diligence on Marix prior to the acquisition, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual condition of Marix’s business. For example, we may have acquired unknown or unasserted liabilities or claims or liabilities not susceptible of discovery during our due diligence investigation that may manifest only at a later date. If we are unsuccessful in overcoming these risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and, to the extent we fail to meet these competitive challenges, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of economic, legislative, regulatory or technological changes. Competition for mortgage loan originations comes primarily from commercial banks and savings institutions. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and typically have access to greater financial resources and lower funding costs, and may be able to participate in government programs in which we are unable to participate because our business is new to the sector or of insufficient scale. All of these factors place us at a competitive disadvantage. Several other REITs recently have raised significant amounts of capital, and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create significant competition for investment opportunities. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more favorable relationships than we can. Moreover, many of our competitors operate over a larger geographic region and have a greater servicing capacity than do we which may cause prospective customers to believe that we are not able to adequately service loans outside of our historical footprint, or to service loan portfolios of a certain size. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives. We may leverage our investments, which may adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.3 billion, which consisted entirely of non-recourse leverage from our securitizations entered into prior to 2007. We are not required to maintain any specific debt-to-equity ratio and our governing documents contain no limitation in the amount of debt that we may incur. Subject to our need for additional capital and to market conditions and availability, we may incur significant debt in the future through repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities, credit facilities (including term loans and revolving facilities), structured financing arrangements, securitizations, term CMOs and other forms of term debt, in addition to transaction or asset-specific financing arrangements. The amount of leverage that we may use to make future investments will vary depending on our ability to obtain financing, lenders’ and rating agencies’ estimates of the stability of cash flow from our investments, and our assessment of the appropriate amount of leverage for the particular assets we are funding. 15 Any return on our investments and cash available for distribution to stockholders may be reduced or eliminated to the extent that changes in market conditions prevent us from leveraging our investments, require us to decrease our rate of leverage or increase the amount of collateral that we are required to provide, or increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. Our debt service payments will reduce cash flow available for distributions to stockholders, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we could be subject to risks such as (i) the acceleration of such debt and any other debt subject to cross-default provisions, (ii) the loss of our ability to borrow unused amounts under any of our financing arrangements could be reduced or eliminated, and (iii) the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale. We may choose to use repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities, securitizations and term CMO financings or other committed forms of leverage. To the extent that we elect such financing vehicles in either the near or long-term, we may leverage certain of our assets. In such event, we will be subject to certain risks, such as (i) decreases in the value of assets funded or collateralized by these financings, which may lead to margin calls that we will have to satisfy; (and, if we do not have the funds or collateral available to satisfy such margin calls, we may be forced to sell assets at significantly depressed prices due to market conditions or otherwise), (ii) since the financing costs of such facilities typically are determined by reference to floating rates and the assets funded by the facility may be at fixed rates, net interest income will decline in periods of rising interest rates as financing costs increase while interest income remains fixed, and (iii) these facilities may have maturity dates that are shorter than the maturities of the assets funded by the facility and, if the facilities cannot be replaced or extended at their maturity, we may be forced to sell assets at significantly depressed prices due to market conditions or otherwise. The need to satisfy such margin calls or maturities, and any compression of net interest income in a period of rising interest rates, may reduce cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. Any reduction in distributions or sales of assets at inopportune times or at a loss may cause the value of our common stock to decline, in some cases, precipitously. Certain of our existing financing facilities contain covenants that restrict our operations and may inhibit our ability to grow our business and increase revenues. Certain of our existing financing facilities contain restrictions, covenants, and representations and warranties that, among other things, require us to satisfy specified financial and asset quality tests. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants or representations and warranties, we would be in default under these agreements and our lenders could elect to declare any and all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and enforce their respective interests against collateral pledged under such agreements which would restrict our ability to make additional borrowings. Certain of our financing agreements contain cross-default provisions, so that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements also could declare a default. The covenants and restrictions in our financing facilities may restrict our ability to, among other things incur or guarantee additional debt, make certain investments or acquisitions, make distributions on or repurchase or redeem capital stock, engage in mergers or consolidations, grant liens, sell, lease, assign, transfer or dispose of any of our assets, business or property, and enter into transactions with affiliates. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing, including the financing needed for us to qualify as a REIT, or to engage in other business activities, which may significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. A default and resulting repayment acceleration could significantly reduce our liquidity. This could also significantly harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and our ability to make distributions, which could cause the value of our common stock to decline. A default will also significantly limit our financing alternatives such that we will be unable to pursue a leverage strategy, which could curtail our investment returns. 16 The repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities, credit facilities (including term loans and revolving facilities), structured financing arrangements, securitizations, term CMOs and other forms of term debt, in addition to transaction or asset-specific financing arrangements that we may use to finance our investments, may contain restrictions, covenants, and representations and warranties that restrict our operations or may require us to provide additional collateral and may restrict us from leveraging our assets as fully as desired. We may use repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities, credit facilities (including term loans and revolving facilities), structured financing arrangements, securitizations, term CMOs and other forms of term debt, in addition to transaction or asset-specific financing arrangements, to finance our investment purchases. Such financing facilities may contain restrictions, covenants, and representations and warranties that, among other conditions, require us to satisfy specified financial and asset quality tests and may restrict our ability to, among other actions, incur or guarantee additional debt, make certain investments or acquisitions, make distributions on or repurchase or redeem capital stock, engage in mergers or consolidations, grant liens or such other conditions as the lenders may require. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants or representations and warranties, we would be in default under these agreements and our lenders could elect to declare any and all amounts outstanding under the agreements immediately due and payable, enforce their respective interests against collateral pledged under such agreements, and restrict our ability to make additional borrowings. These financing agreements also may contain cross-default provisions, such that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements also could declare a default. If the market value of the loans pledged to a funding source declines in value, we may be required by the lending institution to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced, but we may not have the collateral or funds available to do so. Posting additional collateral will reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets, which could adversely affect our business. In the event that we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions may accelerate repayment of our indebtedness, increase our borrowing rates, liquidate our collateral or terminate our ability to borrow. Further, financial institutions may require us to maintain a certain amount of cash that is not invested or to set aside non-levered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position, which would permit us to satisfy our collateral obligations. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as effectively as we otherwise might choose, which could reduce our return on equity. If we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, then, as described above, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. Our current and possible future use of term CMO and securitization financings with over-collateralization requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flow. The terms of our current CMOs and securitizations generally provide, and those that we may sponsor in the future typically will provide, that the principal amount of assets must exceed the principal balance of the related bonds by a certain amount, commonly referred to as over-collateralization. Our CMO and securitization terms now provide, and we anticipate that future CMO and securitization terms will provide, that, if certain delinquencies or losses exceed specified levels based on the analysis by the lenders or the rating agencies (or any financial guaranty insurer) of the characteristics of the assets collateralizing the bonds, the required level of over-collateralization may be increased, or may be prevented from decreasing as would otherwise be permitted, if losses or delinquencies did not exceed those levels. Other tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may restrict our ability to receive net income from assets collateralizing the obligations. We cannot assure you that the performance tests will be satisfied. Given recent volatility in the CMO and securitization market, rating agencies may depart from historic practices for CMO and securitization financings, which would make such financings more costly. Failure to obtain favorable terms with regard to these matters may materially and adversely affect our net income. If our assets fail to perform as anticipated, our over-collateralization or other credit enhancement expense associated with our CMO and securitization financings will increase. 17 Our existing securitization trusts contain servicer triggers that, if exceeded, could result in a significant reduction in cash flows to us. Our existing securitization trusts contain delinquency and loss triggers that, if exceeded, allocate any excess over-collateralization to paying down the bonds for the securitization at an accelerated pace rather than releasing the excess cash to us. One of our existing securitizations Mid-State Capital Corporation 2006-1, or Trust 2006-1, exceeded the delinquency trigger and did not provide any excess cash flow to us during 2010. As of December 31, 2010, Trust 2006-1 held mortgage loans with an outstanding principal balance of $175.4 million and a book value of $167.4 million, which collateralized bonds issued by Trust 2006-1 having an outstanding principal balance of $134.9 million. All of our other securitization trusts have experienced some level of delinquencies and losses, and, if any of these trusts were to exceed their respective triggers or if we are unable to cure the triggers already exceeded, any excess cash flow from such trusts would not be available to us and, as a result, we may not have sufficient sources of cash to meet our operating needs or to make required REIT distributions. Our failure to effectively service our portfolio of residential loans would materially and adversely affect us. Most residential loans and securitizations of residential loans require a servicer to manage collections on the underlying loans. Our servicing responsibilities include providing delinquency notices when necessary, loan workouts and modifications, foreclosure proceedings, short sales, liquidations of our REO acquired as a result of foreclosures of residential loans and, to the extent loans are securitized and sold, reporting on performance to the trustee of such pooled loans. Servicer quality is of prime importance in the default performance of residential loans and both default frequency and default severity of loans may depend upon the quality of our servicing. If we are not vigilant in encouraging borrowers to make their monthly payments, borrowers may be far less likely to make these payments, which could result in a higher frequency of default. If we take longer to liquidate non-performing assets, loss severities may tend to be higher than originally anticipated. Higher loss severity also may be caused by less successful dispositions of REO properties. Our ability to effectively service our portfolio of residential loans is critical to our success, particularly given our strategy of maximizing the value of the residential loans that we acquire through loan modification programs, differentiated servicing and other initiatives focused on keeping borrowers in their homes and, when that is not possible and foreclosure is necessary, maximizing recovery rates. Our effectiveness is tied to our “high-touch” servicing approach. In the event that we purchase residential loans outside of our southeastern U.S. footprint, whether as a targeted acquisition, as part of a widely dispersed portfolio that includes residential loans both inside and outside of our footprint, or through the expanded servicing opportunities presented by Marix, we may, among other options, expand our servicing network into such areas, contract with third party servicers to service these residential loans and/or subsequently divest such residential loans. There can be no guarantee that we will be as effective in servicing loans outside of our footprint as we have been within our footprint, or that third party servicers will be as effective as we have been. Residential loans are subject to risks, including borrower defaults or bankruptcies, special hazard losses, declines in real estate values, delinquencies and fraud. During the time that we hold residential loans we are subject to risks on the underlying loans from borrower defaults and bankruptcies and from special hazard losses, such as those occurring from earthquakes, hurricanes or floods that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. If a default occurs on any residential loan we hold, we may bear the risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the mortgaged property plus any payments from any insurer or guarantor, and the amount owing on the loan. Defaults on residential loans historically coincide with declines in real estate values, which are difficult to anticipate and may be dependent on local economic conditions. Increased exposure to losses on residential loans can reduce the value of our portfolio. 18 The lack of liquidity in our portfolio may adversely affect our business. We have invested and may continue to invest in residential loans that are not liquid. It may be difficult or impossible to obtain third party pricing on the residential loans that we purchase. Illiquid investments typically experience greater price volatility as a ready market does not exist. In addition, validating third party pricing for illiquid investments may be more subjective than more liquid investments. The illiquidity of our residential loans may make it difficult for us to sell such residential loans if the need or desire arises. In addition, if we are required to quickly liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our portfolio. As a result, our ability to assess or vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are highly dependent on information systems and third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems, or unsuccessful implementation of new systems, could cause delays or other problems in our servicing activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. In addition, a component of the rationale for acquiring Marix was to access the company’s information systems. In the event that our existing operations cannot be integrated into the Marix systems, or that these systems prove to have fewer capabilities than anticipated at the time of acquisition, it may adversely affect our growth plans. Economic conditions in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida may have a material impact on our profitability because we conduct a significant portion of our business in these markets. Our residential loans currently are concentrated in the Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida markets. As a result of the geographic concentration of residential loans in these markets, we are particularly exposed to downturns in these local economies or other changes in local real estate conditions. In the past, rates of loss and delinquency on residential loans have increased from time to time, driven primarily by weaker economic conditions in these markets. Furthermore, precarious economic conditions may hinder the ability of borrowers to repay their obligations in areas in which we conduct the majority of our business. In the event of negative economic changes in these markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. Natural disasters and adverse weather conditions could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations, including those of our insurance business. The climates of many of the states in which we do business and plan to continue to operate in the future, including Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida, where we have the largest concentrations of residential loans, present increased risks of natural disaster and adverse weather. Natural disasters or adverse weather in these areas have in the past, and may in the future, lead to significant insurance claims, cause increases in delinquencies and defaults in our mortgage portfolio and weaken demand for homes that we may have to repossess in affected areas, which could adversely affect our results. In addition, the rate of delinquencies may be higher after natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. The occurrence of large loss events due to natural disasters or adverse weather could reduce the insurance coverage available to us, increase the cost of our insurance premiums and weaken the financial condition of our insurers, thereby limiting our ability to mitigate any future losses that may occur from such events. Moreover, severe flooding, wind and water damage, forced evacuations, contamination, gas leaks, fire and environmental and other damage caused by natural disasters or adverse weather could lead to a general economic downturn, including increased prices for oil, gas and energy, loss of jobs, regional disruptions in travel, transportation and tourism and a decline in real-estate related investments, especially in the areas most directly damaged by the disaster or storm. 19 Our insurance business also is susceptible to risks of natural disasters and adverse weather conditions. Best, an insurance subsidiary of the Company, places coverage through American Modern Insurance Group, or AMIG, which, in turn, reinsures some or all of the coverage through WIRC. WIRC has a reinsurance policy with Munich Re. This policy has a $2.5 million deductible per occurrence with an aggregate limit of $10 million per year. Multiple occurrences of natural disasters and/or adverse weather conditions will subject us to the payment of a corresponding number of deductibles of up to $2.5 million per occurrence. In addition, to the extent that insured losses exceed $10 million in the aggregate in any policy year, we will be responsible for the payment of such excess losses. Because we are dependent upon Munich Re’s ability to pay any claims on our reinsurance policy, should they fail to make any such payments, the payments would be our responsibility. In the future, reinsurance of WIRC’s exposure to AMIG may not be available, or available at affordable rates, leaving us without coverage for claims. While we currently have a $10 million facility provided by Walter Energy to cover catastrophic hurricane losses, and we have built up a trust account with cash reserves, the Walter Energy facility expires in April 2011 and is not expected to be replaced, at which point we will have increased exposure to our insurance business at such time. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately determine our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial results, which could harm our business and the market value of our common shares. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, requires us to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent auditors issue their own opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. While we undertake substantial work to maintain compliance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, and intend to continue to do so, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in maintaining adequate control over our financial reporting and financial processes. Furthermore, as we grow our business, our internal controls will become more complex, and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. If we or our independent auditors discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market value of our shares of common stock. In addition, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency would require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such weaknesses or deficiencies and management may not be able to remediate same in a timely manner. We utilize, and will continue to utilize, analytical models and data in connection with the valuation of our future investments, and any incorrect, misleading or incomplete information used in connection therewith may subject us to potential risks. Given the complexity of our proposed future investments and strategies, we rely, and will continue to rely, on analytical models and information and data, some of which is supplied by third parties. Should our models or such data prove to be incorrect or misleading, any decision made in reliance thereon exposes us to potential risks. Some of the analytical models that we use or will be used by us are predictive in nature. The use of predictive models has inherent risks and may incorrectly forecast future behavior, leading to potential losses. We also use and will continue to use valuation models that rely on market data inputs. If incorrect market data is input into a valuation model, even a tested and well-respected valuation model may provide incorrect valuations and, as a result, could provide adverse actual results as compared to the predictive results. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management personnel. We cannot be assured you that we will be able to attract and retain such qualified management and other personnel. The loss of key management or other key employees, and our inability to attract such personnel, could adversely affect our ability to manage our overall operations and successfully implement our business strategy. 20 While we expand our business, we may not be successful in conveying the knowledge of our long-serving personnel to newly hired personnel and retaining our internal culture. Much of our success can be attributed to the knowledge, experience, and loyalty of our key management and other personnel who have served us for many years. As we grow and expand our operations, we will need to hire new employees to implement our business strategies. It is important that the knowledge and experience of our senior management and our overall philosophies, business model, and operational standards, including our differentiated “high-touch” approach to servicing, are adequately conveyed to, and shared by, these new members of our team. At the same time, we must ensure that our hiring and retention practices serve to maintain our internal culture. If we are unable to achieve these integration objectives, our growth could come at a risk to our business model, which has been a major underlying component of our success. We may change our investment and operational policies without stockholder consent, which may adversely affect the market value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors determines our operational policies and may amend or revise such policies, including our policies with respect to our REIT qualification and maintaining our REIT status, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our stockholders. Operational policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may be required to report taxable income from certain investments earlier then and possibly in excess of our realization of the economic income ultimately provided from them. We are subject to U.S Federal tax provisions that do not fully match reportable taxable income with the timing of our receipt of economic income. Most of our installment and mortgage notes receivable have tax basis considerably less than their principal balances as we were treated, for tax purposes only, as purchasing the assets we acquired at the spin-off at amounts less than outstanding principal. In addition, we have acquired and will acquire debt instruments in the secondary market at prices less than their outstanding principal balances. This has resulted and will result in “market discount” under tax laws that provide for complicated and sometimes non-economic income recognition schemes. We are required to periodically recognize as taxable interest a portion of this market discount. Our method of calculating these amounts is based on a determination of our effective yield on each applicable individual obligation as if we expect to collect the outstanding principal balance in full over its stated term. No adjustment is made to take into account expected prepayments, delinquencies or foreclosures; these events are given effect as they occur. If we ultimately collect less on the debt instrument than our purchase price plus the market discount we had previously reported as income, we may not be able to benefit from any offsetting loss deductions in a later taxable year. Our loss mitigation activities have and will include negotiated modifications to debt obligations as alternatives to foreclosure. Under the tax law, “significant modifications” to debt having tax basis lower than outstanding principal can and do result in taxable income in excess of realized economic income. Many of our modifications will be “significant”. We are taking steps to minimize the unfavorable effects of these tax rules; as with market discount, we may not be able to benefit from any offsetting loss deductions in a later taxable year. These circumstances, individually or collectively, could result in (a) our retaining a portion of our taxable income in the REIT and paying income tax (rather than making cash distributions to our stockholders), (b) making taxable stock distributions to our stockholders, or (c) the Company losing its REIT qualification. 21 Risks Related To Our Investments We invest in less-than-prime, non-conforming and other credit-challenged residential loans, which are subject to increased risks relative to prime loans. Our portfolio includes, and we anticipate that we will use the net proceeds from any future capital raises to acquire, less-than-prime residential loans and sub-performing and non-performing residential loans, which are subject to increased risks of loss. Loans may be, or may become, sub-performing or non-performing for a variety of reasons, including because the underlying property is too highly leveraged or the borrower falls upon financial distress, in either case, resulting in the borrower being unable to meet debt service obligations to us. Such sub-performing or non-performing loans may require a substantial amount of workout negotiations and/or restructuring, which may divert the attention of our senior management team from other activities and entail, among other things, a substantial reduction in the interest rate, capitalization of interest payments and a substantial write-down of the principal of the loans. However, even if such restructuring were successfully accomplished, a risk exists that the borrowers will not be able or willing to maintain the restructured payments or refinance the restructured loan upon maturity. In addition, certain sub-performing or non-performing loans that we acquire may have been originated by financial institutions that are or may become insolvent, suffer from serious financial stress or are no longer in existence. As a result, the standards by which such loans were originated, the recourse to the selling institution, and/or the standards by which such loans are being serviced or operated may be adversely affected. Further, loans on properties operating under the close supervision of a mortgage lender are, in certain circumstances, subject to certain additional potential liabilities that may exceed the value of our investment. In the future, it is possible that we may find it necessary or desirable to foreclose on some of the residential loans that we acquire, and the foreclosure process may be lengthy and expensive. Borrowers may resist mortgage foreclosure actions by asserting numerous claims, counterclaims and defenses against us including numerous lender liability claims and defenses, even when such assertions may have no basis in fact, in an effort to prolong the foreclosure action and force the lender into a modification of the loan or a favorable buy-out of the borrower’s position. In some states, foreclosure actions can take several years or more to litigate. At any time prior to or during the foreclosure proceedings, the borrower may file for bankruptcy, which would have the effect of staying the foreclosure actions and further delaying the foreclosure process. Foreclosure may create a negative public perception of the related mortgaged property, resulting in a diminution of its value. Even if we are successful in foreclosing on a loan, the liquidation proceeds upon sale of the underlying real estate may not be sufficient to recover our cost basis in the loan, resulting in a loss to us. Furthermore, costs or delays involved in the effectuation of a foreclosure or a liquidation of the underlying property further reduce the proceeds and thus increase costs and potential loss. Any such reductions could materially and adversely affect the value of the residential loans in which we intend to invest. Whether or not we have participated in the negotiation of the terms of any such mortgages, there can be no assurance as to the adequacy of the protection of the terms of the loan, including the validity or enforceability of the loan and the maintenance of the anticipated priority and perfection of the applicable security interests. Furthermore, claims may be asserted that might interfere with enforcement of our rights. In the event of a foreclosure, we may assume direct ownership of the underlying real estate. The liquidation proceeds upon sale of such real estate may not be sufficient to recover our cost basis in the loan, resulting in a loss to us. Any costs or delays involved in the effectuation of a foreclosure of the loan or a liquidation of the underlying property will further reduce the proceeds and thus increase the loss. Whole loan mortgages are also subject to “special hazard” risk (property damage caused by hazards, such as earthquakes or environmental hazards, not covered by standard property insurance policies), and to bankruptcy risk (reduction in a borrower’s mortgage debt by a bankruptcy court). In addition, claims may be assessed against us on account of our position as mortgage holder or property owner, including responsibility for tax payments, environmental hazards and other liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 22 We may not realize expected income from our portfolio. We invest to generate current income. To the extent the borrowers default on interest or principal payments on the residential loans in which we invest, we may not be able to realize income from our portfolio. Any income that we realize may not be sufficient to offset our expenses. Our inability to realize income from our portfolio would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to stockholders and the trading price of our common stock. Increases in interest rates could negatively affect the value of our portfolio, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to stockholders. We have and will likely continue to invest directly in residential loans. Under a normal yield curve, an investment in these loans will decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. Declines in market value ultimately may reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution. A significant risk associated with our portfolio is the risk that long-term interest rates will increase significantly. If long-term rates were to increase significantly, the market value of our portfolio would decline, and the duration and weighted average life of our portfolio would increase. While we plan to hold our portfolio to maturity, we could realize a loss if our portfolio were to be sold. Market values of our portfolio may decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments for those residential loans that are subject to prepayment risk and widening of credit spreads. Accounting rules for certain of our transactions continue to evolve, are highly complex, and involve significant judgments and assumptions. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our financial statements. Accounting rules for determining the fair value measurement and disclosure of financial instruments are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. These complexities could lead to a delay in preparation of financial information and the delivery of this information to our stockholders. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions related to fair value could impact our financial statements and our ability to timely prepare our financial statements. A prolonged economic slowdown, a recession or declining real estate values could impair our portfolio and harm our operating results. Our portfolio is susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions, which could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets, result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us, or force us to sell assets at an inopportune time and for a loss. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and have an adverse effect on our operating results. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. We currently are not involved in any material hedging activities or transactions. However, we may in the future seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. These agreements may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the amount of income that a REIT may earn from non-qualified hedging transactions (other than through TRSs) to offset interest rate losses is limited by U.S. federal tax provisions governing REITs; 23 • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; and • a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. We intend only to enter into contracts with major financial institutions based on their credit rating and other factors, but our Board of Directors may choose to change this policy in the future. Hedging may reduce any overall returns on our investments, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our residential loan portfolio, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to stockholders. There are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ abilities to prepay their residential loans. Homeowners tend to prepay residential loans faster when interest rates decline. Consequently, owners of the loans must reinvest prepayment proceeds at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay residential loans when interest rates increase. Consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest prepayment proceeds at the higher prevailing interest rates. This volatility in prepayment may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to you. To the extent our residential loans are purchased at a premium, faster-than-expected prepayments result in a faster-than-expected amortization of the premium paid, which would adversely affect our earnings. Conversely, if these residential loans were purchased at a discount, faster-than-expected prepayments accelerate our recognition of income. A decrease in prepayment rates may adversely affect our profitability. Borrower prepayment of residential loans may adversely affect our profitability. We may purchase residential loans that have a lower interest rate than the then-prevailing market interest rate. In exchange for this lower interest rate, we may pay a discount to par value to acquire the investment. In accordance with accounting rules, we will accrete this discount over the expected term of the investment based on our prepayment assumptions. If the investment is prepaid at a slower than expected rate, however, we must accrete the remaining portion of the discount at a slower than expected rate, which will extend the expected life of the portfolio and result in a lower-than-expected yield on investment purchased at a discount to par. The residential loans we invest in are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. Residential loans are typically secured by single-family residential property and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure, and risks of loss. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a residential property is dependent upon the income or assets of the borrower. A number of factors, including a general economic downturn, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances, may impair borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans. In the event of the bankruptcy of a residential loan borrower, the residential loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the residential loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a residential loan can be an expensive and lengthy process which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed residential loan. 24 Our real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. We own assets secured by real estate and may own real estate directly in the future upon a default of residential loans. Real estate investments are subject to various risks, including: • acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions such as indoor mold; • condemnation; and • the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses. If any of these or similar events occurs, it may reduce our return from an affected property or investment and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to you. Insurance on residential loans and their collateral may not cover all losses. There are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, terrorism or acts of war, that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, including terrorism or acts of war, also might make the insurance proceeds insufficient to repair or replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Under these circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected real property. Any uninsured loss could result in the loss of cash flow from, and the asset value of, the affected property. We may be exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title, which may in turn decrease the value of the underlying properties. In the course of our business, we may take title to real estate, and, if we do take title, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. In such a circumstance, we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or we may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, an owner or operator of real property may become liable under various federal, state and local laws, for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect an owner’s ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. To the extent that an owner of an underlying property becomes liable for removal costs, the ability of the owner to make debt payments may be reduced, which in turn may adversely affect the value of the relevant mortgage-related assets held by us. 25 Risks Related To Our Common Stock and Funds We Raise for Investment We may allocate the net proceeds from our recent bond offering and in other future capital raises to investments with which you may not agree. In November, 2010, we raised approximately $134.4 million in capital through the issuance of residential mortgage backed notes. As of December 31, 2010 we had not yet identified suitable investments for $98.1 million of those funds. In the future, we may issue additional bonds, or raise capital in other ways, including by incurring debt or the registration of additional securities. We will have significant flexibility in investing any capital raised and we may make investments with which you disagree. The failure of our management to apply capital effectively or find investments that meet our investment criteria in sufficient time or on acceptable terms could result in unfavorable returns, could cause a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations, and could cause the value of our common stock to decline. There is a risk that you may not receive distributions or that distributions may not grow over time. We anticipate making distributions on a quarterly basis out of assets legally available therefore to our stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income in each year is distributed; however, to the extent our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in the Company’s best interests to remain a REIT, this practice may cease. Moreover, to the extent we do continue to distribute our REIT taxable income have not established a minimum distribution payment level and our ability to pay distributions may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, our election to maintain our REIT status and other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. Among the factors that could adversely affect our results of operations and impair our ability to pay distributions, or the amount we have to pay to our stockholders are: • the profitability of the investment of the net proceeds of our secondary offering; • our ability to make profitable investments; • defaults in our asset portfolio or decreases in the value of our portfolio; and • the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates. A change in any one of these factors could affect our ability to make distributions. We cannot assure you that we will achieve results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Market interest rates may have an effect on the trading value of our shares. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our common stock is our dividend rate as a percentage of our share price relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may demand a higher dividend rate or seek alternative investments paying higher dividends or interest. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market value of our shares. For instance, if interest rates rise, it is likely that the market price of our shares will decrease as market rates on interest-bearing securities, such as bonds, increase. Investing in our shares may involve a high degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objectives may result in a high amount of risk when compared to alternative investment options and volatility or loss of principal. Our investments may be highly speculative and aggressive, are subject to credit risk, interest rate, and market value risks, among others and therefore an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance. 26 Broad market fluctuations could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. The stock market has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of the shares of many companies in industries similar or related to ours and that have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performances. These broad market fluctuations could reduce the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, our operating results and prospects may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors or may be lower than those of companies with comparable market capitalizations, which could lead to a material decline in the market price of our common stock. Our existing portfolio of residential loans was primarily purchased from and originated by Walter Energy’s homebuilding affiliate, JWH, and we may not be successful in identifying and consummating suitable investment opportunities independent of this origination platform, which may impede our growth and negatively affect our results of operations. Our ability to expand through acquisitions of portfolios of residential loans or otherwise is integral to our business strategy and requires us to identify suitable investment opportunities that meet our criteria. Our existing portfolio of residential loans was primarily purchased from and originated by Walter Energy’s homebuilding affiliate, JWH, and these loans were underwritten according to our specifications. Following the spin-off of our business from Walter Energy, we now operate our business on an independent basis and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and consummating suitable investment opportunities independent of Walter Energy and JWH. Failure to identify or consummate acquisitions of portfolios of residential loans on attractive terms or at all will slow our growth, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit a change in our control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of such shares. We are subject to the “business combination” provisions of the MGCL that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our then outstanding voting shares or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting shares) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and, thereafter, imposes special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations. These provisions of the MGCL do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by the Board of Directors of a corporation prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, our Board of Directors has by resolution exempted business combinations between us and any other person, provided that the business combination is first approved by our Board of Directors. This resolution, however, may be altered or repealed in whole or in part at any time. If this resolution is repealed, or our Board of Directors does not otherwise approve a business combination, this statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. The “control share” provisions of the MGCL provide that “control shares” of a Maryland corporation (defined as shares which, when aggregated with all other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in the election of directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the acquisition of “control shares,” subject to certain exceptions) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding votes entitled to be cast by the acquirer of control shares, our officers and our employees who are also our directors. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares of 27 stock. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. The “unsolicited takeover” provisions of the MGCL permit our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain provisions if we have a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act (which we have upon the completion of our secondary offering), and at least three independent directors. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes of directors. Directors of each class are elected for three-year terms upon the expiration of their current terms, and each year one class of directors will be elected by our stockholders. The terms of the directors expire in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. The staggered terms of our directors may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our authorized but unissued shares of common and preferred stock may prevent a change in our control. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock. In addition, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our Board of Directors may establish a series of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our shares of common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Your investment return may be reduced if we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. In seeking to qualify for an exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act, our ability to make certain investments will be limited, which also may reduce our returns. We do not intend to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we were obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act that impose, among other things: • limitations on capital structure; • restrictions on specified investments; • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and • compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses In general, we expect to operate our company so that we will not be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act because we are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” This exemption generally requires that at least 55% of our portfolio be comprised of real property and mortgages and other liens on an interest in real estate (collectively, “qualifying assets”) and at least 80% of our portfolio be comprised of real estate-related assets. Qualifying assets include mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities that represent the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans and other interests in real estate. Specifically, our investment strategy is to invest at least 55% of our assets in mortgage loans and other qualifying interests in real estate. As a result, we are limited in our ability to make certain investments. If we fail to qualify for this exemption in the future, we could be required to restructure our activities in a manner that or at a time when we would not otherwise choose to do so, which could negatively affect the value of shares of our common stock, the sustainability of our business model, and our ability to make distributions. In addition, we may have to acquire additional income or loss generating assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or may have to forego 28 opportunities to acquire interests in companies that we would otherwise want to acquire and would be important to our investment strategy. Criminal and civil actions could also be brought against us if we failed to comply with the Investment Company Act. In addition, there can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing REITs, including regulations issued by the Division of Investment Management of the SEC, providing more specific or different guidance regarding the treatment of assets as qualifying real estate assets or real estate-related assets, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. Rapid changes in the values of our residential loans and other real estate-related assets may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT or exclusion from the Investment Company Act. If the market value or income potential of our residential loans and other real estate-related assets declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase certain real estate investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets if we elect to maintain our REIT qualification or our exclusion from the Investment Company Act. Doing so may be especially difficult if the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly. This difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of our investments. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent our REIT and Investment Company Act considerations. Our Board of Directors may revoke or terminate our REIT election which would result in the elimination of our REIT requirement to distribute substantially all of our net taxable income to our stockholders. Our Corporate Charter permits our Board of Directors to revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election if the Board determines that it is no longer in the best interests of the Company to continue to operate as a REIT. In the event that our Board of Directors makes such a determination we would cease to operate as a REIT and thereafter, we would no longer be required to distribute substantially all of our net taxable income to our stockholders. Tax Risks Summary of U.S. federal income tax risks. This summary of certain tax risks is limited to the U.S. federal income tax risks addressed below. Additional risks or issues may exist that are not addressed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and that could affect the U.S. federal tax treatment of us or our stockholders. Investors are advised to consult with tax experts to fully assess their tax risks. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy various tests regarding the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to stockholders and the ownership of our stock. To meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make. We may be required to make distributions to you at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our investment performance. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that we meet the REIT gross income tests annually and that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our total assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain residential loans and mortgage-backed securities. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualifying real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer other than a TRS. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities, 29 qualifying real estate assets, and securities issued by a TRS) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of such calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio or contribute otherwise attractive investments to a TRS. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Failure to qualify as a REIT, or if we elect to forego REIT status, would subject us to U.S. federal income tax and applicable state and local taxes, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Qualifying as a REIT requires us to meet various tests regarding the nature of our assets and our income, the ownership of our outstanding stock, and the amount of our distributions on an ongoing basis. Our ability to satisfy the gross income and asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT annual income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Certain rules applicable to REITs are particularly difficult to interpret or to apply in the case of REITs investing in real estate mortgage loans that are acquired at a discount, subject to work-outs or modifications, or reasonably expected to be in default at the time of acquisition. Moreover, new legislation, court decisions or administrative guidance, in each case possibly with retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. Thus, while we believe that we have operated so that we will qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, including the tax treatment of certain investments we may make, and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we have qualified or will continue to so qualify for any particular year. If we fail to qualify or our Board of Directors chooses to terminate our REIT status in any calendar year and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income. We might need to borrow money or sell assets to pay that tax. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our net taxable income to our stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT were excused under U.S. federal tax laws, we would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we failed to qualify. Classification of a securitization or financing arrangement we enter into as a taxable mortgage pool could subject us or certain of our stockholders to increased taxation. We intend to structure our securitization and financing arrangements so as to not create a taxable mortgage pool, or TMP. However, if we have borrowings with two or more maturities and (1) those borrowings are secured by mortgages or mortgage-backed securities and (2) the payments made on the borrowings are related to the payments received on the underlying assets, then the borrowings and the pool of mortgages or mortgage-backed securities to which such borrowings relate may be classified as a TMP under the Code. If any part of our investments were to be treated as a TMP, then our REIT qualification would not be impaired, but a portion of the taxable income we recognize may be characterized as “excess inclusion” income and allocated among our stockholders to the extent of and generally in proportion to the distributions we make to each stockholder. Any excess inclusion income would: • not be allowed to be offset by a stockholder’s net operating losses; • be subject to a tax as unrelated business income if a stockholder were a tax-exempt stockholder and not a disqualified organization as discussed below; 30 • be subject to the application of U.S. federal income tax withholding at the maximum rate (without reduction for any otherwise applicable income tax treaty) with respect to amounts allocable to foreign stockholders; and • be taxable (at the highest corporate tax rate) to us rather than to you, to the extent the excess inclusion income relates to stock held by disqualified organizations (generally, tax-exempt organizations not subject to tax on unrelated business income, including governmental organizations). REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and may require us to incur debt or sell assets to make such distributions. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (including certain items of non-cash income), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we are subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal income tax laws. We intend to distribute our net income to our stockholders in a manner that will satisfy the REIT 90% distribution requirement and to avoid the 4% nondeductible excise tax. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined by GAAP or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. For example, we may be required to accrue interest and discount income on mortgage loans and other types of debt securities or interests in debt securities before we receive any payments of interest or principal on such assets. We may also acquire distressed debt instruments that are subsequently modified by agreement with the borrower either directly or pursuant to our involvement in programs recently announced by the U.S. federal government. If the amendments to the outstanding debt are “significant modifications” under applicable regulations promulgated by the Treasury, or Treasury Regulations, the modified debt may be considered to have been reissued to us at a gain in a debt-for-debt exchange with the borrower, with gain recognized by us to the extent that the principal amount of the modified debt exceeds our cost of purchasing it prior to modification. We may also be required under the terms of the indebtedness that we incur, whether to private lenders or pursuant to government programs, to use cash received from interest payments to make principal payment on that indebtedness, with the effect that we will recognize income but will not have a corresponding amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year and find it difficult or impossible to meet the REIT distribution requirements in certain circumstances. In such circumstances, we may be required to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt, (iv) make a taxable distribution of our shares as part of a distribution in which stockholders may elect to receive shares or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash or (v) use cash reserves, in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. Thus, compliance with the REIT distribution requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing residential loans, that would be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including residential loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we sold or securitized our assets in a manner that was treated as a sale for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of assets at the REIT level, and may securitize assets only in transactions that are treated as financing transactions and not 31 as sales for tax purposes even though such transactions may not be the optimal execution on a pre-tax basis. We may be able to avoid any prohibited transactions tax concerns by engaging in securitization transactions through a TRS, subject to certain limitations described above. To the extent that we engage in such activities through TRSs, the income associated with such activities will be subject to U.S. federal (and applicable state and local) corporate income tax. We may be required to report taxable income for certain investments in excess of the economic income we ultimately realize from them. We expect that we will acquire debt instruments in the secondary market for less than their face amount. The amount of such discount is generally treated as “market discount” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We have made an election, which cannot be revoked without the consent of the IRS, to include market discount in income on our loan assets on a basis of a constant yield to maturity. Consequently, we will be required to include market discount with respect to a loan in income each period as if such loan were assured of ultimately being collected in full. If we collect less on the debt instrument than our purchase price plus the market discount we had previously reported as income, we may not be able to benefit from any offsetting loss deductions in a later taxable year. In the event that any debt instruments acquired by us are delinquent as to mandatory principal and interest payments, or in the event payments with respect to a particular debt instrument are not made when due, we may nonetheless be required to continue to recognize the unpaid interest as taxable income as it accrues, despite doubt as to its ultimate collectability. In this case, while we would in general ultimately have an offsetting loss deduction available to us when such interest was determined to be uncollectible, the utility of that deduction could depend on our having taxable income in that later year or thereafter. Finally, we or one of our TRSs may recognize taxable “phantom income” as a result of modifications, pursuant to agreements with borrowers, of debt instruments that we acquire if the amendments to the outstanding debt are “significant modifications” under applicable Treasury Regulations. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may face tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, franchise, property and transfer taxes, including mortgage recording taxes. In addition, we could in certain circumstances be required to pay an excise or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Code in order to maintain or qualification as a REIT. In addition, any TRSs we own, such as Walter Investment Holding Company, Marix Servicing LLC, Hanover Capital Partners 2, Ltd., Best Insurors, Inc. and Walter Investment Reinsurance Company, Ltd., may be subject to U.S. federal, state and local corporate taxes. In order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avoid the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from sales of inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, we may hold some of our assets through taxable subsidiary corporations, including TRSs. Any taxes paid by such subsidiary corporations would decrease the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. The failure of mortgage loans subject to a repurchase agreement to qualify as a real estate asset would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We may enter into repurchase agreements under which we will nominally sell certain of our assets to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. We believe that we will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as the owner of the assets that are the subject of repurchase agreements and that the repurchase agreements will be treated as secured lending transactions notwithstanding that such agreements may transfer record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that we did not own the assets during the term of the repurchase agreement, in which case we could fail to qualify as a REIT. 32 We may choose to make distributions in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends you receive. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and shares of our common stock at the election of each stockholder. Under IRS Revenue Procedure 2010-12, up to 90% of any such taxable dividend paid could be payable in our stock through 2012. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, U.S. holders may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. Accordingly, U.S. holders receiving a distribution of our shares may be required to sell shares received in such distribution or may be required to sell other stock or assets owned by them, at a time that may be disadvantageous, in order to satisfy any tax imposed on such distribution. If a U.S. holder sells the stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. holders, we may be required to withhold tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock, by withholding or disposing of part of the shares in such distribution and using the proceeds of such disposition to satisfy the withholding tax imposed. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, such sale may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Further, while Revenue Procedure 2010-12 applies only to taxable dividends payable by us in cash or stock until 2012, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to pay taxable dividends in cash and stock in later years. Moreover, various tax aspects of such a taxable cash/stock dividend are uncertain and have not yet been addressed by the IRS. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not impose additional requirements in the future with respect to taxable cash/stock dividends, including on a retroactive basis, or assert that the requirements for such taxable cash/stock dividends have not been met. The percentage of our assets represented by TRSs and the amount of our income that we can receive in the form of TRS dividends are subject to statutory limitations that could jeopardize our REIT qualification. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A significant portion of our activities will likely be conducted through one or more TRSs, and we expect that such TRSs may from time to time hold significant assets. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs (at the end of each quarter). While we intend to manage our affairs so as to satisfy this requirement, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in all market circumstances. TRSs, such as Walter Investment Holding Company, Marix Servicing LLC, Hanover Capital Partners 2, Ltd., Best Insurors, Inc. and Walter Investment Reinsurance Company, Ltd., that we form may pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us, unless necessary to maintain our REIT qualification. We will receive distributions from TRSs which will be classified as dividend income to the extent of the earnings and profits of the distributing corporation. We may from time to time need to make such distributions in order to keep the value of our TRSs below 25% of our total assets. However, TRS dividends will generally not constitute “good” income for purposes of one of the tests we must satisfy to qualify as a REIT, namely, that at least 75% of our gross income must in each taxable year generally be from real estate assets. While we will be monitoring our compliance with both this income test and the limitation on the percentage of our assets represented by TRS securities, and intend to conduct our affairs so as to comply with both, the two may at times be in conflict with one another. That is, it is possible that we may wish to distribute a dividend from a TRS in order to reduce the value of our TRSs below 25% of our assets, but be unable to do so without violating the requirement that 75% of our gross income in the taxable year be derived from real estate assets. Although there are other measures we can take in such circumstances in order 33 to remain in compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with both of these tests in all market conditions. Despite our qualification as a REIT, a significant portion of our income may be earned through TRSs that are subject to U.S. federal income taxation. Despite our qualification as a REIT, we may be subject to a significant amount of U.S. federal income taxes. We may hold a significant amount of our assets from time to time in one or more TRSs, subject to the limitation that securities in TRSs may not represent more than 25% of our assets in order for us to remain qualified as a REIT. In general, we intend that loans that we originate or buy with an intention of selling in a manner that might expose us to the 100% tax on “prohibited transactions” will be originated or sold by a TRS. In addition, loans that are to be modified will in general be held by a TRS on the date of their modification and for a period of time thereafter. Finally, some or all of the real estate properties that we may from time to time acquire by foreclosure or other procedure may be held in one or more TRSs. All taxable income and gains derived from the assets held from time to time in our TRSs will be subject to regular corporate income taxation. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our assets and operations. Under these provisions, any income that we generate from transactions intended to hedge our interest rate risk will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests if the instrument hedges interest rate risk on liabilities used to carry or acquire real estate assets, and such instrument is properly identified under applicable Treasury Regulations. Income from hedging transactions that do not meet these requirements will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of both the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRS would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our TRS will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the TRS. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and you could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for reduced tax rates available for some dividends. Legislation enacted in 2003 generally reduces the maximum tax rate for “qualified dividends” payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates to 15% (for taxable years beginning on or before December 31, 2010). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, and the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts, and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in stock of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. 34 There are uncertainties relating to the estimate of our special E&P distribution, which could result in our disqualification as a REIT. In order to remain qualified as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our stockholders all of our accumulated non-REIT tax earnings and profits, or E&P prior to the close of the taxable year. Immediately following the spin-off transaction but prior to the Merger, a special E&P distribution consisting of cash of approximately $16.0 million of cash and additional WIM equity interests was made to WIM’s interest holders. We believe that the amount of WIM’s special E&P distribution equaled or exceeded the amount of WIM’s subchapter C earnings and profits, and therefore we did not succeed to any such C corporation E&P as a result of the Merger. There are, however, substantial uncertainties relating to the determination of the amount of WIM’s E&P, including the possibility that the IRS could, in any audits for tax years through 2008, successfully assert that WIM or Walter Energy’s taxable income should be increased, which would increase WIM’s pre-Merger E&P. Thus, we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distributed all of our subchapter C E&P. Moreover, although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our subchapter C E&P, we cannot now determine whether we would be able to take advantage of them or the economic impact on us of doing so. Risks Relating to Our Relationship with Walter Energy We may have substantial additional liability for U.S. federal income tax allegedly owed by Walter Energy. Each member of a consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group for any year in which it is a member of the group at any time during such year. Accordingly, we could be liable under such provisions in the event any such liability is incurred, and not discharged by any other member of the Walter Energy-controlled group for any period during which we were included in the Walter Energy-controlled group. A controversy exists with regard to the U.S. federal income taxes allegedly owed by Walter Energy for fiscal years ended August 31, 1983 through May 31, 1994. WIM predecessor companies were included within Walter Energy during these years. According to Walter Energy’s most recent public filing, the amount of tax claimed by the IRS in an adversary proceeding in bankruptcy court, including interest and penalties, is substantial. Walter’s public filing further provides that Walter Energy believes that, should the IRS prevail on any issues in dispute, Walter Energy’s exposure is limited to interest and possible penalties and the amount of tax claimed will be offset by deductions in other years. In addition, Walter Energy’s most recent public filing disclosed that the IRS completed an audit of Walter Energy’s federal income tax returns for the years ended May 31, 2000 through December 31, 2005. WIM predecessor companies were included within Walter Energy during these years. The IRS issued 30-Day Letters to Walter Energy proposing changes for these tax years which Walter Energy has protested. Walter Energy’s filing states that the disputed issues in this audit period are similar to the issues remaining in the above-referenced dispute and therefore Walter Energy believes that its financial exposure for these years is limited to interest and possible penalties; however, we have no knowledge as to the extent of the claim. In addition, Walter Energy reports that the IRS has begun an audit of Walter Energy’s tax returns filed for 2006 through 2008, however, because the examination is in its early stages Walter Energy cannot estimate the amount of any resulting tax deficiency, if any. While Walter Energy is obligated to indemnify us against any such claims, as a matter of law, we are jointly and severally liable for any final tax determination, which means that in the event Walter Energy is unable to pay any amounts owed, we would be liable. Walter Energy disclosed in its public filing that it believes its filing positions have substantial merit and that they intend to defend vigorously any claims asserted, but there can be no assurance that Walter Energy is correct or that, if not, they will be able to pay the amount of the claims. 35 The tax separation agreement between us and Walter Energy allocates to us certain tax risks associated with the spin-off of the financing division and the Merger and imposes other obligations that may affect our business. Walter Energy effectively controlled all of our tax decisions for periods during which we were a member of the Walter Energy consolidated U.S. federal income tax group and certain combined, consolidated, or unitary state and local income tax groups. Under the terms of the tax separation agreement between Walter Energy and WIM dated April 17, 2009, WIM generally computes WIM’s tax liability for purposes of its taxable years ended December 31, 2008 and April 16, 2009, on a stand-alone basis, but Walter Energy has sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including tax audits) relating to WIM’s U.S. federal income and combined state returns, to file all such returns on WIM’s behalf and to determine the amount of WIM’s liability to (or entitlement to payment from) Walter Energy for such periods. This arrangement may result in conflicts of interests between us and Walter Energy. In addition, the tax separation agreement provides that if the spin-off is determined not to be tax-free pursuant to Section 355 of the Code, WIM (and therefore we) generally will be responsible for any taxes incurred by Walter Energy or its stockholders if such taxes result from certain of our actions or omissions or for a percentage of any such taxes that are not a direct result of either our or Walter Energy’s actions or omissions based upon a designated allocation formula. Additionally, to the extent that Walter Energy was unable to pay taxes, if any, attributable to the spin-off and for which it is responsible under the tax separation agreement, we could be liable for those taxes as a result of WIM being a member of the Walter Energy consolidated group for the year in which the spin-off occurred. Moreover, the tax separation agreement obligates WIM to take certain tax positions that are consistent with those taken historically by Walter Energy. In the event we do not take such positions, we could be liable to Walter Energy to the extent our failure to do so results in an increased tax liability or the reduction of any tax asset of Walter Energy. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 