Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below, among others, could cause GeoEye’s actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. A substantial portion of our revenues are generated from contracts with U.S. government agencies. Termination of these contracts at any given time could materially reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business. Revenues from U.S. Government contracts accounted for approximately 39% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. U.S. government agencies may terminate or suspend their contracts at any time, with or without cause, or may change their policies, priorities or funding levels by reducing agency or program budgets or by imposing budgetary constraints. Our primary contract with the U.S. Government, through the NGA, is the NextView imagery contract. In the contract, NGA originally agreed to order approximately $197.1 million of imagery products beginning February 1, 2007 and continuing six quarters after the GeoEye-1 satellite’s expected in service date. The contract was subsequently modified in December 2008 to accommodate launch delays and to establish a SLA whereby we provide a range of products and services rather than simply selling square kilometers of imagery. Further, the period of performance was changed to run through November 30, 2009 at a rate of $12.5 million per month. Although we anticipate that the U.S. Government will either extend this contract or enter into a new contract before the end of the current period of performance, we cannot guarantee and there can be no assurances that they will continue to purchase at pre-termination levels or at all. If a U.S. government agency terminates or suspends any of its contracts with us, or changes its policies, priorities, or funding levels, these actions would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot estimate what effect, if any, the new administration in the U.S. will have on the demand for our products and services. Satellites have limited useful lives and are expensive to replace. Satellites have limited useful lives. We determine a satellite’s useful life, or its expected operational life, using a complex calculation involving the probabilities of failure of the satellite’s components from design or manufacturing defects, environmental stresses or other causes. The expected operational lives of our satellites are affected by a number of factors, including the quality of construction, the supply of fuel, the expected gradual environmental degradation of solar panels, the durability of various satellite components and the orbits in which the satellites are placed. Random failure of satellite components could cause damage to, or loss of, the use of a satellite before the end of its design life. In rare cases, electrostatic storms or collisions with other objects could damage our satellites. Such objects could include debris from exploded satellites and spent rocket stages, dead satellites and meteoroids. We cannot assure you that each satellite will remain in operation for its design life. We expect the performance of each satellite to decline gradually near the end of its design life. Our GeoEye-1 satellite was launched in September 2008 and has an expected operational life of seven years. IKONOS was fully depreciated in June 2008. A study that was completed in August of 2008 by the IKONOS manufacturer resulted in a revised life expectancy for IKONOS to the 2010+ timeframe. Based on that study, we currently expect to continue commercial operations with IKONOS through that timeframe. However, we can offer no assurance that IKONOS will maintain its prescribed orbit or remain commercially operational. Despite the fact that OrbView-2’s operational life has expired, we currently expect to continue commercial operations with OrbView-2 in 2009. Due to factors listed above, we cannot guarantee the use of OrbView-2 throughout 2009 or beyond. Replacing a satellite is expensive. We anticipate using funds generated from operations to develop plans for future high-resolution imagery satellites. If we do not generate sufficient funds from operations or we cannot obtain financing from outside sources, we will not be able to deploy new satellites to replace GeoEye-1 at the end of its design life. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient funds from operations or to raise 15 additional capital, on favorable terms or on a timely basis, if at all, to develop or deploy follow-on high-resolution satellites. We cannot assure you that our satellites will operate as designed. We may experience in-orbit satellite failures or degradations in performance that could impair the commercial performance of our satellites, which could lead to lost revenue, an increase in our operating expenses, lower operating income or lost backlog. Our satellites employ advanced technologies and sensors that are subject to severe environmental stresses in space that could affect the satellite’s performance. Hardware component problems in space could lead to degradation in performance or loss of functionality of the satellite, with attendant costs and revenue losses. In addition, human operators may execute improper implementation commands that negatively impact a satellite’s performance. We cannot assure you that our satellites in orbit will continue to operate successfully throughout their expected remaining lives. Even if a satellite is operated properly, minor technical flaws in the satellite’s sensors could significantly degrade their performance, which could materially affect our ability to market our products successfully. Our business model depends on our ability to sell imagery from our high-resolution satellites. We do not presently have plans to construct and launch a replacement satellite for IKONOS or OrbView-2 if either fails prematurely. Although we are developing the GeoEye-2 satellite program, which will take approximately three to four years to complete, GeoEye-2 cannot be considered a near-term replacement if the GeoEye-1 satellite were to fail. Any failure of our satellites or any interference with such satellites’ commercial operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. New or proposed satellites are subject to construction and launch delays, the occurrence of which can materially and adversely affect our operations. We have in the past experienced delays in satellite construction and launch which have adversely affected our operations. Such delays can result from the delays in the construction of satellites and launch vehicles, the periodic unavailability of reliable launch opportunities, possible delays in obtaining regulatory approvals and launch failures. A significant delay in the future delivery of any satellite may also adversely affect our marketing strategy for the satellite. If satellite construction schedules are not met, a launch opportunity may not be available at the time a satellite is ready to be launched. Further, any significant delay in the commencement of service of any of our satellites could enable customers who pre-purchased or agreed to utilize capacity on the satellite to terminate their contracts and could affect our plans to replace an in-orbit satellite prior to the end of its service life. Delays in the launch of a satellite intended to replace an existing satellite that results in the existing satellite reaching its end of life before being replaced could result in loss of business to the extent an in-orbit backup is not available. We operate in a highly competitive and specialized industry and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, which could result in loss of our market share. Our products and services compete with satellite and aircraft-based imagery and related products and services offered by a range of private and government providers. Certain of these competitors may have greater financial, personnel and other resources than us. Our major existing U.S. competitor for high-resolution satellite imagery is DigitalGlobe, Inc., a privately held commercial vendor of space imagery and geospatial content, and operator of civilian remote sensing spacecraft. DigitalGlobe currently operates two high-resolution satellites, Quickbird, launched in 2001, and WorldView-1, launched in September 2007 under NGA’s NextView program. DigitalGlobe announced that its WorldView-2 satellite is anticipated for launch in mid-2009. Both WorldView satellites have higher resolutions and more advanced technologies than our IKONOS satellite. Both WorldView satellites and GeoEye-1 can produce 0.5 meter imagery (the highest resolution that may be made available to non-U.S. Government customers) though WorldView-1 does not have the ability to produce color images. Historically we had a competitive advantage over 16 DigitalGlobe regarding international markets because our high resolution satellites had the capability to directly download imagery to customers’ ground stations. However, the WorldView satellites now have the same capabilities. Current and future international competitors for high-resolution satellite imagery customers include Spot Image SA (France), India’s National Remote Sensing Agency, ImageSat International N.V. (Israel) and the governments of Korea and Taiwan. In addition, the following operators of radar satellites provide a different type of satellite information but they could be considered to compete with us in the international market: Cosmo-Skymed (Italy), TerraSar (Germany), and RADARSAT International (Canada). Many of our international competitors are either governmental agencies or receive funding from their governments which may allow them greater flexibility in pricing. We also compete with aerial and unmanned aerial vehicles (sometimes called UAVs). In the U.S., our aerial operations compete with several larger, better funded aerial imagery providers. Our competitors or potential competitors with greater resources than ours could in the future offer satellite-based imagery or other products having more attractive features than our products. The emergence of new remote imaging technologies, even if not ultimately successful, could negatively affect our ability to successfully penetrate existing or new markets using our existing technologies and retain our client base. U.S. and foreign governmental agencies may build and operate their own systems which could affect our current and potential market share of our products and services. The U.S. Government and/or foreign government agencies might develop, construct, launch and operate remote imaging satellites that generate non-classified imagery products and services similar to GeoEye’s. These products and services could cause a decrease in the demand of U.S. and foreign governments to purchase our products and services. In addition, such governmental agencies could sell imagery from their governmental satellites, which could also cause a decrease in demand for our imagery products. The U.S. Government currently relies and is likely to continue to rely on government-owned and operated systems for classified satellite-based high-resolution imagery. The U.S. Government could reduce its purchases from commercial satellite imagery providers or decrease the number of companies to which it contracts with no corresponding increase in the total amount spent. Any reduction in purchasers of our products and services by the U.S. Government could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The success of our products and services will depend on market acceptance. Our success depends on existing markets accepting our imagery products and services and our ability to develop new markets. Our business plan is based on the assumption that we will generate significant future revenues from sales of high-resolution imagery produced by GeoEye-1 and IKONOS to our existing markets and to potentially new markets. The commercial availability of high-resolution satellite imagery is still a fairly new market. Consequently, it is difficult to predict accurately the ultimate size of the market and the market acceptance of our products and services. Our strategy to target certain markets for our satellite imagery relies on a number of assumptions, some or all of which may be incorrect. The actual market for our products and services could vary materially from the potential markets that we have identified causing us to miss opportunities. Market acceptance of our high-resolution satellite imagery products depends on a number of factors, including the spatial and spectral quality, scope, timeliness, sophistication and price and services and the availability of substitute products and services. Lack of significant market acceptance of our products and services particularly our high-resolution imagery products and services, delays in acceptance, or failure of certain markets to develop would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Foreign distributors and domestic value-added resellers may not expand our commercial markets. We rely on foreign regional distributors to market and sell our imagery from the GeoEye-1 and IKONOS satellites internationally. We are currently intensifying our efforts to develop further our current and future operations in international markets. These regional distributors may not have the skill or experience to develop 17 regional commercial markets for our products and services. If we fail to enter into regional distribution agreements or if our foreign regional distributors fail to market and sell our imagery products and services abroad successfully, these failures could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on value-added resellers to develop, market and sell our products and services to address certain target markets, including domestic markets, which may be vertical markets in defined industries or geographical markets. If our value-added resellers fail to develop, market and sell our products and services successfully, this failure could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance coverage may be more difficult and costly to obtain or maintain. The terms of our Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes due 2012 (Notes) require, and we believe that the issuance of any future notes will require, us to obtain launch and on-orbit insurance on GeoEye-1 and other subsequent satellites we construct and launch. Due to these covenants, we must maintain specified levels of on-orbit operations insurance for GeoEye-1, to the extent that such coverage can be obtained at a premium that is not disproportionately high. We have currently secured $320.0 million of insurance coverage for GeoEye-1. This insurance is not sufficient to cover the cost of a replacement high-resolution imagery satellite such as GeoEye-1. We also carry $20.0 million of insurance coverage on the IKONOS satellite, but we do not carry any insurance coverage for the OrbView-2 satellite. A partial or complete failure of a revenue-producing satellite, whether insured or not, could require additional, unplanned capital expenditures, an acceleration of planned capital expenditures, interruptions in service, a reduction in contracted backlog and lost revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance market conditions or factors outside our control at a time when we would seek required insurance, such as failure of a satellite using similar components or a similar launch vehicle, could cause premiums to be significantly higher than current estimates. Higher premiums on insurance policies will increase our costs. Should the future terms of launch and on-orbit insurance policies become less favorable than those currently available, this may result in limits on amounts of coverage that we can obtain or may prevent us from obtaining insurance at all. Any failure to obtain required insurance could cause a default under our current debt obligation. The global financial crisis may impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continuing credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial condition. In particular, the cost of capital has increased substantially while the availability of funds from the capital markets has diminished significantly. Accordingly, our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted or be available only on terms we do not consider favorable. Limited access to the capital markets could adversely impact our ability to take advantage of business opportunities or react to changing economic and business conditions and could adversely impact our strategy. The current economic situation could have an impact on our customers, causing them to fail to meet obligations to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results from operations and cash flows. State and local governments may be more vulnerable to the economic downturn, so our MJ Harden operations may face greater exposure to this risk. The uncertainty and volatility of the global financial crisis may have further impacts on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows that we currently cannot predict or anticipate. Our business is capital intensive, and we may not be able to raise adequate capital to finance our business strategies, or we may be able to do so only on terms that significantly restrict our ability to operate our business. Implementation of our business strategy requires a substantial outlay of capital. As we pursue our business strategies and seek to respond to opportunities and trends in our industry, our actual capital expenditures may differ from our expected capital expenditures and there can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy our capital 18 requirements in the future. We currently expect that the majority of our liquidity requirements in 2009 will be satisfied by cash on hand, cash generated from our operations, and possible external financing. However, we cannot provide assurances that our businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to execute our business strategy. If we determine we need to obtain additional funds through external financing and are unable to do so, we may be prevented from fully implementing our business strategy. Lending institutions have suffered and may continue to suffer losses due to their lending and other financial relationships, especially because of the general weakening of the global economy. As a result, changes in the financial markets may impact our ability to obtain new financing or refinance our existing debt on commercially reasonable terms and in adequate amounts, if at all. In particular, the construction of our GeoEye-2 satellite will require significant capital, and the timing of the construction will vary depending on our ability to raise the necessary capital on terms which we deem to be acceptable. We can provide no assurance that our businesses will be able to raise sufficient capital to allow for the construction of the GeoEye-2 satellite. Failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals could result in service interruptions or could impede us from executing our business plan. U.S. Government Approvals. Operation of our satellites requires licenses from the U.S. Department of Commerce (DoC). The failure to obtain these licenses, or the revocation of one or more licenses, could adversely affect our ability to conduct and generate revenue from these operations. The DoC licenses provide that the U.S. Government may interrupt service or otherwise limit our ability to distribute satellite images to certain parties in order to address national security or foreign policy concerns or because of the international obligations of the U.S. Actual or threatened interruptions or limitations on our service could adversely affect our ability to market our products. In addition, the DoC has the right to review and approve our agreements with foreign entities, including contracts with international customers for high-resolution imagery. We have received such approvals for the agreements in place with our existing international customers. However, such reviews could delay or prohibit us from executing new international agreements. In connection with customer agreements, we have in the past and may in the future supply our international customers with earth stations that enable these customers to downlink data directly from our satellites. Exporting these earth stations and technical information relating to these stations may require us to obtain export licenses from the DoC or the U.S. Department of State. If the DoC or the U.S. Department of State does not issue these export licenses in connection with future exports, or if these licenses are significantly delayed or contain restrictions, or if the DoC or the U.S. Department of State revokes, suspends or denies a request for renewal of existing licenses, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely effected. Our operation of satellites and earth stations also requires licenses from the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. The FCC regulates the construction, launch and operation of our satellites, the use of satellite spectrum and the licensing of our earth station terminals located within the United States. We currently have all required FCC licenses necessary to operate our business as it is currently conducted. However, these licenses have expiration dates which are expected to occur while the satellites and ground systems are still in use. The FCC generally renews licenses routinely, but there can be no assurance that our licenses will be renewed at their expiration dates for full terms or without adverse conditions. Failure to renew these licenses could have a material adverse affect on our ability to generate revenue and conduct our business as currently planned. International Registration and Approvals. The use of satellite spectrum is subject to the requirements of the International Telecommunication Union. Additionally, satellite operators must abide by the specific laws of the countries in which downlink services are provided from the satellite to earth station terminals within such countries. Our customers or distributors are responsible for obtaining local regulatory approval from the governments in the countries in which they receive imagery downlinked directly from our satellites to earth stations within such countries. If these regional distributors are not successful in obtaining the necessary approvals, we will not be able to distribute real time imagery in those regions and this inability to offer real time service in a foreign country could negatively affect our business. In addition, regulatory provisions in countries where we wish to operate may impose unduly burdensome restrictions on our operations. Our business may also be adversely affected if the national 19 authorities where we plan to operate adopt treaties, regulations or legislation unfavorable to foreign companies or limiting the provision of our products and services. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting resulted in material misstatements in our financial statements that required us to restate certain of our historical financial statements. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our business and the trading prices of our securities. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, upon management’s recommendation, has determined to restate certain of our historical financial statements and other financial information. Our management concluded that the accounting errors that necessitated the restatement resulted from control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting constituting material weaknesses. Specifically, our management concluded that we: (i) had inadequate and ineffective controls over the periodic financial close process; and; (ii) did not maintain effective controls over the accuracy and valuation of the provision for income taxes. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” Management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 identified two material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As described in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures — Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,” we have not yet fully remediated these material weaknesses. Until they are fully remediated, these material weaknesses could lead to errors in our reported financial results and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our business and the trading prices of our securities. Further, we cannot assure you that additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, and cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated under Section 404. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. Our international business exposes us to risks relating to increased regulation and political or economic instability in foreign markets. In 2008, approximately 48% of our total revenues were derived from international sales, and we intend to continue to pursue international contracts. We expect to derive substantial revenues from international sales of our products and services. International operations are subject to certain risks, such as: • changes in domestic and foreign governmental regulations and licensing requirements; • deterioration of relations between the U.S. and a particular foreign country; • increases in tariffs and taxes and other trade barriers; • changes in political and economic stability, including fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, which may make payment in U.S. dollars, as provided for under our existing contracts, more expensive for foreign customers; and • difficulties in obtaining or enforcing judgments in foreign jurisdictions. These risks are beyond our control and could have a material adverse effect on our business. 20 Our success depends upon a limited number of key personnel. Our success depends on attracting, retaining and motivating highly skilled professionals. A number of our employees are highly skilled engineers and other professionals. In addition, our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of the members of our senior management. If we fail to continue to attract, retain and motivate such professionals, our ability to compete in the industry could be adversely affected. Fluctuations in our operating results could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including, without limitation: • risks and uncertainties affecting the current and proposed business of GeoEye and the imagery-derived products and processing service satellite industry; • increased competition in the industry; and • general economic conditions. As a result of these possible fluctuations, period-to-period comparisons of our financial results may not be reliable indicators of future performance. The price of our common stock has been volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. In recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies in the technology sector. In particular, over the last 12 months, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for small companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance or prospects for future operations. These broad fluctuations may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Future market movements may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently expect to retain our future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. We are prohibited from paying dividends under instruments governing our long-term debt until the principal amount of all such notes has been repaid. Paying our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash and may impair our liquidity and financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, we had $247.5 million of long-term debt. This debt will mature on July 1, 2012 though certain redemptions prior to that date may be required under the terms of the debt. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund operations and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are and will remain beyond our control. Additionally, our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, and other general corporate purposes; and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. 21 Government audits of our contracts could result in a material charge to our earnings and have a negative effect on our cash position following an audit adjustment. Our government contracts are subject to cost audits which may occur several years after the period to which the audit relates. If an audit identifies significant unallowable costs, we could incur a material charge to our earnings or reduction in our cash position. Our effective income tax rate may vary. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations and/or rates; the results of any tax examinations; changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations; changes in estimates of prior years’ items; acquisitions; changes in our corporate structure; and changes in overall levels of income before taxes. All of these factors may result in periodic revisions to our effective income tax rate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 