Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Company We have historically incurred operating losses, and we expect that these losses will continue. We have historically incurred substantial operating losses due to our research and development activities and expect these losses to continue for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $122.6 million. Net losses for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 were $38.1 million. Our fiscal year 2005 and 2004 net losses were $59.1 million and $12.0 million, respectively. We intend to continue research and development activities with respect to our product candidates. We expect to expend significant amounts on research and development programs, including those relating to bevirimat. The bevirimat clinical trial program is being conducted in various geographic locations, and clinical studies may occur in other geographic markets. In addition, we expect that, as bevirimat progresses through the late-stage Phase 2 trial currently underway and into planned Phase 3 trials, bevirimat development expenses will increase. In parallel to the bevirimat clinical development activities, we expect increased expenditures for pre-commercial activities, such as planning for, and preliminary investments in, the scale-up of manufacturing of the drug, and marketing and distribution of the drug both in the U.S. and internationally. As our second generation maturation inhibitor program and our fusion inhibitor program move into clinical trials, we also expect increased expenditures in those programs. We will actively seek new financing from time to time to provide financial support for our activities. We also plan to evaluate potential development and commercial collaborations with strategic partners, which may fund part or all of the late-stage clinical development of bevirimat. These activities will take time and expense, both to identify the best partners and reach agreement on terms, and to negotiate and sign definitive agreements. At this time, we are not able to assess the probability of success in our financing efforts or in identifying suitable commercial collaborators or the terms, if any, under which we may secure financial support, obtain revenues or reduce research and development expenses as a result of any collaborations with strategic partners. We expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We will need additional capital in the future, but our access to such capital is uncertain. Our current resources are insufficient to fund all of our planned development and commercialization efforts. As of December 31, 2006, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $60.8 million. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we closed a follow-on public offering, raising approximately $81.0 million in net proceeds, and issued 8.25 million shares of our common stock. At our current level of expenditure, we believe that our cash resources are adequate to meet our requirements through 2008. Our capital needs will depend on many factors, including our research and development activities, the scope and timing of our clinical trial programs, the timing of regulatory approval for our products under development and the successful commercialization of our products. Our needs may also depend on the magnitude and scope of these activities, the progress and the level of success in our clinical trials, the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights, competing technological and market developments, changes in or terminations of existing collaboration and licensing arrangements, the establishment of new collaboration and licensing arrangements and the cost of manufacturing scale-up and development of marketing activities, if undertaken by us. We do not have committed external sources of funding. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to: • delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs; 16 Table of Contents • obtain funds through arrangements with collaboration partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to retain in order to develop or commercialize them ourself; • license rights to technologies, product candidates or products on terms that are less favorable to us than might otherwise be available; or • seek a buyer for all or a portion of our business, or wind down our operations and liquidate our assets. We intend to actively seek new financing from time to time to provide financial support for our activities. We have an effective shelf registration statement on file with the SEC pursuant to which we may sell up to $113 million of our common stock and warrants at our discretion, subject to certain limits under federal securities laws and the rules of the NASDAQ Global Market. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional stock, further dilution to our stockholders may result, and new investors could have rights superior to existing stockholders. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our products, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success will depend on the products which we are and will be developing, but may be unable to commercialize due to numerous factors, including clinical trial outcomes and regulatory requirements imposed on both us and our collaborators and customers. The success of our business will depend on our successful development and commercialization of our products. Successful commercialization of our products under development depends, in significant part, on our ability to: • complete their development in a timely fashion; • demonstrate their safety and efficacy in clinical trials; • obtain and maintain patents or other proprietary protections; • obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals; • implement efficient, commercial-scale manufacturing processes; • obtain approval for reimbursement under health care systems; and • establish and maintain effective development, sales, marketing, and distribution operations and collaborations. Bevirimat is our only product that has reached Phase 2 clinical trials. Bevirimat has not been approved by the FDA for marketing in the U.S. or by regulatory authorities in other countries. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Satisfaction of pre-market approval or other regulatory requirements of the FDA, or similar requirements of non-U.S. regulatory agencies, typically takes several years, depending upon the type, complexity, novelty and intended purpose of the product. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, we spent approximately $24.5 million on research and development. During fiscal years 2005 and 2004, we spent approximately $19.8 million and $11.1 million on research and development, respectively. To obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our product candidates, we or our collaborators must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective. We or our collaborators may delay our development programs or suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time for various reasons, including regulatory actions by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies, actions by institutional review boards, failure to comply with good clinical practice requirements, failure to demonstrate clinical efficacy and concerns regarding health risks to the subjects of clinical tests. In 2005, we discontinued our development of a product, the INACTINE ™ Pathogen Reduction System, which had been in Phase 3 clinical trials, due to concerns that we would not be successful in addressing certain clinical and regulatory considerations in an economically feasible manner within a commercially reasonable time frame. 17 Table of Contents Delays in our clinical development program or in approval from government authorities will lengthen our product development time, increase our product development costs and may impair our ability to commercialize our products and allow competitors to bring products to market before we do. For example, in December 2006, we announced results of the first cohort of our Phase 2b study which showed bevirimat plasma concentrations lower than we anticipated, suggesting that the tablet formulation used for the study did not provide the expected drug exposures. We believe that additional development work required as a result of this formulation issue may cause a delay of between three and twelve months in the initiation of bevirimat pivotal trials, although the delay could be longer than twelve months and the formulation issues may not be resolvable by us at all. We have agreed to a revised trial design with the FDA, which will enable us to continue bevirimat dose escalation in the Phase 2b trial while we continue to develop an optimized formulation of bevirimat for late-stage development and commercialization. Even if our products receive approval for commercial sale, their manufacture, storage, marketing and distribution are and will be subject to extensive and continuing regulation in the U.S. by the federal government, especially the FDA, and state and local governments. The failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action, including, without limitation, withdrawal of approval, which would materially harm our business. Later discovery of problems with our products may result in additional restrictions on the product, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Regulatory authorities may also require post-marketing testing, which can involve significant expenses. Additionally, governments may impose new regulations, which could further delay or preclude regulatory approval of our products or result in significantly increased compliance costs. In similar fashion to the FDA, foreign regulatory authorities require demonstration of product quality, safety and efficacy prior to granting authorization for product registration, which allows for distribution of the product for commercial sale. International organizations, such as the World Health Organization, and foreign government agencies, including those in the Americas, Middle East, Europe, and Asia and the Pacific, have laws, regulations and guidelines for reporting and evaluating the data on safety, quality and efficacy of new drug products. Although most of these laws, regulations and guidelines are very similar, each of the individual nations reviews all of the information available on the new drug product and makes an independent determination with respect to product registration. We cannot assure you that our efforts to develop and commercialize bevirimat, which is still in Phase 2 clinical trials, will succeed. Bevirimat is our only product that has completed proof-of-concept Phase 2a clinical trials. As a result, any investment in us depends heavily on our efforts to develop and commercialize bevirimat. Bevirimat is still in Phase 2 clinical trials and involves a high degree of development, technical, regulatory and other risks. In our Phase 2b clinical trial, we are studying bevirimat at doses higher than those we have previously studied in clinical trials. We have performed pre-clinical single and multiple dose toxicity studies in animals. In these studies, we have not observed side effects that would prevent our planned testing of bevirimat. Adverse events were observed in marmosets, a species of monkey, and in rats at doses significantly higher than those planned for the Phase 2b clinical trial. The absence of particular side effects in animal studies does not mean that these side effects will not be observed in humans. The results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure that results obtained in later-stage clinical trials of bevirimat will be satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We initiated a Phase 2b trial of bevirimat at multiple clinical sites in the U.S. during the second quarter of 2006, based on a design agreed on with the FDA. Completion of clinical trials may be delayed by slow initiation of clinical sites, slower than anticipated patient enrollment, negative or inconclusive clinical results or other adverse or unanticipated circumstances occurring during the clinical trials. Therefore, we cannot ensure that clinical trials will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain required marketing approvals on a timely basis, if at all. 18 Table of Contents In our Phase 2b clinical trial, we have provided, and may continue to provide, bevirimat to HIV patients in a tablet or other dosage form that we have not previously used in clinical trials. Previous clinical studies in HIV patients used an orally administered liquid solution formulation of bevirimat. In the results of the first cohort of the Phase 2b study announced in December 2006, bevirimat plasma concentrations were lower than we anticipated, suggesting that the tablet formulation used for that study did not deliver the drug as expected. Development of an acceptable dosage form that adequately delivers bevirimat to patients on extended dosing may cause delays or may not be possible. Failure to develop a solid dosage form may limit the market for bevirimat. Positive results from pre-clinical and early clinical trials should not be relied upon as evidence that later or larger-scale clinical trials will succeed. Initial clinical trials of bevirimat have been conducted only in small numbers of patients for short periods of dosing that may not fully represent the diversity present in larger populations infected with HIV or the results of long-term drug administration. Therefore, the limited results we obtained may not predict results from more prolonged studies in larger numbers of patients drawn from more diverse populations. These initial trials were not designed to assess the long-term efficacy of bevirimat. We will be required to demonstrate through larger-scale clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in a diverse population before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. There is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials. If bevirimat or any other product candidate fails to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in any clinical trial, we would experience potentially significant delays in, or could be required to abandon development of that product candidate. If we delay or abandon our development efforts related to bevirimat, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable, and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged, each of which would cause the stock price to decrease significantly. If we fail to establish relationships with strategic collaborators and distributors, we may be unable to market our products. We intend to pursue strategic collaborations as a possible way to obtain development, sales, marketing and distribution support and financial support in the development of our products. We may require marketing and distribution partners for the commercialization of our products. If we fail to develop new strategic partnerships for these purposes, the failure could delay or possibly inhibit the commercialization of our products. For example, in order to effectively market our products outside the U.S., we may need to secure foreign marketing partners who have a strong presence in such foreign markets. Securing new corporate collaborators is a time-consuming process, and we cannot guarantee that the negotiations with new collaborators will yield positive results. Even if we find additional corporate collaborators to assist in the commercialization of existing or new product candidates, the terms of the arrangements may not be favorable or acceptable to us. If we do not successfully distinguish and commercialize our product candidates, we may be unable to compete successfully or to generate revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. The biotechnology industry, including the fields of therapeutic products to treat HIV and serious infections, is highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. Accordingly, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond quickly to such change through the development and introduction of new products. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, greater experience in conducting pre-clinical studies, clinical trials and other regulatory approval procedures, as well as in marketing their products. Major competitors in the market for HIV drugs include large, publicly-traded pharmaceutical companies, such as Abbott, GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Pfizer, Roche, Merck, Johnson & Johnson and Gilead, public biotechnology companies, such as Trimeris, Incyte, Progenics, Achillion, Avexa and Vertex, and private development stage companies, such as Pharmasset. If we or 19 Table of Contents our corporate partners commence commercial product sales, we or our corporate partners will be competing against companies with substantial and possibly greater marketing, selling and manufacturing capabilities. Our ability to compete successfully against currently existing and future alternatives to our product candidates and systems, and competitors who compete directly with us in the biopharmaceutical industry will depend, in part, on our ability to: • attract and retain skilled scientific and research personnel; • develop technologically superior products; • develop competitively priced products; • obtain patent or other required regulatory approvals for our products; • be early entrants to the market; and • manufacture, market and sell our products, independently or through collaborations. Third-party reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to commercialize and sell our products and services. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products depends, in part, on the extent to which appropriate levels of reimbursement for our products and related treatments are obtained from government authorities, private health insurers, third party payers, and other organizations, such as managed care organizations, or MCOs. Any failure by doctors, hospitals and other users of our products or systems to obtain appropriate levels of reimbursement could adversely affect our ability to sell our potential products. Federal legislation, enacted in December 2003, has altered the way in which physician-administered drug programs covered by Medicare are reimbursed, generally leading to lower reimbursement levels. The legislation also added an outpatient prescription drug benefit to Medicare, which became effective in 2006. These benefits are provided through private entities, which will attempt to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. These negotiations may increase pressures to lower prices. On the other hand, the drug benefit may increase the volume of pharmaceutical drug purchases, offsetting at least in part these potential price discounts. While the new law specifically prohibits the U.S. government from interfering in price negotiations between manufacturers and Medicare drug plan sponsors, some members of Congress are pursuing legislation that would permit de facto price controls on prescription drugs. In addition, the law triggers, for congressional consideration, cost containment measures for Medicare in the event Medicare cost increases exceed a certain level. These cost containment measures could include limitations on prescription drug prices. This legislation could adversely impact our ability to commercialize any of our products successfully. Significant uncertainty exists about the reimbursement status of newly approved medical products and services. Reimbursement in the U.S. or foreign countries may not be available for any of our products, reimbursement granted may not be maintained, and limits on reimbursement available from third-party payers may reduce the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, our products. We anticipate that we will need to work with a variety of organizations to lobby government agencies for improved reimbursement policies for our products. However, we cannot guarantee that such lobbying efforts will take place or that they will ultimately be successful. Our ability to successfully integrate the operations of V.I. Technologies, Inc. and Panacos following our merger in 2005 is uncertain and may involve additional costs. V.I. Technologies, Inc. and Panacos, each of which previously operated independently, are in the process of completing integration of their businesses following the merger that was effected in March 2005. Problems in integrating purchasing and financial reporting could result in control issues, including unplanned costs. Management may have its attention diverted or additional costs may be incurred while trying to integrate the two companies, or consolidate or rationalize the two facilities. Our two facilities are located in Watertown, 20 Table of Contents Massachusetts and Gaithersburg, Maryland. Such diversion of management’s attention or difficulties in the transition process could have an adverse impact on us. Most of the employees in the merged company work at either the Watertown facility or the Gaithersburg facility. The management team of the combined company has experience in attracting and retaining the technical personnel that will represent the majority of employees in the combined company. However, no assurance can be given that the combined company will succeed in its efforts to integrate the combined companies’ operations successfully without additional costs. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies, to obtain and enforce patents, to protect trade secrets, and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. We have patents and patent applications that claim critical technologies, including new chemical compounds. Currently, our patent estate in antiviral therapeutics includes nine issued U.S. patents and seventeen pending U.S. applications. Each of the U.S. applications and patents has one or more corresponding foreign applications or patents. In addition, we have exclusive licenses to patents and patent applications, including certain jointly owned patents, which claim technologies and compounds critical to our present business endeavors. We also seek to protect our proprietary technology, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and contractors. Patents, pending patent applications and licensed patents may not afford adequate protection against competitors, and any pending patent applications now or hereafter filed by or licensed to us may result in patents not being issued or may result in the issuance of patents having narrowed claim scope in relation to the originally filed applications. In addition, certain aspects of our technology rely on patented inventions developed using university or U.S. government resources. The U.S. government or universities may have certain rights, as defined by law or applicable agreements, in such patents, and may choose to exercise such rights. Under the terms of a license agreement with UNC, we are an exclusive licensee of certain technologies, including patents and patent applications that relate to certain of our product candidates, including bevirimat. This license agreement imposes various development, commercialization and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these and other requirements, our license could convert from exclusive to non-exclusive or terminate entirely. Currently, we are in compliance with the terms of the license agreement, and we do not have any reason to believe that the license may be converted from exclusive status to non-exclusive status or be terminated. We cannot be certain that UNC’s, or any other third party’s, confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others, disputes may arise as to the rights related to or resulting from the use of such intellectual property. In our agreements with contractors, we seek warranties that the intellectual property rights of third parties will not be infringed. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty their enforceability. One family of patent applications relating to mechanism of action, which claims methods of inhibiting viral maturation as well as methods and compositions useful for identifying inhibitors of viral maturation, is co-owned with the PHS. In 2006, we entered into a license agreement with PHS, which grants us exclusive rights to these applications. This agreement expires in 2011. At any point prior to the expiration of that agreement, we may negotiate a royalty-bearing license with PHS granting us exclusive rights to these patent applications for a longer term. Currently, we are in compliance with the terms of this agreement and we do not have any reason to believe that the license may be terminated. While one patent in this family has issued, we are not able to provide assurance that other applications in this family will issue into patents. We may not be able to reach agreement on license terms or extensions of the current agreement on an acceptable or timely basis with PHS. We are a party to various license agreements that give us exclusive rights to use specified technologies applicable to research, development and commercialization of our product candidates, including bevirimat. The agreements pursuant to which such technology is used permit the licensors to terminate agreements in the event that certain 21 Table of Contents conditions are not met. If these conditions are not met and the agreements are terminated, our product development, research and commercialization efforts may be altered or delayed. Patents or patent applications, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Furthermore, our competitors may obtain patent protection for other technology that could limit our ability to use our technology or commercialize products that we may develop. We may or may not be granted patent term extensions and regulatory marketing exclusivities. If the period of market exclusivity is shorter than we anticipate, the results of our operations would be adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued or licensed to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how, or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation, opposition or interference proceedings could result in substantial additional costs and diversion of management focus. If we are ultimately unable to protect our technology, trade secrets or know-how, we may be unable to operate profitably. Although we have not been involved in any litigation and are not aware of any threatened litigation regarding patent issues or other intellectual property, or other related court challenges or legal actions, it is possible that we could be involved with such matters in the future. If we are unable to operate our business without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others, we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends on our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. We endeavor to follow developments in our field, and we do believe that we have freedom to operate with respect to our core technologies. To the extent that planned or potential products would infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties, we would need licenses under such patents or other intellectual property rights to continue development and marketing aspects of our products protected by those third party patents or other intellectual property rights. Any required licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we may need to design around other parties’ patents or we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. Litigation may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation, opposition or interference proceedings could result in substantial additional costs and diversion of management focus. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in defending against claims of infringement, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Our success depends on the continued services and on the performance of our senior management and scientific staff. The sudden and unexpected death of Dr. Samuel K. Ackerman, our former President and Chief Executive Officer, on June 14, 2006, caused some disruptions in our ordinary business activities and resulted in our making certain organizational adjustments in 2006. For example, Dr. Peyton J. Marshall, our Chief Financial Officer, also served as our Acting Chief Executive Officer until January 8, 2007 when we announced that Alan W. Dunton, M.D. had joined us as our Chief Executive Officer. In order to achieve our business objectives, we must identify, attract, retain and motivate personnel with experience in specific areas applicable to our technologies and product candidates. Organizational changes may result in turnover of senior management and scientific staff. We compete intensely for all of our personnel and we may be unable to achieve our personnel goals. Our failure to achieve any of these personnel goals or to retain other key members of senior management could seriously limit our ability to conduct our operations and achieve our business and financial objectives. 22 Table of Contents We use and generate hazardous materials in our research activities. Defending against any claims relating to the improper handling, storage, release or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. We are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens and wastes. It is possible that we will be required in the future to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations. The research and development activities to be undertaken by us involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals that may cause cancer, volatile solvents, radioactive materials and biological materials, including materials infected with various viruses, including the Human Immunodeficiency Virus, Human T-Cell Lyphotrophic Virus, and Simian Immunodeficiency Virus. In addition, our operations produce, and will continue to produce, hazardous waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standard prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our insurance limits and our cash resources. We have general liability insurance that covers our use of hazardous materials and chemicals. We have not been notified that we have been the subject of any investigation relating to the generation of hazardous materials in the past. We may face exposure to product liability claims. We may face exposure to product liability and other claims due to allegations that our products cause harm. These risks are inherent in the ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials relating to bevirimat as well as in other clinical trials of bevirimat, PA-1050040 and other second generation maturation inhibitors, fusion inhibitors or other products and in the testing, and future manufacturing and marketing of, our products. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance, such insurance may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage in the future at a reasonable cost, if at all. If we are unable to obtain product liability insurance in the future at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we could be inhibited in the commercialization of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We currently have a policy covering $10 million of product liability for our clinical trials. At present, none of our products are being sold by us or by a collaborator. The coverage will be maintained and limits reviewed from time to time as we progress to later stages of our clinical trials, initiate trials with different products and as the length of the trials and the number of patients enrolled in the trials changes. Risks Relating to Our Stock Our stock price is volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at a profit. We first publicly issued common stock on June 11, 1998 at $120.00 (as adjusted for our March 14, 2005 1:10 reverse stock split) per share in our initial public offering. Between March 11, 2005 and March 1, 2007 the closing sale price has ranged from a high of $10.78 per share to a low of $2.49. The market price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: • quarterly fluctuations in results of operations; • the announcement of new products or services by us or competitors; • sales of common stock by existing stockholders or the perception that these sales may occur; • adverse judgments or settlements obligating us to pay damages; • negative publicity; • loss of key personnel; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; and • clinical trial or regulatory developments in both the U.S. and foreign countries. 23 Table of Contents In addition, overall stock market volatility has often significantly affected the market prices of securities for reasons unrelated to a company’s operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has been commenced against companies that have experienced periods of volatility in the price of their stock. Securities litigation initiated against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could lead to the diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our development programs and our financial position. We have a large number of authorized but unissued shares of common stock, which our management may issue without further stockholder approval, thereby causing dilution of your holdings of our common stock. As of March 1, 2007, there were approximately 497.1 million shares of authorized but unissued shares of our common stock. Our management will continue to have broad discretion to issue shares of our common stock in a range of transactions, including capital-raising transactions, mergers, acquisitions, for anti-takeover purposes, and in other transactions, without obtaining stockholder approval, unless stockholder approval is required for a particular transaction under the rules of NASDAQ, Delaware law, or other applicable laws. We currently have no specific plans to issue shares of our common stock for any purpose. However, if our management determines to issue shares of our common stock from the large pool of such authorized but unissued shares for any purpose in the future without obtaining stockholder approval, your ownership position would be diluted without your further ability to vote on that transaction. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and may impair our ability to raise capital through additional offerings. We currently have outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1.4 million shares of our common stock. The shares issuable upon exercise of these warrants have been registered for resale, and thus could be sold at any time following their issuance. These shares represent approximately 3% of the total number of shares of our common stock that are currently outstanding. Sales of these shares in the public market, or the perception that future sales of these shares could occur, could have the effect of lowering the market price of our common stock below current levels and make it more difficult for us and our shareholders to sell our equity securities in the future. Our executive officers, directors and holders of more than 5% of our common stock collectively beneficially own approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2007. Their beneficial ownership includes approximately 1.6 million shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of vested stock options that could become available for immediate resale if such options were exercised. Sale or the availability for sale of shares of common stock by stockholders could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through an offering of additional equity securities. Anti-takeover provisions may frustrate attempts to replace our current management and discourage investors from buying our common stock. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated by-laws, as well as the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, reduce the power of stockholders generally, even those with a majority of the voting power, to remove incumbent directors and to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors without the support of the incumbent directors. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated by-laws provide that stockholder action may not be effected without a duly called meeting. Our restated certificate of incorporation and restated by-laws also do 24 Table of Contents not permit our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders. This effectively limits the ability of our stockholders to conduct any form of consent solicitation. Provisions of the DGCL, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated by-laws could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, control of us without approval of our Board of Directors, even if such acquisition were beneficial to other stockholders. Moreover, the provisions of the DGCL and our restated certificate of incorporation and restated by-laws relating to the removal of directors and the filling of vacancies on the Board of Directors preclude a third party from removing incumbent directors without cause and simultaneously gaining control of the Board of Directors by filling, with its own nominees, the vacancies created by removal. Such provisions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Such provisions also allow the Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock with rights superior to those of the common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 