Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following specific risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as these are important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all our potential risks or uncertainties. Some statements in this “Business” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are “forward-looking statements” and are qualified by the cautionary language regarding such statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements” under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below. The successful implementation of our business strategy depends on our ability to generate cash flows from our existing operations and other factors. We have refocused our business strategy on the development of resort and convention center hotels in selected locations in the United States and on our attractions properties, including the Grand Ole Opry, which are focused primarily on the country music genre. The success of our future operating results depends on our ability to implement our business strategy by successfully operating the Gaylord Opryland, the Gaylord Palms and the Gaylord Texan, by successfully developing and financing our proposed Gaylord National hotel project, and by further exploiting our attractions assets. Our ability to do this depends upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These include: • our ability to generate cash flows from existing operations; • our ability to hire and retain hotel management, catering and convention-related staff for our hotels; • our ability to capitalize on the strong brand recognition of certain of our Opry and Attractions assets; and • the continued popularity and demand for country music. If we are unable to successfully implement the business strategies described above, our cash flows and net income may be reduced. 11 Table of Contents Our hotel and convention business is subject to significant market risks. Our ability to continue to successfully operate our hotel and convention business is subject to factors beyond our control which could reduce the revenue and operating income of these properties. These factors include: • the desirability and perceived attractiveness of the Nashville, Tennessee, Orlando, Florida, and Dallas, Texas areas as tourist and convention destinations; • the ability of our proposed Gaylord National hotel project near Washington, D.C. to operate in a new market which is extremely competitive; • adverse changes in the national economy and in the levels of tourism and convention business that would affect our hotels; • our ability to continue to attract group convention business; • the opening of the Gaylord National or other new hotels could impact our group convention business at our existing hotel properties; • the highly competitive nature of the hotel, tourism and convention businesses in which the Gaylord Palms, the Gaylord Opryland and the Gaylord Texan operate; and • the susceptibility of our group convention business to reduced levels of demand during the year-end holiday periods, which we may not be able to offset by attracting sufficient general tourism guests. Unanticipated costs of hotels we open in new markets, including our Gaylord National hotel project, may reduce our operating income. As part of our growth plans, we may open or acquire new hotels in geographic areas in which we have little or no operating experience and in which potential customers may not be familiar with our business. As a result, we may have to incur costs relating to the opening, operation and promotion of those new hotel properties that are substantially greater than those incurred in other areas. Even though we may incur substantial additional costs with these new hotel properties, they may attract fewer customers than our existing hotels. As a result, the results of operations at new hotel properties may be inferior to those of our existing hotels. The new hotels may even operate at a loss. Even if we are able to attract enough customers to our new hotel properties to operate them at a profit, it is possible that those customers could simply be moving future meetings or conventions from our existing hotel properties to our new hotel properties. Thus, the opening of a new hotel property could reduce the revenue of our existing hotel properties and could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows. Our hotel development, including our Gaylord National hotel project, is subject to timing, budgeting and other risks. We intend to develop additional hotel properties as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. New project development has a number of risks, including risks associated with: • construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; • construction defects or noncompliance with construction specifications; • receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • other risks of construction described below; • development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; • so-called acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could delay the development of a project; • the availability and cost of capital; and • governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion. Our development projects may not be completed on time or within budget. Our plans to develop the Gaylord National hotel project are subject to numerous risks. Our plans to develop the Gaylord National hotel are subject to market conditions, the availability of financing, receipt of necessary building permits and other authorizations, and other factors, including those described in the preceding and following 12 Table of Contents risk factors. Because the project is in progress, and certain portions of the project have not been bid or contracted, we cannot be certain of the final costs of the project. As more fully described below in note 12 of our consolidated financial statements included herein, we have in place a guaranteed maximum price construction contract with our general contractor for the Gaylord National project covering the majority of the work to be performed at this project. As additional portions of the Gaylord National project are bid and contracted, they are being added to our existing guaranteed maximum price contract by way of amendment. Because we do not have the entire project under contract, there is a risk that the total construction cost for the project could increase beyond our current estimates or that the necessary contractors and subcontractors, as well as materials, will not be available. The anticipated costs and completion dates for the Gaylord National are based on budgets, designs, development and construction documents and schedule estimates that we have prepared with the assistance of architects and our general contractor and that are subject to change as the design, development and construction documents are finalized and more actual construction work is performed. A failure to complete the Gaylord National on budget or on schedule may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We intend to use cash flow from operations, our senior credit facility and/or governmental incentives to finance the costs of constructing and opening the Gaylord National. We may seek additional debt or equity financing for this or other projects. In addition, our senior credit facility requires the Gaylord National to be substantially completed by October 31, 2008 (subject to customary force majeure provisions) and currently limits the aggregate amount of capital expenditures made to complete the project. The failure to obtain the necessary financing, or to satisfy or receive waivers of the senior credit facility requirements, if necessary, could adversely affect our ability to construct the Gaylord National and any other hotel projects in the future. In addition, we do not have experience operating in the Washington, D.C. market. We cannot assure you that the project will be completed, that it will be opened on time or on budget, or that its future operations will be successful. There are significant risks associated with our planned construction projects, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from these planned projects. Our ongoing and future construction projects, such as the Gaylord National hotel project, as well as the expansion of the Gaylord Opryland and Gaylord Texan, entail significant risks. Construction activity requires us to obtain qualified contractors and subcontractors, the availability of which may be uncertain. Construction projects are subject to cost overruns and delays caused by events outside of our control, such as shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases and unavailability of construction materials or equipment. Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite materials, licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from governmental or regulatory authorities, construction defects or non-compliance with construction specification, could increase the total cost, delay, jeopardize or prevent the construction or opening of such projects or otherwise affect the design and features of the Gaylord National, Gaylord Opryland, Gaylord Texan or other projects. In addition, we will be required to obtain financing for development projects and to use cash flow from operations for development and construction. We may seek additional debt or equity financing for development and construction projects. We have no financing plans for projects other than the Gaylord National, and we do not know if any needed financing will be available on favorable terms. A downturn in general economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business operations are affected by national and local economic conditions. Recent events, including fallout from problems in the U.S. subprime mortgage market, indicate a potential near-term recession in the national economy. A recession or downturn in the national economy or in a region constituting a significant source of customers for any of our properties, or the public perception that a recession or downturn might occur, could result in fewer advance bookings, fewer transient customers visiting our properties, and/or guests spending less money at our properties, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations. While we believe that the large group customers that make up the core of our revenues are less susceptible to changes in economic conditions, there can be no assurance that a downturn in general economic conditions would not have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. We will be required to refinance our credit facility by March 2010, and there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our credit facility on acceptable terms. The revolving loan, letters of credit and term loan under our credit facility mature on March 9, 2010. Prior to this date, we will be required to refinance our credit facility in order to finance our ongoing capital needs. Our ability to refinance our credit facility on acceptable terms will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our degree of leverage, the value of our assets, borrowing restrictions which may be imposed by lenders and conditions in the credit markets at the time we refinance. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. 13 Table of Contents The acquisition of the La Cantera Resort may not be completed. As described above, we entered into a definitive purchase agreement dated November 19, 2007, pursuant to which we agreed to acquire the assets related to the La Cantera Resort. On January 21, 2008, we entered into an amendment to this purchase agreement which extended the closing date to April 30, 2008 (prior to the amendment, the closing date was scheduled to occur no later than January 31, 2008). The amendment also provided that the $10.0 million deposit previously paid by us to an escrow agent under the purchase agreement would be released to the seller, and that the deposit would be non-refundable to us except in connection with the voluntary and intentional default by sellers in their obligations to be performed on the closing date. In the event the transaction closes, the deposit will be credited toward the purchase price. The amendment conditioned the closing of the transactions under the purchase agreement on us arranging financing satisfactory to us in our sole discretion in order to fund the transaction. We are in the process of seeking an additional capital partner to complete this transaction. There is no assurance that we will be able to locate a suitable capital partner to complete this transaction or that this transaction will otherwise close. In the event that we do not find a suitable capital partner, it is anticipated that we will not close this transaction. We may be unable to successfully complete acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we may attempt to acquire other convention hotels or otherwise engage in acquisitions. We may be unable to find or consummate future acquisitions at acceptable prices and terms. We continue to evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of business, including those that could be material in size and scope. Acquisitions, including the possible acquisition of the La Cantera Resort, involve a number of special risks and factors, including: • the possible diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; • the potential inability to successfully pursue some or all of the anticipated revenue opportunities associated with the acquisitions; • the possible loss of the acquired business’s key employees; • the potential inability to achieve expected operating efficiencies in the acquired business’s operations; • the increased complexity and diversity of our operations after acquisitions compared to our prior operations; • the impact on our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and • unanticipated problems, expenses or liabilities. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses successfully (including the La Cantera Resort, if such transaction closes) and/or fail to realize the intended benefits of acquisitions, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, acquisitions may result in a substantial goodwill asset, which will be subject to an annual impairment analysis. If this goodwill were to be impaired in the future, it could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. Our development, management and/or acquisition of smaller hotel properties may be unsuccessful. As part of our strategy to capture a greater share of the meetings and convention business in the United States, we anticipate introducing Gaylord hotel properties smaller in size than our existing hotel properties. We may be unsuccessful in locating suitable smaller hotel properties to develop, manage and/or acquire. The self-contained destination experience of existing Gaylord hotel properties may not translate effectively to smaller hotel properties. Moreover, smaller hotel properties may be unsuitable for large group meeting and convention customers, and we may be unsuccessful in our ability to attract a sufficient number of group customers to these smaller hotel properties and rotate our existing group clients through these smaller hotel properties. In the event that our strategy of developing, managing and/or acquiring smaller hotel properties is not successful, our financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. Our real estate investments are subject to numerous risks. Because we own hotels and attractions properties, we are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property. The investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of income 14 Table of Contents earned and capital appreciation generated by the related properties, as well as the expenses incurred. In addition, a variety of other factors affect income from properties and real estate values, including governmental regulations, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. For example, new or existing real estate zoning or tax laws can make it more expensive and/or time-consuming to develop real property or expand, modify or renovate properties. When interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decreases. Similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult both to acquire and to sell real property. Finally, governments can, under eminent domain laws, take real property. Sometimes this taking is for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, equity real estate investments, such as the investments we hold and any additional properties that we may acquire, are relatively difficult to sell quickly. If our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our income will be reduced. Our hotel properties are concentrated geographically and our revenues and operating income could be reduced by adverse conditions specific to our property locations. Our existing hotel properties are located predominately in the southeastern United States. As a result, our business and our financial operating results may be materially affected by adverse economic, weather or business conditions in the Southeast. As a result of the sales of our ResortQuest business and Bass Pro Group, LLC equity interest, we are further dependent upon our Hospitality segment. During the second quarter of 2007, we completed the sale of our entire vacation rental property management segment, ResortQuest, as well as our equity interest in Bass Pro Group, LLC (the ResortQuest sale having occurred in two separate transactions, one for our ResortQuest Mainland business and another for our ResortQuest Hawaii business). As a result of these transactions, we are now highly dependent on the success of our Hospitality segment. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, 89.6% of our total revenue from continuing operations was generated from our Hospitality segment. If we fail to successfully operate and/or develop our hotel and convention business, our overall financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. We could become subject to claims in connection with the sales of our interests in ResortQuest Mainland, ResortQuest Hawaii and Bass Pro Group, LLC. In connection with the sales of our equity interests in ResortQuest Mainland, ResortQuest Hawaii and Bass Pro Group, LLC, we agreed to indemnify the purchasers of these interests for a number of matters, including the breach of our representations, warranties and covenants contained in the agreements related to those transactions. A material breach or inaccuracy of any of the representations, warranties and covenants in any of the agreements related to those transactions could lead to a claim against us. Any such claims could require us to pay substantial sums and incur related costs and expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Hospitality companies have been the target of class actions and other lawsuits alleging violations of federal and state law. Our operating income and profits may be reduced by legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of our employees or customers. In recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits have been instituted against us from time to time, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our properties are subject to environmental regulations that could impose significant financial liability on us. Environmental laws, ordinances and regulations of various federal, state, local and foreign governments regulate certain of our properties and could make us liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the properties we currently own or operate or those we previously owned or operated. Those laws could impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to develop, use, sell or rent the real property or to borrow using the real property as collateral. If we arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes, we could be liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up wastes at the disposal or treatment facility, even if we never owned or operated that facility. Other laws, ordinances and regulations could require us to manage, abate or remove lead- or asbestos-containing materials. Similarly, the operation and closure of storage tanks are often regulated by federal, state, local and foreign laws. Finally, certain laws, ordinances and regulations, particularly those 15 Table of Contents governing the management or preservation of wetlands, coastal zones and threatened or endangered species, could limit our ability to develop, use, sell or rent our real property. Any failure to attract, retain and integrate senior and managerial level executives could negatively impact our operations and development of our properties. Our future performance depends upon our ability to attract qualified senior executives, retain their services and integrate them into our business. Our future financial results also will depend upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial and marketing personnel in our different areas of operation. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and is likely to increase in the future. We compete for qualified personnel against companies with significantly greater financial resources than ours. We have certain minority equity interests over which we have no significant control, to or for which we may owe significant obligations and for which there is no readily available market, and these investments may not be profitable. We have minority investments in RHAC Holdings, LLC and Waipouli Holdings, LLC which are not liquid and over which we have little or no rights, or ability, to exercise the direction or control of the respective enterprises. In connection with these investments, we may have obligations under certain guarantees related to such investments. The ultimate value of each of these investments will be dependent upon the efforts of others over an extended period of time. The nature of our interests and the absence of a readily available market for those interests restrict our ability to dispose of them. Our lack of control over the management of these businesses and the lack of a readily available market to sell our interest in these businesses may cause us to recognize a loss on our investment in these businesses. These arrangements are subject to uncertainties and risks, including those related to conflicting joint venture partner interests and to our joint venture partners failing to meet their financial or other obligations. For further discussion of these investments, see note 5 of our consolidated financial statements included herein. We are subject to risks relating to acts of God, terrorist activity and war. Our operating income may be reduced by acts of God, such as natural disasters or acts of terror, in locations where we own and/or operate significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers. In January of 2007, the Army Corps of Engineers announced that the Wolf Creek Dam on Lake Cumberland in Kentucky was at high risk for structural failure. Although the Corps has announced it is taking immediate action, including lowering the water level at Lake Cumberland and making structural repairs to the dam, to reduce the chances of any type of flood, a significant portion of our Gaylord Opryland property in Nashville is in the Cumberland River flood plain and would be at risk if the Dam should fail. Some types of losses, such as from flood, earthquake, hurricane, terrorism and environmental hazards, may be either uninsurable or too expensive to justify insuring against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Similarly, wars (including the potential for war), terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity), political unrest and other forms of civil strife as well as geopolitical uncertainty may cause in the future our results to differ materially from anticipated results. The hospitality industry is heavily regulated, including with respect to food and beverage sales, employee relations and construction concerns, and compliance with these regulations could increase our costs and reduce our revenues and profits. Our hotel operations are subject to numerous laws, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and beverages, liquor service and health and safety of premises. We are also subject to laws regulating our relationship with our employees in areas such as hiring and firing, minimum wage and maximum working hours, overtime and working conditions. Although no employees at our hotels are currently represented by labor unions, labor union organizing activities may take place at any new hotel property we open. Additionally, we may in the future experience attempts to unionize employees at our existing hotels. A lengthy strike or other work stoppage at one of our hotels, or the threat of such activity, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The success of expanding our hotel operations also depends upon our obtaining necessary building permits and zoning variances from local authorities. Compliance with these laws is time intensive and costly and may reduce our revenues and operating income. Our substantial debt could reduce our cash flow and limit our business activities. We currently have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2007, we had $981.1 million of total debt and stockholders’ equity of $941.5 million. Our substantial amount of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: 16 Table of Contents • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the hospitality industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that are less leveraged; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for planned expansions of our existing properties and acquisitions of additional properties. In addition, the terms of our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our 8% senior notes and our 6.75% senior notes allow us to incur substantial amounts of additional debt subject to certain limitations. Any such additional debt could increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. Although our earnings were sufficient to cover fixed charges for the years-ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, our substantial leverage is evidenced by our earnings being insufficient to cover fixed charges by $41.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. At the time any principal amount of our indebtedness is due, we may not have cash available to pay this amount, and we may not be able to refinance this indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. We may incur additional debt in connection with our planned expansion of the Gaylord Opryland and/or Gaylord Texan, our development of the Gaylord National hotel project or any additional hotel development. The agreements governing our debt, including our 8% senior notes, our 6.75% senior notes and our senior credit facility, contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and could lead to acceleration of debt. Our existing financial agreements, including our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our 8% senior notes and our 6.75% senior notes, impose, and future financing agreements are likely to impose, operating and financial restrictions on our activities. Our senior credit facility requires us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios, including minimum consolidated net worth, minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratios, and our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our 8% senior notes and our 6.75% senior notes limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; • create liens; • redeem and/or prepay certain debt; • pay dividends on our stock to our stockholders or repurchase our stock or other equity interests; • make certain investments; • enter new lines of business; • engage in consolidations, mergers and acquisitions; • make certain capital expenditures; • use proceeds from any offering of securities, including the proceeds from this offering, to make capital expenditures in connection with the construction of Gaylord National; and • pay dividends and make other distributions from our subsidiaries to us. These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and maintain these financial tests and ratios. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity for the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. 17 Table of Contents Fluctuations in our operating results and other factors may result in decreases in our stock price. In recent periods, the market price for our common stock has fluctuated substantially. From time to time, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. We believe that the current market price of our common stock reflects expectations that we will be able to continue to operate our existing hotels profitably and to develop new hotel properties profitably. If we are unable to accomplish this, investors could sell shares of our common stock at or after the time that it becomes apparent that the expectations of the market may not be realized, resulting in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In addition to our operating results, the operating results of other hospitality companies, changes in financial estimates or recommendations by analysts, adverse weather conditions, increased construction costs, increased labor and other costs, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets or other developments affecting us or our industry, such as the terrorist attacks, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. We are a holding company and depend upon our subsidiaries’ cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. We are a holding company, and we conduct the majority of our operations through our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to meet our debt service obligations, including our obligations under the notes and our credit facility, substantially depends upon our subsidiaries’ cash flow and payment of funds to us by our subsidiaries as dividends, loans, advances or other payments. The payment of dividends and/or making of loans, advances or other payments by our subsidiaries will be subject to the approval of those subsidiaries’ boards, and our subsidiaries are not obligated to pay dividends or make loans, advances or other payments to us. Our subsidiaries’ ability to pay such dividends and/or make such loans, advances or other payments may also be restricted by, among other things, applicable laws and regulations and current and future debt agreements into which our subsidiaries may enter. To service our debt and pay other obligations, we will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us. Our ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, our debt, including our obligations under the notes and any future debt we may incur, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend largely upon our future operating performance and our ability to generate cash from operations. Our future performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future to make payments on our debt and other obligations will depend on the satisfaction of the covenants and financial ratios in our senior credit facility and our other debt agreements, including the indentures governing our 6.75% senior notes and our 8% senior notes and other agreements we may enter into in the future. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or we may not have future borrowings available to us under our senior credit facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. Our stock repurchase program could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. As described below, on February 7, 2008, we announced that our board of directors approved a stock repurchase program to repurchase up to $80 million of our common stock. Repurchases may be made in the open market, subject to prevailing stock prices, general economic and market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors. The existence of our stock repurchase program and any purchases under this program could result in an increase in the market price of our stock. In addition, purchases under this repurchase program could reduce the liquidity for our stock. Further, our repurchase program may be suspended at any time in our discretion, and any discontinuation could cause the market price of our stock to decline. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could make it difficult for a third party to acquire our company. The Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company or our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions: • authorize us to issue “blank check’’ preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors, without stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of common stock; • provide that directors may only be removed with cause by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes of shares entitled to vote thereon; • establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for 18 Table of Contents proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at meetings; • provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by our chairman or by majority of the members of our board of directors; • impose restrictions on ownership of our common stock by non-United States persons due to our ownership of a radio station; and • prohibit stockholder actions taken on written consent. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could also delay or prevent a change of control. Together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage transactions that otherwise could provide for the payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for publicly traded equity securities or our notes, and also could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our publicly traded equity securities. We have considered other measures such as adoption of a stockholder rights plan. Although we have not adopted such a plan to date, we may do so in the future. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock and discourage a takeover. Our board of directors has the power to issue up to 100.0 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. As of the date hereof, we have no shares of preferred stock outstanding. Our board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any new series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or in the event of a dissolution, liquidation or winding up and other terms. In the event that we issue additional shares of preferred stock in the future that have preference over our common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock or our notes could be adversely affected. In addition, the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders may impede a takeover of us and prevent a transaction favorable to our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 