Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred principally losses since inception and losses may continue, which could result in a decline in the value of our securities and a loss of your investment. We sustained net losses of $2,260,086, and $290,859 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and our accumulated deficit was $83,231,308 as of December 31, 2012. Since we expect to incur additional expenditures in line with the sales growth of our business, we may not achieve operating profits in the near future. This could lead to a decline in the value of our securities. Our proprietary software relies on reference data provided by government and quasi-government agencies. If these governmental and quasi-government agencies were to stop sharing data with us, the utility of our proprietary software would be diminished in those jurisdictions and our business would be damaged. Currently, the fifty states, ten Canadian provinces and the District of Columbia, which in most instances conform to the guidelines established by certain organizations responsible for implementing industry standards, cooperate with us by providing sample identification cards so that we may modify all of our hardware and software products to read and analyze the encoded information found on such jurisdiction’s identification cards. In the event that one or more of these jurisdictions do not continue to provide this reference data, the utility of our proprietary software may be diminished in those jurisdictions. Our business strategy exposes us to long sales and implementation cycles for our products. Our target customers in the commercial fraud protection, access control and age verification industry sectors include large retailers and government agencies, which typically require longer sales and implementation cycles for our products than do our potential customer base solely interested in age verification, such as restaurant, bar and convenience store operators. The longer sales and implementation cycles for larger retail companies continue to have an adverse impact on the timing of realizing our revenues. In addition, budgetary constraints and potential economic slowdowns may also continue to delay purchasing decisions by these prospective customers. These initiatives have costs associated with them, and we cannot assure you that they ultimately will prove successful or result in, an increase to our revenues or profitability. In addition, the loss or significant reduction in government spending by government entities could materially limit our ability to obtain government contracts. These limitations, if significant, could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we will need to develop additional strategic relationships with large government contractors in order to successfully compete for government contracts. Should we lose or fail to develop these strategic relationships we may not be able to implement our business strategy. The industry for our systems and software is evolving and its growth is uncertain. Demand and industry acceptance for recently introduced and existing systems, and software and sales from such systems and software, are subject to a high level of uncertainty and risk. With changing administration in government, changes in government budgets, and slowly evolving government standards on use of identity products, the government sector is slowly developing. The commercial sector has the ability to develop faster than the government sector, but it is also subject to a higher level of uncertainty because of potential uncertainty in the continued financial health of our commercial customers, as well as long sales cycles. Our business may suffer if the industry develops more slowly than anticipated and does not sustain industry acceptance. 18 Failure to manage our operations if they expand could impair our future growth. If we are able to expand our operations, particularly through multiple sales to large retailers and government agencies in the document verification industry, the expansion will place significant strain on our management, financial controls, operating systems, personnel and other resources. Our ability to manage future growth, should it occur, will depend to a large extent upon several factors, including our ability to do the following: §build and train our sales force; §establish and maintain relationships with distributors; §develop customer support systems; §develop expanded internal management and financial controls adequate to keep pace with growth in personnel and sales, if they occur; and §manage the use of third-party manufacturers and suppliers. If we are able to grow our business but do not manage our growth successfully, we may experience increased operating expenses, loss of customers, distributors or suppliers and declining or slowed growth of revenues. We are subject to risks associated with product failure and technological flaws. Products as complex as those offered by us may contain undetected errors or result in failures when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite vigorous product testing efforts and testing by current and potential customers, it is possible that errors will be found in a new product or enhancement after commencement of commercial shipments. The occurrence of product defects or errors could result in adverse publicity, delay in product introduction, diversion of resources to remedy defects, loss of, or a delay in industry acceptance, claims by customers against us, or could cause us to incur additional costs, any of which could adversely affect our business. Failure to protect our proprietary technology may impair our competitive position. We continue to allocate significant resources to developing new and innovative technologies that are utilized in our products and systems. Because our continued success depends on, to a significant degree, our ability to offer products providing superior functionality and performance over those offered by our competitors, we consider the protection of our technology from unauthorized use to be fundamental to our success. This is done by processes aimed at identifying and seeking appropriate protection for newly-developed intellectual property, including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks, as well as policies aimed at identifying unauthorized use of such property. These processes include: §contractual arrangements providing for nondisclosure of proprietary information; §maintaining and enforcing issued patents and filing patent applications on innovative solutions to commercially important problems; §protecting trade secrets; §protecting copyrights and trademarks by registration and other appropriate means; §establishing internal processes for identifying and appropriately protecting new and innovative technologies; and §establishing practices for identifying unauthorized use of intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce patents or trademarks or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights. Litigation could be very costly and divert management’s attention. An adverse outcome in any litigation may have a severe negative effect on our financial results. To determine the priority of inventions, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or oppositions in foreign patent and trademark offices, which could result in substantial cost and limitations on the scope or validity of our patents or trademarks. 19 In addition, foreign laws treat the protection of proprietary rights differently from laws in the United States. The failure of foreign laws or judicial systems to adequately protect our proprietary rights or intellectual property, including intellectual property developed on our behalf by foreign contractors or subcontractors may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. If our future products incorporate technologies that infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, and we do not secure licenses from them, we could be liable for substantial damages. We are not aware that our current products infringe the intellectual property rights of any third parties. We also are not aware of any third party intellectual property rights that may hamper our ability to provide future products and services. However, we recognize that the development of our services or products may require that we acquire intellectual property licenses from third parties so as to avoid infringement of those parties’ intellectual property rights. These licenses may not be available at all or may only be available on terms that are not commercially reasonable. If third parties make infringement claims against us whether or not they are upheld, such claims could: §consume substantial time and financial resources; §divert the attention of management from growing our business and managing operations; and §disrupt product sales and shipments. If any third party prevails in an action against us for infringement of its proprietary rights, we could be required to pay damages and either enter into costly licensing arrangements or redesign our products so as to exclude any infringing use. As a result, we would incur substantial costs, delays in product development, sales and shipments, and our revenues may decline substantially. Additionally, we may not be able to achieve the minimum necessary growth for our continued success. Failure to attract and retain management and other personnel may damage our operations and financial results and cause our stock price to decline. We depend to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive officers and other key management, technical, finance, sales and other personnel. Our failure to attract, integrate, motivate and retain existing or additional personnel could disrupt or otherwise harm our operations and financial results. We do not carry key man life insurance policies covering any employees. The loss of services of certain of our key employees, an inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring additional personnel could delay the development of our business and could cause our stock price to decline. Our share price may be volatile and could decline substantially The market price of our common stock, like the price of shares of technology companies generally, has been and may continue to be volatile. From January 1, 2002 to March 27, 2013, the closing price of our common stock has varied from a high of $19.45 to a low of $0.50 per share, as reported on the American Stock Exchange and NYSE Amex. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline, including: §shortfalls in revenues, cash flows or continued losses from operations; §delays in development or roll-out of any of our products; §announcements by one or more competitors of new product acquisitions or technological innovations; and §unfavorable outcomes from outstanding litigation. In addition, the stock market experiences extreme fluctuations in price and volume that particularly affect the market price of shares of emerging technology companies, such as ours. These price and volume fluctuations are often unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. Because of this volatility, we may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts, and our stock price could decline as a result. Declines in our stock price for any reason, as well as broad-based market fluctuations or fluctuations related to our financial results or other developments, may adversely affect your ability to sell your shares at a price equal to or above the price at which you purchased them. Decreases in the price of our common stock may also lead to de-listing of our common stock. 20 We incur significant accounting and other control costs that impact our financial condition. As a publicly traded corporation, we incur certain costs to comply with regulatory requirements. If regulatory requirements were to become more stringent or if controls thought to be effective later fail, we may be forced to make additional expenditures, the amounts of which could be material. Some of our competitors are privately owned, so their accounting and control costs could create a competitive advantage over us. Should our sales decline or if we are unsuccessful at increasing prices to cover higher expenditures for internal controls and audits, our costs associated with regulatory compliance will rise as a percentage of sales. Currently, we derive a significant portion of our revenue from government R&D (Research and Development) contracts, which are often non-standard, involve competitive bidding, may be subject to cancellation and may produce volatility in earnings and revenue. In the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, Intellicheck Mobilisa derived 14.3% and 22.9% of its revenue respectively from government R&D contracts. These government contracts often include provisions that substantially differ from those found in typical private commercial transactions. For instance, government contracts may: §include provisions that allow the agency, in certain circumstances, to terminate the contract without penalty; §be subject to purchasing decisions by agencies that are subject to political influence; §include bonding requirements; §contain comprehensive procurement provisions that require us to expend substantial resources in pursuing the contract; §specify performance criteria that we must satisfy before the customer accepts the products and services; and §be subject to cancellation or reduction if funding is reduced or becomes unavailable. Securing government contracts typically involves a lengthy competitive bidding process. Often, unsuccessful bidders have the ability to challenge contract awards. Such challenges may increase costs, result in delays and risk the loss of the contract by the winning bidder. Protests or other delays related to material government contracts that may be awarded to us could result in revenue volatility. State and local government agency contracts may depend on the availability of matching funds from federal, state or local entities. State and local government agencies are subject to political, budgetary, purchasing and delivery constraints that may result in irregular revenue and operating results. Revenue volatility makes management of our business difficult. Outright loss of any material government contract through the protest process or otherwise, could significantly reduce our revenues. We could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. government. We, like other government contractors, are subject to various routine audits, reviews and investigations by U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and various agency inspectors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. Any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. If an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. We have been granted contracts based on our status as a small business in a HUBZone and, as of October 2011, that status has expired. At times, we have been granted government contracts in part due to our status as a small business in a HUBZone. Port Townsend, WA’s status as a HUBZone expired in October 2011 and that designation was not renewed for this region. As a result, we may be at a disadvantage when competing for future government contracts, which may in turn reduce our revenue. There is also a possibility that, due to future growth, we will no longer meet the Small Business Administration’s definition of a “small business.” 21 Our business strategy exposes us to long sales and implementation cycles for our products. Historically, some of our primary target customers have been government agencies and branches of the U.S. military, both of which require long sales and implementation cycles for products, which may result in a long period of time prior to revenue realization. The loss or significant reduction in government spending could limit our ability to obtain government contracts. These limitations, if significant, could significantly reduce our revenues. We will need to develop additional strategic relationships with large government contractors in order to successfully compete for government contracts. Should we lose or fail to develop these strategic relationships, we may not be able to implement our business strategy. We cannot be certain that our backlog estimates will result in actual revenues in any particular fiscal period because our clients may modify or terminate projects or may decide not to exercise contract options. Our backlog represents sales value of firm orders for products and services not yet delivered and, for long-term, executed contractual arrangements (contracts, subcontract and customer commitments), the estimated future sales value of product shipments, transactions processed and services to be provided over the term of the contractual arrangements, including anticipated renewal options. For contracts with indefinite quantities, our backlog is estimated based on current activity levels. Our backlog includes estimates of revenues, the receipt of which require future government appropriations, depend on option exercise by clients or are subject to contract modification or termination. At December 31, 2012, our backlog approximated $1,297,347, substantially all of which is estimated to be realized in the next twelve months. These estimates are based on our experience under such contracts and similar contracts, and we believe that such estimates are reasonable. If we do not realize a substantial amount of our backlog, as we presently anticipate, our operations could be harmed and future revenues could be significantly reduced. Long lead times for the components used in certain products creates uncertainty in our supply chain and may prevent us from making required deliveries to our customers on time. We rely exclusively on commercial off-the-shelf technology in manufacturing our products. The lead-time for ordering certain components used in our products and for the production of products can be lengthy. As a result, we must, from time to time, order products based on forecasted demand. If demand for products lags significantly behind forecasts, we may purchase more product than we can sell. Conversely, if demand exceeds forecasts, we may not have enough products to meet our obligations to our customers. We rely on commercial off-the-shelf technology to provide hardware products. Although we believe that we can find alternative sources for hardware, any disruption in our ability to obtain required hardware could result in delaying deliveries or in the loss of sales. Loss of suppliers may result in delays or additional expenses, and we may not be able to meet our obligations to our customers. We obtain certain hardware and services, as well as some software applications, from a limited group of suppliers, and our reliance on these suppliers involves significant risks, including reduced control over quality and delivery schedules. Any financial instability of our suppliers could result in having to find new suppliers. We may experience significant delays in manufacturing and deliveries of products and services to customers if we lose our sources or if supplies and services delivered from these sources are delayed. As a result, we may be required to incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative supply sources. It may take several months to locate alternative suppliers, if required. We cannot predict whether we will be able to obtain replacement hardware within the required time frames at affordable costs, or at all. Any delays resulting from suppliers failing to deliver hardware or delays in obtaining alternative hardware, in sufficient quantities and of sufficient quality, or any significant increase in the cost of hardware from existing or alternative suppliers could result in delays on the shipment of product which, in turn, could result in the loss of customers we may not be able to successfully complete. 22 Our Defense ID system relies on access to databases run by various government agencies. If these governmental agencies were to stop sharing data with us, the utility of the Defense ID system would be diminished and business would be damaged. Currently, our Defense ID system accesses over 100 separate databases run by various government and law enforcement agencies. We cannot be assured that each of these agencies will continue to cooperate with us. In the event that one or more of these agencies does not continue to provide access to these databases, the utility of the Defense ID system may be diminished and as a result, our sales could suffer. Our Defense ID system requires permission from each branch of the U.S. military in the form of an Authority to Operate (ATO). If an existing ATO is revoked, we would risk losing our ability to install our Defense ID system at military bases. We cannot be assured that these permissions will be renewed, and it is possible that they could be revoked. If one or more of these permissions is revoked or not renewed, then the sector for the Defense ID system would be reduced and as a result, our sales could suffer. Our Defense ID system manages private personal information and information related to sensitive government functions and a breach of the security systems protecting such information may result in a loss of suppliers or customers or result in litigation. The protective security measures designed to protect sensitive information and contained in our products may not prevent all security breaches. Failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt our business, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation and liability. A party who is able to circumvent protective security measures used in these systems could misappropriate sensitive information or cause interruptions or otherwise damage our products, services and reputation as well as the property and privacy of customers. If unintended parties obtain sensitive data and information, or create bugs or viruses or otherwise sabotage the functionality of our products, we may receive negative publicity, incur liability to our customers or lose the confidence of our customers, any of which may cause the termination or modification of contracts. Further, our existing insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses and liabilities that may result from such events. In addition, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by the occurrence of any such breaches. However, protective or remedial measures may not be available at a reasonable price or at all, or may not be entirely effective if commenced. Future government regulation restricting the capture of information electronically stored on identification cards could adversely affect our business. The Defense ID system is designed to read, verify and capture information from identification cards. Currently, some jurisdictions have restrictions on what can be done with this information. Because issues of personal privacy continue to be a major topic of public policy debate, it is possible that, in the future, these or other jurisdictions may introduce similar or additional restrictions on capturing this information. Therefore, the implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause the development of the affected industry sectors to become impractical and reduce our revenues and potential revenues. We are subject to risks associated with product failure and technological flaws. Our products are complex and may contain undetected errors or result in failures when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite vigorous product testing efforts and testing by current and potential customers, it is possible that errors will be found in a new product or enhancement after commercial shipments have commenced. The occurrence of product defects or errors could result in negative publicity, delays in product introduction, the diversion of resources to remedy defects and loss of or delay in industry acceptance or claims by customers against us and could cause us to incur additional costs, any one of which could adversely affect our business. Because of the risk of undetected error, we may be compelled to accept liability provisions that vary from our preferred contracting model in certain critical transactions. There is a risk that in certain contracts and circumstances we may not be successful in adequately minimizing product and related liabilities or that the protections negotiated will not ultimately be deemed enforceable. 23 We carry product liability insurance, but existing coverage may not be adequate to cover potential claims. The failure of our products to perform as promised could result in increased costs, lower margins, liquidated damage payment obligations and harm to our reputation. We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological change. The sectors for all of our products are characterized by rapid technological advancements. Significant technological change could render existing technology obsolete. If we are unable to successfully respond to these developments, or do not respond in a cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We are currently developing several new systems, including Floating Area Networks (FANs) and Littoral Sensor Grids that rely on government funding for continued research and development, and the failure to meet project milestones and development targets could impact that funding. We anticipate that projects currently in research and development, including FANs and Littoral Sensor Grids, will play a critical role in our future growth. Because these projects are in development and being funded by various government agencies, we have certain ongoing milestones and development targets that we must meet. If these milestones or development targets are not met, we could lose our research and development funding for these projects. In addition, even if milestones and development targets are met, there is no guarantee that the funding agencies will continue to grant the same level of, or any, research and development funds. Failure to attract research and development funding adequate to fully fund these projects could result in the termination of those projects, which could have a significant impact on our revenue. We cannot guarantee that projects currently in research and development stage, including FANs and Littoral Sensor Grids, will result in operational systems or prototypes or that such systems or prototypes, if produced, will be commercially marketable. Projects in the research and development stage have not yet been proven operational. While we anticipate that we will be able to produce operational systems or prototypes based on our research and development, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so. Furthermore, even if we are able to produce operational systems or prototypes, there is no guarantee that those systems or prototypes will prove commercially marketable. Future capital requirements may require incurring debt or dilution of existing stockholders. Acquisition and development opportunities and other contingencies may arise, which could require us to raise additional capital or incur debt. If we raise additional capital through the sale of equity, including preferred stock, or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our then existing stockholders will be diluted. Because we do not intend to pay dividends on our Common Stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our shares of stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of the business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on factors the Board of Directors deems relevant, including among others, our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, and the terms of Intellicheck Mobilisa’s credit facilities and other financing arrangements. Accordingly, realization of a gain on stockholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our stock. There is no guarantee that our stock will appreciate in value. 24 Our management team controls a substantial interest in Intellicheck Mobilisa and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our management team (including all of our directors) own approximately 43.1% of our issued and outstanding common stock, approximately 40.2% of which is owned by Dr. Ludlow and Mrs. Ludlow. By owning this many shares, our management team may be able to control decisions to be made by our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 