D. Risk Factors. Our business, performance and financial condition are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those described in the risk factors below. These risks and uncertainties could result in a material adverse effect on Wacoal, and a material decline in the trading price of our common stock and American Depositary Shares, or ADSs. Continued weak consumer spending in Japan would hurt our business During fiscal year 2005, the Japanese market accounted for approximately 89% of our sales, and we expect that sales in Japan will account for approximately an equivalent proportion of our sales in fiscal year 2006. We believe that the general level of consumer spending in Japan has a significant impact on our sales and profitability. Accordingly, we believe that the generally weak consumer spending in Japan in recent years – including spending in our core women’s intimate apparel market – has limited our ability to increase our sales and profitability. We do not expect that consumer spending in Japan will materially increase in the foreseeable future, particularly at general retailers. If consumer spending in Japan does not increase, it will be difficult for us to increase our sales and profitability. Continued difficulties faced by department stores and other general retailers in Japan would hurt our business In fiscal year 2005, a substantial majority of our total sales were made to department stores, general merchandise stores and other general retailers in Japan. Although we are attempting to increase our sales made through our own SPA specialty retail stores, our catalog business and our Internet operations, we expect that the large majority of our total sales will continue to be made through department stores and other general retailers in Japan for the foreseeable future. In recent years, many general retailers in Japan have experienced business difficulties for a variety of reasons, including weak consumer spending, competition from convenience stores, catalog and Internet retailers and other sources, and high debt levels. A large number of prominent Japanese general retailers have suffered significant declines in sales and profitability, and some of these companies have become insolvent. Although a number of general retailers have announced restructuring plans and other efforts to improve their profitability and performance, the outlook for the sector remains uncertain, and poor performance in the sector could persist. Continued weakness in the general merchandise retail sector in Japan could cause our business and financial performance and condition to materially suffer for a number of reasons. For example, it will be difficult for us to increase our sales if the performance of our general retail customers does not improve, because we make most of our sales through these customers. The failure of one or more of our important general retail customers could materially harm our business, due to the immediate loss of sales formerly represented by a failed retailer and our potential inability to collect some or all of our outstanding accounts receivable from that retailer. In addition, increased consolidation in the Japanese general retail sector may allow our customers to increase their bargaining power in negotiating pricing and other terms of trade with us, which could hurt our business and performance. 7 Table of Contents Our success depends on our ability to effectively anticipate and respond to consumer tastes and preferences Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively anticipate and respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and demands, and to translate market trends into products that consumers want to buy at prices that will allow us to be profitable. Customer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly and are difficult to predict. If we are unable to successfully anticipate or respond to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales will suffer and we may be faced with significant amounts of unsold inventory. In response, we may be forced to reduce our product prices, increase our marketing promotions or take other steps, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our brand image may also suffer if merchandise misjudgments and other missteps cause consumers to believe that we are not able to offer attractive fashions and top-quality products. We may not be able to increase sales of our products designed for younger women and mature women We believe that our future sales growth and profitability will depend in part on our ability to increase sales to younger women, and to develop new products for mature women. Increased sales to younger women are important to increase our market reach and develop brand loyalty with consumers at a relatively early age, while sales to mature women will be increasingly important as Japan’s population ages and mature women become a growing proportion of our total market. To achieve these sales goals, we are implementing a strategy of selling apparel aimed at younger women (in addition to other consumers) through our own SPA specialty retail stores, and we have developed product lines (such as our La Vie Aisée and Gra-P intimate apparel lines) that are targeted to mature women. However, we cannot assure you that our efforts to achieve consistent and profitable sales growth from these targeted consumers will be successful. For example, competition from lower-priced intimate apparel and from specialty retail store competitors, and our relative inexperience in managing our own stores, may limit our ability to attract increased numbers of younger customers. We are subject to inventory risks that could negatively impact our operating results Fluctuations in the demand for our products may affect the inventory we own because we usually manufacture our products well in advance of the applicable season and sometimes before fashion trends are identified or evidenced by customer purchases. In addition, the cyclical nature of the retail business requires us to carry additional inventory, especially prior to peak selling seasons when we and other retailers generally build up inventory levels. We generally enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise with our suppliers well in advance of the applicable selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to sub-optimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. We review our inventories on a regular basis for their salability and for indications of obsolescence to determine if a write down to market value is necessary. The revaluation of inventories is based on the age of inventories, likelihood of obsolescence, actual product movements, changes in market demand, and other factors. For example, due largely to weaker than expected sales of certain of our campaign items, we recorded a ¥3,500 million expense in fiscal year 2005 for inventory markdowns, which represented a 7% increase in this expense over 8 Table of Contents the previous year. Such markdowns may continue to have an adverse impact on our earnings, depending on the extent of the markdowns and the amount of inventory affected. Improvement in our profitability will depend in large part on our ability to reduce costs Due to anticipated continued weakness in consumer spending in Japan and other factors, we believe that it will be difficult for us to materially increase our product sales in the near term. This means that we will likely need to reduce our costs in order to increase our profitability. In recent years we have taken certain steps intended to reduce our costs, and we expect to continue these efforts. For example, to improve the efficiency of our product distribution system, we have reduced the number of our distribution centers from 18 in 1998 to 8 as of March 31, 2005. We intend to further consolidate our distribution capability during the current fiscal year, by closing 4 more distribution centers and opening a larger and more modern center located in the Kansai region of Japan. In addition, we are seeking to produce or otherwise source more of our apparel in China, Vietnam and other lower-cost countries. We have also expanded our early retirement program and have taken other steps to reduce our labor costs in Japan. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in materially reducing our costs, or that any cost reductions that we achieve will be large enough to compensate for difficulties that we may face in increasing our sales. For instance, most of our intimate apparel products are aimed at the higher end of the market, and require high quality fabric which often must be custom made to our specifications. Although in fiscal year 2005 we produced 21.6% of our products on a unit basis in China, Vietnam and other lower-cost countries, there is a shortage of fabric suppliers in these countries who can meet our requirements for high quality fabric, and we expect this shortage to continue. Also, workforce restructuring and similar measures may require us to obtain the support of labor unions and other constituencies and to make severance payments and incur other costs, which may harm our financial performance. For example, we incurred expenses from our expanded early retirement program of ¥167 million and ¥718 million in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Our SPA specialty retail store network may not be successful As of March 31, 2005 we had a total of 70 SPA specialty retail stores, including 2 factory outlet stores. Our target is to expand our SPA store network to approximately 100 stores by March 2006. Through our SPA specialty retail stores, we hope to increase our contact with younger women and other consumers who may have less awareness of our brand and products and may be less likely to shop for intimate apparel in the general retail stores that carry our products. However, there are many risks that we must address in order for our SPA specialty retail stores to succeed. We cannot assure you that we can successfully resolve these risks, especially in light of our limited experience in operating our own stores. For example, our SPA specialty retail store strategy depends in large part on our ability to find attractive store locations that will provide sufficient customer traffic to drive sales. We must compete for good store locations with other retailers pursuing similar strategies. We may not be able to open new stores with capital investment, leasing and other costs that will allow us to earn a reasonable return. We must effectively recruit personnel, control inventory, market our stores and new product lines and otherwise operate our stores successfully. We are developing and marketing distinct lines of 9 Table of Contents intimate apparel for our SPA specialty retail stores under brands that do not feature the Wacoal name, in order to reach the targeted customers for our stores and avoid competition with our general retail customers who carry our Wacoal brand apparel. This strategy carries risks, including the risk that our new apparel lines may not meet the fashion, function and other needs of our targeted customers. Also, we opened our first SPA store in 2002 – this limited period of operational history makes it difficult for us to evaluate the performance of our SPA stores to date, and to estimate whether we will achieve success in the future. We may experience difficulties in successfully increasing our catalog and Internet sales We believe that our catalog and Internet sales will be increasingly important in achieving sales growth, and we are seeking to strengthen our capabilities in these channels. However, we face challenges in our catalog and Internet sales strategies. Our sales through these channels currently represent a small share of our overall sales. We face intense competition in our catalog and Internet business, and many of our competitors have more experience and have devoted more resources to these channels than we have. Additionally, our profit margins on catalog and Internet sales are typically lower than our margins on our products sold through our core general retailer channel, and thus even higher sales volume through the catalog and Internet channels may not adequately replace sales through our core channels. We cannot assure you that we can successfully increase our catalog and Internet sales sufficiently to compensate for continued flat or declining sales through our core general retailer channel, or to counter any problems we may face in executing our SPA specialty retail store strategy. Our business is highly competitive The sale of intimate and other apparel is highly competitive. We compete for sales with a range of other apparel companies. Our principal intimate apparel competitors in Japan are Triumph, Charle, Cecille and Peach John, and we also compete with a number of other mass market and specialty apparel companies. An important factor affecting the competitive environment in our industry in recent years has been the increased penetration of lower priced garments in the market. Factors driving this trend include increased product sourcing and production in China, Vietnam and other lower-cost countries; the introduction of new manufacturing technologies; consolidation in the retail industry; and a prolonged period of sluggish consumer spending, particularly in Japan. We believe that our strategy of focusing on the higher end of the intimate apparel market helps us to mitigate the potential negative effects of such trends on our business and performance, including possible loss of market share and reduced profitability. However, we are affected by these competitive trends and we cannot make assurances that our strategy will be successful. Additionally, we continue to be challenged by the emergence of new and competitive retail concepts in the Japanese intimate apparel industry, which target customers through catalog marketing, e-commerce and other means. Increased competition could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of sales volume and market share, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Our business is affected by seasonality Our business performance and results are affected by seasonality. We typically launch new intimate apparel product campaigns for the spring, summer, and fall/winter seasons of each year. Our business success depends in large part on the success of these seasonal product campaigns. Also, seasonal fluctuations may affect our inventory levels, since we produce and acquire merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and often before new fashion trends are confirmed by consumer purchases. Changes in seasonal weather patterns may affect our sales. For example, during fiscal year 2005, Japan experienced unseasonably warm weather in the fall and winter, which adversely affected our sales of campaign products for those seasons. We may face increasing risks relating to conducting business internationally In fiscal year 2005, approximately 89% of our sales were made in Japan, and we source and manufacture most of our apparel in Japan. However, we anticipate that over time, an increasing portion of our apparel will be produced outside of Japan to take advantage of lower costs available in countries such as China. Also, we are trying to expand our product sales in overseas markets, including the U.S., Europe and China. These initiatives and trends may cause us to become increasingly subject to various risks relating to conducting business abroad, including: • political and economic instability in countries where we source, manufacture or sell our products; • unexpected legal or regulatory changes; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing protection of intellectual property; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable because of distance and different legal rules; and • public health or similar problems (for example, the avian flu outbreaks in Asia and other parts of the world) in our important overseas markets or sourcing/production centers. Our dependency on outside suppliers creates business risks for our company We obtain fabric and other materials for our products from a variety of outside suppliers, most of which are located in Japan. Our reliance on outside suppliers exposes us to certain business risks. For example, if key materials for our products are not available or if there are disruptions in supply, we may not be able to manufacture and deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner. This risk to our company may increase in the future, as an increasing number of our suppliers are shifting their operations from Japan to lower-cost countries 11 Table of Contents such as China. Although we generally maintain alternate sources of supply, we rely on a small number of suppliers for certain key materials for our products – we may have particular trouble if any of these key suppliers suffer insolvency or other business problems, or otherwise stop doing business with us. If the cost of our supplies increase and we are not able to pass on these cost increases to our customers, our margins and profitability will suffer. We face risks in our business relating to intellectual property rights We are subject to certain risks in our business relating to intellectual property rights. In particular, we believe that our brands and related trademarks are important to our ability to create and sustain demand for our products, and to the value of our business. We may encounter trademark and related disputes in the future, and our actions to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products or the infringement of our trademarks and proprietary rights by others, which could materially harm our business. Additionally, other parties have, and may in the future, assert that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. We cannot predict whether any such assertions or related claims will substantially harm our business and results of operations. We must comply with laws and regulations regarding privacy and the protection of customer information We must comply with laws and regulations regarding privacy and the protection of customer information in the jurisdictions where we conduct our business and operations. These laws and regulations change from time to time, and are not consistent across jurisdictions. Violations of these requirements could arise in a number of ways, including problems with our information systems and inadvertent or intentional disclosures of information by our employees. Any failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Complying with varying privacy requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs and force us to change our business practices. Also, any failure by us to properly protect our customers’ privacy and data could cause customers to lose confidence in our business and products, which may adversely affect us. Our holdings of equity securities expose us to risks We hold equity securities in a number of publicly traded Japanese companies. A significant drop in the value of these securities could have an adverse impact on our financial results in the relevant reporting period. In particular, negative performance in the Japanese equity securities markets could adversely impact the value of our equity securities holdings. For example, in fiscal years ended March 31, 2004 and 2005, we recognized valuation losses on our equity securities holdings of ¥142 million and ¥618 million, respectively. We may be adversely affected by our employee benefit obligations We maintain a number of retirement and other benefit plans for a substantial portion of our employees. Some of our plans obligate us to provide certain defined levels of benefits in the future in accordance with the terms of the applicable plans. Regarding these employee benefit obligations and the related plan assets, we fund and accrue the cost of employee benefits to a level 12 Table of Contents that we believe is sufficient based on conservative accounting policies. However, if returns from investment assets decrease due to adverse conditions in stock or bond markets or other factors, additional funding and accruals may be required, and such funding and accruals may adversely affect our financial results and condition. We may become classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. holders of our stock or ADSs We believe that we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended March 31, 2005, or for the current or any future taxable years. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. holders of our stock or ADSs. For example, if we are a PFIC, U.S. holders of our stock or ADSs would be subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a passive foreign investment company is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if, after applying certain look-through rules, either 50 percent or more of the gross value of our assets, based on annual quarterly averages, are passive assets, or 75 percent or more of our annual gross income is passive income. The composition of our assets will be affected by the extent to which we increase or reduce our active business assets and/or our cash, investment securities, and other passive assets. In addition, if our acquisitions of active business assets, capital expenditures and certain other uses of cash do not match our projections, the likelihood that we are or will be classified as a PFIC may also increase. We cannot assure you that we will not be classified as a PFIC for the taxable year ended March 31, 2005, or for the current or any future taxable year. See “Item 10.E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—U.S. Holders—Passive Foreign Investment Companies”. Yen-dollar fluctuations could cause the market price of the ADSs to decline and reduce dividend amounts payable to ADS holders as expressed in U.S. dollars Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Japanese yen price of the shares on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and, as a result, are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs. If we declare cash dividends, dividends on the shares represented by the ADSs will be paid to the depositary in Japanese yen and then converted by the depositary into U.S. dollars. Therefore, exchange rate fluctuations will also affect the dividend amounts payable to ADS holders following conversion into U.S. dollars of dividends paid in Japanese yen on the shares represented by the ADSs. As a holder of ADSs, you will have fewer rights than a shareholder has, and you must act through the depositary to exercise those rights The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take actions, including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights, are available only to holders of record on our register of shareholders or our register of beneficial shareholders. Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the registered holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, only the depositary 13 Table of Contents can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying a holder’s ADSs as instructed by the holder and will pay to the holder the dividends and distributions collected from us. However, in the holder’s capacity as an ADS holder, that holder will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and records or exercise appraisal rights through the depositary. There are restrictions on the withdrawal of shares from our depositary receipt facility Under our ADS program, each ADS represents the right to receive five shares of our common stock. To withdraw any shares, a holder of ADSs has to surrender for cancellation American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, evidencing 200 ADSs or any integral multiple thereof. Each ADR bears a legend to that effect. As a result, holders of ADSs are unable to withdraw fractions of shares or units or receive any cash settlement from the depositary in lieu of withdrawal of fractions of shares or units. Holders of shares representing less than one unit, or 1,000 shares, may require us to repurchase those shares, whereas holders of ADSs representing less than one unit of shares are unable to exercise this right because the holders of these ADSs are unable to withdraw the underlying shares. Under our ADS program, an ADS holder cannot cause the depositary to require us to repurchase fractions of shares or units on its behalf. For a further discussion of the Japanese unit share system, see “Item 10.B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Capital Stock—The Unit Share System”. 