ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks. Many of these risks are beyond our control and are driven by factors that we cannot predict. The following discussion, as well as our discussion above of critical accounting policies and estimates, highlights some of these risks. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this report before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks That Affect Our Future Operations We may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to sustain profitability. We commenced our operations in April 1995 and incurred net losses for every quarter until attaining profitability in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. While we have maintained annual profitability for fiscal 2005, 2006 and 2007, as of March 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $74.3 million. We may incur losses again as we continue to develop our business. Our ability to sustain profitability is based on a number of assumptions, including some outside of our control, including the state of the overall economy and the demand for our products. If these assumptions do not prove to be accurate then we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to sustain profitability. Furthermore, even if we do sustain profitability and positive operating cash flow, we may not be able to increase profitability or positive operating cash flow on a quarterly or annual basis. If our profitability does not meet the expectations of investors, the price of our common stock may decline. We have a limited amount of capital resources and we may not be able to sustain or grow our business if we cannot sustain profitability or raise additional funds on a timely basis. We believe we have adequate cash to sustain operations through the next 12 months, and we are managing the business to achieve positive cash flow utilizing existing assets. However, even if we sustain profitability, we may not be able to generate sufficient profits to grow our business. As a result, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financings or other sources to fund our operations. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, these equity securities might have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our common stock and preferred stock. In addition, the necessity of raising additional funds could force us to incur debt on terms that could restrict our ability to make capital expenditures and incur additional indebtedness. The terms of our credit facilities contain covenants that limit our flexibility and prevent us from taking certain actions. The terms governing our credit facilities with Silicon Valley Bank include a number of significant restrictive covenants. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet our capital needs and execute our business strategy. These covenants will, among other things, limit our ability to: • incur additional debt; • make certain investments; • create liens; or • sell certain assets. These covenants may significantly limit our operating and financial flexibility and limit our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their scheduled due date. In addition, Silicon Valley Bank could foreclose on our assets. 13 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and may not be predictive of future financial results. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future, and may vary from investors’ expectations, depending on a number of factors, including: • Variances in demand for our products and services; • Timing of the introduction of new products or services and enhancements of existing products or services; • Our ability to complete fixed-price service contracts without committing additional unplanned resources; • Unanticipated changes in the capacity of our services organization; • Delays or deferrals of customer implementations of our software products; • Delays or deferrals of client drug development processes; • The tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal quarter or fiscal year in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms; • Changes in industry conditions affecting our customers, including industry consolidation; and • Our ability to realize operating efficiencies through restructuring or other actions. As a result, quarterly comparisons may not indicate reliable trends of future performance. We manage our expense levels in part based upon our expectations concerning future revenue, and these expense levels are relatively fixed in the short term. If we have lower revenue than expected, we may not be able to reduce our spending in the short term in response. Any shortfall in revenue would have a direct impact on our results of operations. In the past we have taken actions intended to reduce our expenses on an annualized basis. Our cost reduction measures have left us with less excess capacity to deliver our products and services. If there is a significant increase in demand from what we estimate, it will take us longer to address this demand, which would limit our ability to grow our business and sustain profitability. We may be required to defer recognition of software license revenue for a significant period of time after entering into an agreement, which could negatively impact our results of operations. We may have to delay recognizing license revenue for a significant period of time for a variety of types of transactions, including: • transactions that include both currently deliverable software products and software products that are under development or contain other currently undeliverable elements; • transactions where the customer demands services that include significant modifications, customizations or complex interfaces that could delay product delivery or acceptance; • transactions that involve non-standard acceptance criteria or identified product-related performance issues; and • transactions that include contingency-based payment terms or fees. These factors and other specific accounting requirements for software revenue recognition require that we have very precise terms in our license agreements to allow us to recognize revenue when we initially deliver software or perform services. Although we have a standard form of license agreement that we believe meets the criteria for current revenue recognition on delivered elements, we negotiate and revise these terms and conditions 14 Table of Contents in some transactions. Therefore, it is possible that from time to time we may license our software or provide service with terms and conditions that do not permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery or even as work on the project is completed. In fiscal 2007, software license revenue accounted for 48% of our total revenue. The majority of our large PKS software transactions include services pertaining to modification and customization of the core PKS software product, which may result in delayed revenue recognition for a significant period of time. An increase in services revenue as a percentage of total revenue, or a decrease in software license revenue as a percentage of total revenue, may decrease our overall margins. We realize lower margins on services revenue than on license revenue. In addition, we may contract with certain third parties to supplement the services we provide to customers, which generally yields lower gross margins than those margins generated by our deployment organization or internal scientific staff. As a result, if services revenue increases as a percentage of total revenue or if we increase our use of third parties to provide such services, our gross margins would be lower and our operating results may be adversely affected. Because our sales and implementation cycles are long and unpredictable, our revenues are difficult to predict and may not meet our expectations or those of our investors. The lengths of our sales and implementation cycles are difficult to predict and depend on a number of factors, including the type of product or services being provided, the nature and size of the potential customer and the extent of the commitment being made by the potential customer. Our sales cycle is unpredictable and may take six months or more. Our implementation cycle is also difficult to predict and can be longer than one year. Each of these can result in delayed revenues, increased selling expenses and difficulty in matching revenues with expenses, which may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. A key element of our strategy is to market our product and service offerings to large organizations. These organizations can have particularly lengthy decision-making processes and may require evaluation periods, which could extend the sales and implementation cycle. Moreover, we often must provide a significant level of education to our prospective customers regarding the use and benefit of our product and service offerings, which may cause additional delays during the evaluation and acceptance process. We therefore have difficulty forecasting the timing and recognition of revenues from sales of our product and service offerings. Our revenue is concentrated in a few customers, and if we lose any of these customers our revenue may decrease substantially. We receive a substantial majority of our revenue from a limited number of customers. For fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, sales to our top two customers accounted for 28%, 42% and 45% of total revenue, respectively and sales to our top five customers accounted for 43%, 52% and 62%. In fiscal 2007, Pfizer, our largest customer, accounted for 17% of our total revenue, and Lilly accounted for 11% of our total revenue. In fiscal 2006, Pfizer accounted for 25% of our total revenue and Lilly accounted for 17% of our total revenue. In fiscal 2005, Pfizer accounted for 25% and Lilly accounted for 20% of our total revenue. Consequently, we are dependent on Pfizer and Lilly for a substantial portion of our revenues, and if we were to lose Pfizer or Lilly as a customer, it would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and business. We expect that a significant portion of our revenue will continue to depend on sales to a small number of customers. In addition, the worldwide pharmaceutical industry has undergone, and may in the future undergo, substantial consolidation, which may further reduce the number of our existing and potential customers. If we do not generate as much revenue from these major customers as we expect to, if revenue from such customers is delayed, or if we lose any of them as customers, our total revenue may be significantly reduced. We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. The markets in which we compete can put pressure on us to reduce our prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products in an effort to recapture or gain market share, we may then need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes would be likely to reduce 15 Table of Contents margins and could adversely affect operating results. We have periodically changed our pricing model and any broadly based changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause service and license revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. If we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products, our revenues could decrease. If we are unable to generate additional sales from existing customers and/or generate sales to new customers, we may not be able to realize sufficient revenues to sustain or increase our profitability. Our success depends on our ability to develop our existing customer relationships and establish relationships with additional pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. If we lose any significant relationships with existing customers or fail to establish additional relationships, we may not be able to execute our business plan and our business will suffer. Developing customer relationships with pharmaceutical companies can be difficult for a number of reasons. These companies are often very large organizations with complex decision-making processes that are difficult to affect. In addition, because our products and services relate to the core technologies of these companies, these organizations are generally cautious about working with outside companies. Some potential customers may also resist working with us until our products and services have achieved more widespread market acceptance. Our existing customers could also reassess their commitment to us, not renew existing agreements or choose not to expand the scope of their relationship with us. Our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected if a customer cancels a contract for services or software deployment with us. Our customers can cancel many of our services agreements upon prior notice. Additionally, due to the nature of our services and deployment engagements, customers sometimes delay projects because of timing of the clinical trials and the need for data and information that prevent us from proceeding with our projects. These delays and contract cancellations cannot be predicted with accuracy and we cannot assure you that we will be able to replace any delayed or canceled contracts with the customer or other customers. If we are unable to replace those contracts, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. We may lose existing customers or be unable to attract new customers if we do not develop new products and services or if our offerings do not keep pace with technological changes. The successful growth of our business depends on our ability to develop new products and services and incorporate new capabilities, including the expansion of our product and services offerings to address a broader set of customer needs related to clinical development of drugs and thereby expand the number of our prospective users, on a timely basis. If we cannot adapt to changing technologies, emerging and evolving industry standards, new scientific developments and increasingly sophisticated customer needs, we may not achieve revenue growth and our products and services may become obsolete, and our business could suffer. We have suffered product delays in the past, resulting in lost product revenues. In addition, early releases of software often contain errors or defects. We cannot assure you that, despite our extensive testing, errors will not be found in our products before or after commercial release, which could result in product redevelopment costs and loss of, or delay in, market acceptance. Furthermore, a failure by us to introduce new products or services on schedule could harm our business prospects. Any delay or problems in the installation or implementation of new products or services may cause customers to forego purchases from us. We may need to accelerate product introductions and shorten product life cycles, which will require high levels of expenditures of research and development that could adversely affect our operating results. A failure by us to introduce new services on a timely and cost-effective basis to meet evolving customer requirements, or to integrate new services with existing services, could harm our business prospects. If the security or confidentiality of our customers’ data is compromised or breached, we could be liable for damages and our reputation could be harmed. As part of implementing our products and services, we inherently gain access to certain highly confidential proprietary customer information. It is critical that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are 16 Table of Contents perceived by the marketplace to be secure. Despite our implementation of a number of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. We do not have insurance to cover us for losses incurred in many of these events. If we fail to meet our customers’ security expectations, we could be liable for damages and our reputation could suffer. If we are unable to complete a project due to scientific limitations or otherwise meet our customers’ expectations, our reputation may be adversely affected and we may not be able to generate new business. Because our projects may contain scientific risks, which are difficult to foresee, we cannot guarantee that we will always be able to complete them. Any failure to meet our customers’ expectations could harm our reputation and ability to generate new business. On a few occasions, we have encountered scientific limitations and been unable to complete a project. In each of these cases, we have been able to successfully renegotiate the terms of the project with the particular customer. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renegotiate our customer agreements if such circumstances occur in the future. Moreover, even if we complete a project, we may not meet our customers’ expectations regarding the quality of our products and services or the timeliness of our services. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to retain and attract qualified employees. We believe that our future success depends upon our ability to continue to train, retain, effectively manage and attract highly skilled technical, scientific, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. We currently have limited personnel and other resources to staff and complete consulting and software deployment projects. In addition, as we grow our business, we expect an increase in the number of complex projects and large deployments of our products and services, which require a significant amount of personnel for extended periods of time. In particular, there is a limited supply of modeling and simulation personnel worldwide, and competition for these personnel from numerous companies and academic institutions may limit our ability to hire these persons on commercially reasonable terms. From time to time, we experience difficulties in locating enough highly qualified candidates in desired geographic locations, or with required scientific or industry-specific expertise. Staffing projects and deploying our products and services will become more difficult as our operations and customers become more geographically diverse. If we are not able to adequately staff and complete our projects, we may lose customers and our reputation may be harmed. Any difficulties we may have in completing customer projects may impair our ability to grow our business. If we lose key members of our management, scientific or development staff, or our scientific advisors, our reputation may be harmed and we may lose business. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management, scientific and development staff. Our reputation is also based in part on our association with key scientific advisors. The loss of any of these personnel might adversely impact our reputation in the market and harm our business. Failure to attract and retain key management, scientific and technical personnel could prevent us from achieving our strategy and developing our products and services. In addition, our management team has experienced significant personnel changes over the past years and may continue to experience changes in the future. If our management team continues to experience attrition, high turnover, or does not work effectively together, it could harm our business. Additionally, we do not currently hold key-man life insurance policies on our CEO, CFO or other key contributors. The demise of any of these individuals could adversely impact our business. Our business depends on our intellectual property rights, and if we are unable to adequately protect them, our competitive position will suffer. Our intellectual property is important to our competitive position. We protect our proprietary information and technology through a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law, confidentiality agreements and technical measures. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information and technology, nor can we guarantee that we will be successful 17 Table of Contents in obtaining any patents or that the rights granted under such patents will provide a competitive advantage. Misappropriation of our intellectual property could harm our competitive position. We may also need to engage in litigation in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of invalidity, and we may incur substantial costs as a result. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries provide less protection of intellectual property rights than the laws of the United States and Europe. As a result, we may have an increasingly difficult time adequately protecting our intellectual property rights as our sales in foreign countries grow. If we become subject to infringement claims by third parties, we could incur unanticipated expense and be prevented from providing our products and services We cannot assure you that infringement claims by third parties will not be asserted against us or, if asserted, will be unsuccessful. These claims, whether or not meritorious, could be expensive and divert management resources from operating our company. Furthermore, a party making a claim against us could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could block our ability to provide products or services, unless we obtain a license to such technology. In addition, we cannot assure you that licenses for any intellectual property of third parties that might be required for our products or services will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. International sales of our product account for a significant portion of our revenue, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. We market and sell our products and services in the United States and internationally. International sales of our products and services as a percentage of our total revenue for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 were approximately 34%, 24% and 22%, respectively. We have a total of 12 employees based outside the United States who deploy our software, perform consulting services and perform research in Europe and Australia. We cannot be certain that we have fully complied with all rules and regulations in every applicable jurisdiction outside of the United States with respect to our current and previous operations outside of the United States. The failure to comply with such rules and regulations could result in penalties, monetary or otherwise, against us. Our existing marketing efforts into international markets may require significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that our existing international operations will produce desired levels of revenue. We currently have limited experience in developing localized versions of our products and services and marketing and distributing our products internationally. Our international operations also expose us to the following general risks associated with international operations: • disruptions to commercial activities or damage to our facilities as a result of political unrest, war, terrorism, labor strikes and work stoppages; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • the impact of recessions or inflation in economies outside the United States; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • potential adverse tax consequences, including higher tax rates generally in Europe; • tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers imposed by foreign countries; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements of foreign countries, especially those with respect to software, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies; and • fluctuations in the value of currencies. To the extent that such disruptions and costs interfere with our commercial activities, our results of operations could be harmed. 18 Table of Contents Changes in government regulation could decrease the need for the products and services we provide. Governmental agencies throughout the world, but particularly in the United States, highly regulate the drug development and approval process. A large part of our software and services business involves helping pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies through the regulatory drug approval process. Any relaxation in regulatory approval standards could eliminate or substantially reduce the need for our services, and, as a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Potential regulatory changes under consideration in the United States and elsewhere include mandatory substitution of generic drugs for patented drugs, relaxation in the scope of regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures. These and other changes in regulation could have an impact on the business opportunities available to us. While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we will be required, as of March 31, 2008, to evaluate and report on the effectiveness of our internal control under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from the evaluation and reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2008, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report will contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 2 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for independent registered public accounting firms to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. While we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we are in the process of system and process documentation and evaluation needed to comply with Section 404, which is both costly and challenging. During this process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and those weaknesses are not appropriately remediated prior to March 31, 2008, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of March 31, 2008 (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on our management’s evaluation or on the effectiveness of the internal control), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price, and our business and operating results could be harmed. While we currently anticipate being able to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any required remediation due in large part to the fact that there is no precedent available by which to measure compliance with the new PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 2. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or if our independent registered public accounting firm is not able to complete the procedures required by PCAOB Audit Standard No. 2 to support their attestation report, we would likely lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price, and our business and operating results could be harmed. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Industry Our market may not develop as quickly as expected, and companies may enter our market, thereby increasing the amount of competition and impairing our business prospects. Because our products and services are new and still evolving, there is significant uncertainty and risk as to the demand for, and market acceptance of, these products and services. As a result, we are not able to predict the size and growth rate of our market with any certainty. In addition, other companies, including potential strategic partners, may enter our market. Our existing customers may also elect to terminate our services and internally develop products and services similar to ours. If our market fails to develop, grows more slowly than expected, or becomes saturated with competitors, our business prospects will be impaired. Government regulation of the pharmaceutical industry may restrict our operations or the operations of our customers and, therefore, adversely affect our business. The pharmaceutical industry is regulated by a number of federal, state, local and international governmental entities. Although United States Food and Drug Administration or comparable international agencies do not directly regulate the majority our products and services, the use of some of our analytical software products by our customers may be regulated. We currently provide assistance to our customers in achieving compliance with these regulations. In addition, our Reporting and Analysis Services are subject to various regulatory requirements designed to ensure the quality and integrity of the data or products of these services. These regulations are governed primarily by good laboratory practice, or GLP, and good clinical practice, or GCP, guidelines mandated by the FDA. The regulatory agencies could enact new regulations or amend existing regulations with regard to these or other products that could restrict the use of our products or the business of our customers, which could harm our business. Consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry could cause disruptions of our customer relationships, interfere with our ability to enter into new customer relationships and have a negative impact on our revenues In recent years, the worldwide pharmaceutical industry has undergone substantial consolidation. If any of our customers consolidate with another business, they may delay or cancel projects, lay off personnel or reduce spending, any of which could cause our revenues to decrease. In addition, our ability to complete sales or implementation cycles may be impaired as these organizations undergo internal restructuring. Reductions in the IT and/or research and development budgets of our customers may affect our sales. Our customers include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and government and private laboratories. Fluctuations in the IT and research and development budgets of these researchers and their organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products. Research and development and IT budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, spending priorities, internal budgetary policies and the availability of grants from government agencies. Our business could be harmed by any significant decrease in research and development or IT expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions or government and private laboratories. Recent or continued withdrawals of drugs from the public market could affect pharmaceutical spending, reduce the demand for our products and have a negative impact on our revenues. Recently, the pharmaceutical industry has experienced, and may continue to experience, forced withdrawal of certain drugs from the public market due to safety risks. Recent or future drug withdrawals could affect our ability to market and sell our products and services to companies faced with withdrawals. For example, withdrawals of drugs from the public market by our customers or potential customers may result in the reduction of current levels of spending on software solutions and strategic consulting services by these companies to minimize the impact of a potential decline in revenues. In addition, we may provide products or services to 20 Table of Contents customers with drugs in the same class as the drugs withdrawn from the market. If the demand for drugs within the class of drugs faced with recent withdrawals decreases, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products or services in that class of drugs. A decrease in demand for our products, or a decrease in IT or research and development spending by pharmaceutical companies, could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our software and strategic consulting revenues and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Stock Our common stock only trades on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board system, and has experienced reduced trading volumes and stock price since it began to be traded there. On November 8, 2002 our stock was removed from trading on the Nasdaq National Market as a result of failure to meet the continuing listing requirements, and our common stock is now quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board system. Our common stock does not experience large trading volumes. In addition, our delisting from Nasdaq has caused the loss of our exemption from the provisions of Section 2115 of the California Corporations Code, which imposes particular aspects of California corporate law on certain non-California corporations operating within California. As a result, (i) our Board of Directors is no longer classified and our stockholders elect all of our directors at each annual meeting, (ii) our stockholders are entitled to cumulative voting, and (iii) we are subject to more stringent stockholder approval requirements and more stockholder-favorable dissenters’ rights in connection with certain strategic transactions. Some of these changes may impact any possible transaction involving a change of control of Pharsight, which could negatively impact your investment. Other consequences include a reduction in analyst coverage, a lower share price as a result of lower trading volumes, and the loss of certain state securities law exemptions available to us while our securities were traded on Nasdaq, which may impact our ability to provide for future issuances of our securities, among other consequences. Should we decide to relist our common stock on the Nasdaq, the criteria for relistment may be difficult for us to achieve. The market price of our common stock has been lower than the required minimum bid price for relistment on Nasdaq, and the reduced trading volumes that we currently experience may prevent our stock from reaching the required minimum bid price for Nasdaq relistment. Additionally, our current stockholders’ deficit and our history of net losses may make it difficult for us to relist on Nasdaq at any point in the near future, if at all. We may be required to restructure our capital or debt structure, including our redeemable convertible preferred stock, in order to relist on Nasdaq. There is no guarantee that we would be able to effect such restructuring under terms as favorable as our current equity and debt, if at all. The public market for our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and we expect it to continue to be, highly volatile and to fluctuate significantly in response to various factors, including: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or those of our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations or new services or products by us or our competitors; • timeliness of our introductions of new products; • changes in management; and • changes in the conditions and trends in the pharmaceutical market. For instance, during fiscal 2007 the trading price of our common stock closed as low as $1.21 and as high as $1.85 per share. We have experienced very low trading volume in our stock, and thus small purchases and sales can have a significant effect on our stock price. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the past year, that have affected the market prices of equity securities of 21 Table of Contents many technology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market factors may materially affect the trading price of our common stock. General economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions and interest rate fluctuations, may also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Insiders continue to hold a significant portion of our stock, which may negatively affect your investment. Entities affiliated with two of our directors beneficially own or control approximately 49.5% of outstanding common stock, calculated on an as-converted basis, as of March 31, 2007. If these parties choose to act or vote together, they will have the power to control all matters requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. This ability may have the effect of delaying or otherwise influencing a possible change in control transaction, which may or may not be favored by our other stockholders. In addition, without the consent of these parties, we would likely be prevented from entering into transactions that could result in our stockholders receiving a premium for their stock. The redemption of our preferred stock, or the election by the preferred stockholders to receive their dividend payments in shares instead of cash, may negatively affect our financial condition. Our preferred stockholders have elected in the past, and may continue to elect, to receive their quarterly dividend payments in the form of Series B Preferred shares instead of cash. Beginning on June 26, 2007, the holders of our preferred stock may elect to have us redeem all or a portion of their shares of preferred stock at any time, or we may elect to redeem all of the outstanding shares of preferred stock. If we were required, or if we elected, to redeem all the shares of preferred stock currently outstanding, this would entail a cash outlay of approximately $8 million. As a result, we may need to obtain additional funds or secure additional credit facilities. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Failure to raise additional funds could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, our preferred stockholders have elected in the past, and may continue to elect, to receive their quarterly dividend payments in the form of Series B Preferred shares instead of cash. We record the value of these dividend payments in the form of shares at fair market value as of the dividend payment date on our statement of operations. The fair market value is defined as the amount at which the capital stock would change hands between a willing buyer and a willing seller, each having reasonable knowledge of all relevant facts, neither being under any compulsion to act, with equity to both. Because there is no market for such Series B Preferred shares, we perform a valuation of the fair market value of these shares. This valuation is impacted by numerous factors, including but not limited to our operations, financial conditions, future prospects and projected operations and performance of the company, as well as historical market prices and trading volume for our publicly traded securities. As such, the valuation of these dividend payments may fluctuate widely, may be greater or lesser than the stated value of the Series B Preferred shares, and may affect our ability to sustain or increase our profitability. We are unable to project with any accuracy the impact of fair market value of the Series B Preferred shares on our statement of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 