Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following specific risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as these are important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all our potential risks or uncertainties. Some statements in this “Business” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are “forward-looking statements” and are qualified by the cautionary language regarding such statements. The successful implementation of our business strategy depends on our ability to generate cash flows from our existing operations and other factors. We have refocused our business strategy on the development of additional resort and convention center hotels in selected locations in the United States, on our ResortQuest vacation rental and property management business and on our attractions properties, including the Grand Ole Opry, which are focused primarily on the country music genre. The success of our future operating results depends on our ability to implement our business strategy by successfully operating the Gaylord Opryland, the Gaylord Palms and the Gaylord Texan, by successfully developing and financing our proposed Gaylord National hotel project near Washington, D.C. and by further exploiting our attractions assets and our vacation rental business. Our ability to do this depends upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These include: • our ability to generate cash flows from existing operations; • our ability to hire and retain hotel management, catering and convention-related staff for our hotels and staff for our vacation rental offices; • our ability to successfully attract and maintain increased levels of customer and homeowner utilization of our ResortQuest vacation rental and property management business; • our ability to capitalize on the strong brand recognition of certain of our Opry and Attractions assets; and • the continued popularity and demand for country music. If we are unable to successfully implement the business strategies described above, our cash flows and net income may be reduced. Our hotel and convention business and our vacation rental and property management business are subject to significant market risks. Our ability to continue to successfully operate our hotel and convention business, as well as our ability to operate our ResortQuest vacation rental business, is subject to factors beyond our control which could reduce the revenue and operating income of these properties. These factors include: • the desirability and perceived attractiveness of the Nashville, Tennessee area; the Orlando, Florida area; and the Dallas, Texas area as tourist and convention destinations; • the ability of our proposed Gaylord National hotel project near Washington, D.C. to operate in a new market which is extremely competitive; • adverse changes in the national economy and in the levels of tourism and convention business that would affect our hotels or vacation rental properties we manage; 12 Table of Contents • our ability to continue to attract group convention business; • the opening of the Gaylord National or other new hotels could impact our group convention business at our existing hotel properties; • the hotel and convention business is highly competitive, and the Gaylord Palms and the Gaylord Texan are operating in extremely competitive markets for convention and tourism business; • our group convention business is subject to reduced levels of demand during the year-end holiday periods, and we may not be able to attract sufficient general tourism guests to offset this seasonality; and • the vacation rental and property management business is highly competitive and has low barriers to entry, and we compete primarily with local vacation rental and property management companies located in our markets, some of whom are affiliated with the owners or operators of resorts where these competitors provide their services or which may have lower cost structures and may provide their services at lower rates. Our efforts to improve or divest the ResortQuest business involves substantial risks. Since our acquisition of ResortQuest in November 2003, we have invested substantial capital and management efforts in integrating and realigning ResortQuest’s operations, including advancing its technology, making strategic acquisitions and divestitures to focus our property management on key markets, and terminating unprofitable management contracts. We are currently considering certain strategic alternatives for our ResortQuest business, including but not limited to a possible divestiture of all or a portion of the business. If we are either not successful in improving the operations and profitability of ResortQuest or in divesting the business, then our overall business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects could be adversely affected. Unanticipated costs of hotels we open in new markets, including our Gaylord National hotel project, may reduce our operating income. As part of our growth plans, we may open or acquire new hotels in geographic areas in which we have little or no operating experience and in which potential customers may not be familiar with our business. As a result, we may have to incur costs relating to the opening, operation and promotion of those new hotel properties that are substantially greater than those incurred in other areas. Even though we may incur substantial additional costs with these new hotel properties, they may attract fewer customers than our existing hotels. As a result, the results of operations at new hotel properties may be inferior to those of our existing hotels. The new hotels may even operate at a loss. Even if we are able to attract enough customers to our new hotel properties to operate them at a profit, it is possible that those customers could simply be moving future meetings or conventions from our existing hotel properties to our new hotel properties. Thus, the opening of a new hotel property could reduce the revenue of our existing hotel properties. Our hotel development, including our Gaylord National hotel project, is subject to timing, budgeting and other risks. We intend to develop additional hotel properties as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. New project development has a number of risks, including risks associated with: • construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; • construction defects or noncompliance with construction specifications; • receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • other risks of construction described below; • development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; • so-called acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could delay the development of a project; • the availability and cost of capital; and • governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion. 13 Table of Contents Our development projects may not be completed on time or within budget. Our plans to develop the Gaylord National hotel project are subject to numerous risks. Our plans to develop the Gaylord National hotel are subject to market conditions, the availability of financing, receipt of necessary building permits and other authorizations, and other factors, including those described in the preceding and following risk factors. Because the project is still more than a year away from completion and certain portions of the project have not been bid or contracted, we cannot be certain of the final costs of the project. As more fully described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, as of the date of this filing, we have in place a guaranteed maximum price construction contract with our general contractor for the Gaylord National project covering the majority of the work to be performed at this project. As additional portions of the Gaylord National project are bid and contracted, they are being added to our existing guaranteed maximum price contract by way of amendment. Because we do not have the entire project under contract at this time, there is a risk that the total construction cost for the project could increase beyond our current estimates or that the necessary contractors and subcontractors, as well as materials, will not be available. The anticipated costs and completion dates for the Gaylord National are based on budgets, designs, development and construction documents and schedule estimates that we have prepared with the assistance of architects and our general contractor and that are subject to change as the design, development and construction documents are finalized and more actual construction work is performed. A failure to complete the Gaylord National on budget or on schedule may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We intend to use cash flow from operations, our $600 million credit facility, and governmental incentives to finance the costs of constructing and opening the Gaylord National. We may seek additional debt or equity financing for this or other projects. In addition, our $600 million credit facility requires the Gaylord National to be substantially completed by June 30, 2008 (subject to customary force majeure provisions) and currently limits the aggregate amount of capital expenditures made to complete the project. The failure to obtain the necessary financing, or to satisfy or receive waivers of the credit facility requirements, could adversely affect our ability to construct the Gaylord National and any other hotel projects in the future. In addition, we do not have experience operating in the Washington, D.C. market. We cannot assure you that the project will be completed, that it will be opened on time or on budget, or that its future operations will be successful. There are significant risks associated with our planned construction projects, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from these planned projects. Our ongoing and future construction projects, such as the Gaylord National, entail significant risks. Construction activity requires us to obtain qualified contractors and subcontractors, the availability of which may be uncertain. Construction projects are subject to cost overruns and delays caused by events outside of our control or, in certain cases, our contractors’ control, such as shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases and unavailability of construction materials or equipment. Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite materials, licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from governmental or regulatory authorities, construction defects or non-compliance with construction specification, could increase the total cost, delay, jeopardize or prevent the construction or opening of such projects or otherwise affect the design and features of the Gaylord National or other projects. In addition, we will be required to obtain financing for development projects and to use cash flow from operations for development and construction. We may seek additional debt or equity financing for development and construction projects. We have no financing plans for projects other than the Gaylord National, and we do not know if any needed financing will be available on favorable terms. Our real estate investments are subject to numerous risks. Because we own hotels and attractions properties, we are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property. The investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the related properties, as well as the expenses incurred. In addition, a variety of other factors affect income from properties and real estate values, including governmental regulations, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. For example, new or existing real estate zoning or tax laws can make it more expensive and/or time-consuming to develop real property or expand, modify or renovate properties. When interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decreases. Similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult both to acquire and to sell real property. Finally, governments can, under eminent domain laws, take real property. Sometimes this taking is for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, equity real estate investments, such as the investments we hold and any additional properties that we may acquire, are relatively difficult to sell 14 Table of Contents quickly. If our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our income will be reduced. Our hotel and vacation rental properties are concentrated geographically and our revenues and operating income could be reduced by adverse conditions specific to our property locations. Our existing hotel properties are located predominately in the southeastern United States. As a result, our business and our financial operating results may be materially affected by adverse economic, weather or business conditions in the Southeast. In addition, our ResortQuest vacation rental business manages properties that are significantly concentrated in beach and island resorts located in Florida and Hawaii and mountain resorts located in Colorado. Adverse events or conditions which affect these areas in particular, such as economic recession, changes in regional travel patterns, extreme weather conditions or natural disasters, may have an adverse impact on our ResortQuest operations. Our ResortQuest operations in the coastal areas of the Southeast have been adversely impacted by hurricanes in recent years, with many units out of service for extended periods, and we may experience a significant impact on our results of operations if future adverse weather conditions occur. Hospitality companies have been the target of class actions and other lawsuits alleging violations of federal and state law. Our operating income and profits may be reduced by legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of our employees or customers. In recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits have been instituted against us from time to time, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our properties are subject to environmental regulations that could impose significant financial liability on us. Environmental laws, ordinances and regulations of various federal, state, local and foreign governments regulate certain of our properties and could make us liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the properties we currently own or operate or those we previously owned or operated. Those laws could impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to develop, use, sell or rent the real property or to borrow using the real property as collateral. If we arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes, we could be liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up wastes at the disposal or treatment facility, even if we never owned or operated that facility. Other laws, ordinances and regulations could require us to manage, abate or remove lead- or asbestos-containing materials. Similarly, the operation and closure of storage tanks are often regulated by federal, state, local and foreign laws. Finally, certain laws, ordinances and regulations, particularly those governing the management or preservation of wetlands, coastal zones and threatened or endangered species, could limit our ability to develop, use, sell or rent our real property. Any failure to attract, retain and integrate senior and managerial level executives could negatively impact our operations and development of our properties. Our future performance depends upon our ability to attract qualified senior executives, retain their services and integrate them into our business. Our future financial results also will depend upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial and marketing personnel in our different areas of operation. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and is likely to increase in the future. We compete for qualified personnel against companies with significantly greater financial resources than ours. We have certain minority equity interests over which we have no significant control, to or for which we may owe significant obligations and for which there is no readily available market, and these investments may not be profitable. We have certain minority investments which are not liquid and over which we have little or no rights, or ability, to exercise the direction or control of the respective enterprises. These include our equity interests in Viacom and CBS, Bass Pro, RHAC, LLC (the entity which owns the ResortQuest Waikiki Beach Hotel), and Waipouli Holdings, LLC (the entity which owns the ResortQuest Kauai Beach Hotel at Makaiwa). When we make these investments, we sometimes extend guarantees related to such investments. The ultimate value of each of these investments will be dependent upon the efforts of others over an extended period of time. The nature of our interests and the absence of a readily available market for those interests restricts our ability to dispose of them. Our lack of control over the management of these businesses and the lack of a readily available market to sell our interest in these businesses may cause us to recognize a loss on our investment in these businesses. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition, we may enter into joint venture 15 Table of Contents arrangements. These arrangements are subject to uncertainties and risks, including those related to conflicting joint venture partner interests and to our joint venture partners failing to meet their financial or other obligations. We are subject to risks relating to acts of God, terrorist activity and war. Our operating income may be reduced by acts of God, such as natural disasters or acts of terror, in locations where we own and/or operate significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers. In January of 2007, the Army Corps of Engineers announced that the Wolf Creek Dam on Lake Cumberland in Kentucky was at high risk for structural failure. A significant portion of our Gaylord Opryland property in Nashville is in the Cumberland river flood plain if the Dam should fail, and the Corps has announced it is taking immediate action to reduce the chances of any type of flood. Some types of losses, such as from flood, earthquake, hurricane, terrorism and environmental hazards, may be either uninsurable or too expensive to justify insuring against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Similarly, wars (including the potential for war), terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity), political unrest and other forms of civil strife as well as geopolitical uncertainty may cause in the future our results to differ materially from anticipated results. The hospitality industry and the vacation and property management industry are heavily regulated, including with respect to food and beverage sales, real estate brokerage licensing, employee relations and construction concerns, and compliance with these regulations could increase our costs and reduce our revenues and profits. Our hotel operations are subject to numerous laws, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and beverages, liquor service and health and safety of premises. Our vacation rental operations are also subject to licensing requirements applicable to real estate operations, laws and regulations relating to consumer protection and local ordinances. We are also subject to laws regulating our relationship with our employees in areas such as hiring and firing, minimum wage and maximum working hours, overtime and working conditions. Although no employees at our hotels are currently represented by labor unions, labor union organizing activities may take place at any new hotel property we open. Additionally, we may in the future experience attempts to unionize employees at our existing hotels. A lengthy strike or other work stoppage at one of our hotels, or the threat of such activity, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The success of expanding our hotel operations also depends upon our obtaining necessary building permits and zoning variances from local authorities. Compliance with these laws is time intensive and costly and may reduce our revenues and operating income. If vacation rental property owners do not renew a significant number of property management contracts, revenues and operating income from our ResortQuest vacation rental business would be reduced. Through our ResortQuest vacation rental business, we provide rental and property management services to property owners pursuant to management contracts, which generally have one-year terms. The majority of such contracts contain automatic renewal provisions but also allow property owners to terminate the contract at any time. If property owners do not renew a significant number of management contracts or if we are unable to attract additional property owners, revenues and operating income for our ResortQuest business may be reduced. In addition, although most of its contracts are exclusive, industry standards in certain geographic markets dictate that rental services be provided on a non-exclusive basis. Our substantial debt could reduce our cash flow and limit our business activities. We currently have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2006, we had $755.6 million of total debt, exclusive of our $613.1 million secured forward exchange contract, and stockholders’ equity of $798.0 million. Our substantial amount of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the hospitality industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that are less leveraged; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and 16 Table of Contents • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity. In addition, the terms of our $600 million credit facility and the indentures governing our 8% senior notes and our 6.75% senior notes allow us to incur substantial amounts of additional debt subject to certain limitations. Any such additional debt could increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. Our substantial leverage is evidenced by our earnings being insufficient to cover fixed charges by $104.2 million and $47.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At the time any principal amount of our indebtedness is due, we may not have cash available to pay this amount, and we may not be able to refinance this indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. We may incur additional debt in connection with our planned expansion of the Gaylord National hotel project or any additional hotel development. The agreements governing our debt, including our 8% senior notes, our 6.75% senior notes and our $600 million credit facility, contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and could lead to acceleration of debt. Our existing financial agreements, including our $600 million credit facility and the senior notes, impose, and future financing agreements are likely to impose, operating and financial restrictions on our activities. These restrictions require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios, including minimum consolidated net worth, minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratios, and limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; • create liens; • redeem and/or prepay certain debt; • pay dividends on our stock to our stockholders or repurchase our stock; • make certain investments; • enter new lines of business; • engage in consolidations, mergers and acquisitions; • make certain capital expenditures; and • pay dividends and make other distributions from our subsidiaries to us. These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and maintain these financial tests and ratios. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity for the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations, including our obligations under the notes. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. Fluctuations in our operating results and other factors may result in decreases in our stock price. In recent periods, the market price for our common stock has fluctuated substantially. From time to time, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. We believe that the current market price of our common stock reflects expectations that we will be able to continue to operate our existing hotels profitably and to develop new hotel properties profitably. If we are unable to accomplish this, investors could sell shares of our common stock at or after the time that it becomes apparent that the expectations of the market may not be realized, resulting in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In addition to our operating results, the operating results of other hospitality companies, changes in financial estimates or recommendations by analysts, adverse weather conditions, increased construction costs, increased labor and other costs, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets or other developments affecting us or our industry, such as the recent terrorist attacks, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. 17 Table of Contents To service our debt and pay other obligations, we will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us. Our ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, our debt, including any future debt we may incur, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend largely upon our future operating performance and our ability to generate cash from operations. Our future performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future to make payments on our debt will depend on the satisfaction of the covenants and financial ratios in our $600 million credit facility and our other debt agreements, including the indentures governing our 6.75% senior notes and our 8% senior notes and other agreements we may enter into in the future. At the expiration of the secured forward exchange contract relating to shares of Viacom and CBS stock we own, we will be required to incur additional debt or use any cash on hand to pay the estimated $141.5 million deferred tax payable at that time, which we anticipate will be reduced by approximately one third to one-half through the application of the Company’s Federal and state income tax net operating loss carryforwards and Federal income tax credit carryforwards. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or we may not have future borrowings available to us under our $600 million credit facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, to fund our tax liability or to fund our other liquidity needs. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could make it difficult for a third party to acquire our company. The Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company or our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions: • authorize us to issue “blank check’’ preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors, without stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of common stock; • provide that directors may only be removed with cause by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes of shares entitled to vote thereon; • establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at meeting; • provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by our chairman or by majority of the members of our board of directors; • impose restrictions on ownership of our common stock by non-United States persons due to our ownership of a radio station; and • prohibit stockholder actions taken on written consent. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could also delay or prevent a change of control. Together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage transactions that otherwise could provide for the payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for publicly traded equity securities, and also could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our publicly traded equity securities. We have considered other measures such as adoption of a stockholder rights plan. Although we have not adopted such a plan to date, we may do so in the future. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock and discourage a takeover. Our board of directors has the power to issue up to 100.0 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. As of February 1, 2007, we had no shares of preferred stock outstanding. Our board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any new series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or in the event of a dissolution, liquidation or winding up and other terms. In the event that we issue additional shares of preferred stock in the future that have preference over our common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, the ability of our board of directors to 18 Table of Contents issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders may impede a takeover of us and prevent a transaction favorable to our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 