Item 1A: Risk Factors If physicians do not adopt and utilize our Closure system, we will not achieve greater revenue, may not maintain our current revenue, and we may not be profitable. Our success depends on whether physicians view our Closure system as safe, effective and economically beneficial. We believe that physicians will not adopt and utilize our Closure system unless they determine, based on experience and other factors, that our Closure procedure is an attractive alternative to other available treatment methods, including vein stripping and EVL. We also believe that recommendations and support of our Closure procedure by influential physicians and other healthcare providers are important for market acceptance and adoption. In addition, we recommend that a physician performing our Closure procedure use noninvasive ultrasound imaging during the procedure and for preparation and follow-up purposes. The purchase of ultrasound imaging equipment is an additional capital expenditure for many physicians. After purchasing our RF generator, a physician needs to purchase a new Closure catheter for each procedure. Sales of our disposable Closure catheters are a major component of our overall revenues. If physicians do not continue to utilize our Closure system by reordering catheters at least at current levels, we will not achieve greater revenue, may not maintain our current revenue and our stock price may significantly decline. Competition from existing and new products and procedures may decrease our market share and cause our revenues to decline. The medical device industry, including the market for venous reflux disease treatments, is highly competitive, subject to rapid technological change and significantly affected by new product introductions and market activities of other participants. 12 Table of Contents Several companies are marketing EVL products for the treatment of venous reflux disease. These companies include AngioDynamics, Inc., biolitec AG, Dornier MedTech GmbH, New Star Lasers, Inc. doing business as CoolTouch Inc., Sciton, Inc., Total Vein Systems and Vascular Solutions, Inc. Most of these companies’ EVL products for the treatment of venous reflux disease include laser fibers that are offered at lower prices than the price of our disposable catheters. These or other competitors may also succeed in developing additional products that are superior to our Closure system or that otherwise render our Closure system obsolete or noncompetitive. Some of these companies are larger than us or may enjoy competitive advantages, including: • products and procedures that are less expensive; • perceived benefits in product performance and clinical outcomes; • established distribution networks; • greater experience in launching, marketing, distributing and selling products; • established relationships with physicians, healthcare providers and payors; and • greater financial and other resources for product development or sales and marketing. Because of the size of the venous reflux market, we anticipate that new or existing competitors may develop competing products, procedures or clinical solutions. These products, procedures or solutions could prove to be more effective, faster, safer or less costly than our Closure system and procedure. The introduction of new products, procedures or clinical solutions by competitors may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share and may render our products obsolete. In addition, since the first quarter of 2005, we have discounted the sales price of our catheters to improve our competitive position. Continued discounting in the future could cause our revenue or profit margins to decline and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $35.0 million. While we were profitable in 2008, we had a net loss in 2006 and 2007. We intend to increase operating expenses in 2009 in areas such as research and development and sales and marketing. Also, fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results of operations have and will continue to result from numerous factors, including: • physician and patient acceptance of our products and procedures; • cost of manufacturing our Closure system; • the effect of competition from existing and new products and procedures; • fluctuations in the demand for our products, including seasonal demand, the timing of orders received and the timing of new product introductions; • fluctuations in demand in the United States market for our products and those competitor products subject to royalty payments under our licensing agreements as a result of weak market and economic conditions, which may result in decreased revenue, earnings or growth rates and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables; • our ability to recognize revenue from the sales of our products; • our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and defend against third party challenges; • our ability to hire and train key personnel, including management, sales and technical personnel; • practices of insurance companies and Medicare with respect to reimbursement for our procedure and our products; • delays or interruptions in manufacturing and shipping of our products, which may result from our dependence on third-party suppliers; • the results of future clinical trial data, including long-term randomized trial data; 13 Table of Contents • litigation, including patent litigation, product liability claims and securities litigation; • the quality of products we sell; • failure to comply with current government regulations and announcements of changes in government regulations affecting us or our competitors; • failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals and clearances to market our products; • our ability to train physicians in performing our Closure procedure; and • fluctuations in demand in the international markets where we sell our products. These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. If our quarterly or annual operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. We believe the quarterly or annual comparisons of our financial results are not always meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. In addition, we anticipate that our operating expenses will increase in the foreseeable future as we continue to expand our sales and marketing, manufacturing and product development activities. Recent adverse changes in US, global, or regional economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our business. Recent global market and economic conditions have become increasingly negative with tighter credit conditions and recession in most major economies continuing into 2009. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished economic expectations. In the second half of 2008, added concerns fueled by the United States government conservatorship of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Federal National Mortgage Association, the declared bankruptcy of a large financial institution, United States government financial assistance to major banks, insurance companies, other financial institutions and other federal government interventions in the United States financial system lead to increased market uncertainty and instability in both the United States and international capital and credit markets. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have lead to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers. Continued turbulence in the United States and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending could result in lower sales of our products, lower reported royalties from our licensees, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, additional excess and obsolete inventory, gross margin deterioration, slower adoption of new technologies, increased price competition and/or supplier difficulties, any of which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products, which could enable third parties to use our technology or methods, or very similar technology or methods, and could reduce our ability to compete. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We have in the past, and we may in the future, need to assert claims or engage in litigation to protect our proprietary rights, which could cause us to incur substantial costs, place significant strain on our financial resources, and divert the attention of management from our business. In 2005, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit, which we refer to as the 2005 Patent Lawsuit, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against Diomed Holdings, Inc., Diomed, Inc., AngioDynamics, Inc. and Vascular Solutions, Inc. After approximately three years of litigation, the 2005 Patent Lawsuit concluded in 2008 in our Settlement Agreement with AngioDynamics 14 Table of Contents and Vascular Solutions, and in a settlement of our claims against Diomed’s bankruptcy estate. In 2008, we filed patent infringement lawsuits, which we refer to as the 2008 Patent Lawsuits, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against Biolitec, Inc., Dornier Medtech America, Inc., NewStar Lasers, Inc. d/b/a CoolTouch, Inc., and Total Vein Solutions, LLC d/b/a Total Vein Systems. The 2008 Patent Lawsuits remain pending. For a discussion regarding this litigation, see Part I, Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings” below. We may incur substantial costs in pursuing the 2008 Patent Lawsuits, and the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions, to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Our patent applications may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, in litigation such as the 2008 Patent Lawsuits, or otherwise, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, there is no assurance that third parties will not be able to design around our patents. In addition, although we have entered into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Foreign countries generally do not allow patents to cover methods for performing surgical procedures. If our intellectual property does not provide significant protection against competition, our competitors could compete more directly with us, which could result in a decrease in our market share. All of these factors may harm our competitive position. Inadequate levels of reimbursement for our Closure procedure from governmental or other third-party payors could affect the adoption or use of our Closure system and may cause our revenues to decline. Continued use of our Closure system by the medical community is unlikely to be maintained if physicians do not receive sufficient reimbursement from payors for performing our Closure procedure. Our Closure procedure is reimbursed by private healthcare insurance, managed care payors and Medicare. Many private payors use reimbursement amounts benchmarked off of amounts determined by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services or CMS which administers the Medicare program, as a guideline in setting their reimbursement policies. CMS reduced the amount of reimbursement for endovenous vein ablation in 2007, 2008 and 2009 for procedures performed in the office. Further actions by CMS or other government agencies may diminish reimbursement payments to physicians, hospitals and outpatient surgery centers. Additionally, some private payors do not follow the Medicare guidelines and those payors may reimburse for only a portion of our procedure, or not at all. Even to the extent our Closure procedure is reimbursed by private and governmental payors, adverse changes in payors’ policies toward reimbursement for the procedure would also harm our ability to market and sell our Closure system. We are unable to predict all changes to the reimbursement methodologies that will be employed by private or governmental third-party payors. In January 2007, CMS announced its revised payment methodology for Medicare reimbursement of physician fees in the office setting, to be phased in over the next four years. As a result, Medicare payment of physician fees for performing the Closure procedure in the office will decrease through 2010. We are unable to predict whether CMS will make additional revisions to Medicare payments or whether private healthcare insurers will establish payment rates similar to Medicare. For some governmental payors, such as the Medicaid program, reimbursement differs from state to state, and some state Medicaid programs may not reimburse for our procedure in an adequate amount, if at all. Possible changes in healthcare policy by a new United States government administration could result in either uncertainty about future reimbursement for our closure procedure, or a lowering of payments to providers such as doctors or hospitals. Any lack of private or governmental third-party payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for procedures performed using our Closure system could harm our business and reduce our revenues. 15 Table of Contents Our international success is dependent upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing foreign healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly from country to country and include both government-sponsored healthcare and private insurance. In addition, healthcare cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the United States are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we sell our Closure system, and these efforts are expected to continue. To the extent our Closure system has historically received reimbursement under a foreign healthcare payment system, such reimbursement has typically been significantly less than the reimbursement provided in the United States. If adequate levels of reimbursement from governmental and third-party payors outside of the United States are not attained and maintained, sales of our Closure system outside of the United States may decrease, and we may fail to achieve or maintain significant international sales. Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers, some of whom are sole-source, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. Byers Peak, Inc. is, and we expect for the foreseeable future will be, a sole-source supplier of our RF generator. While the initial term of the supply agreement with Byers Peak expired in February 2007, the contract continues indefinitely until terminated by either party upon 180 days’ notice. We and our contract manufacturers also rely on sole-source suppliers to manufacture some of the components used in our products. Our manufacturers and suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, including the FDA’s Quality System Regulations, equipment malfunction and environmental factors, any of which could delay or impede our ability to meet demand. Our reliance on these outside manufacturers and suppliers also subjects us to other risks that could harm our business, including: • our suppliers may make errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the efficacy or safety of our products or cause delays in shipment or recalls of our products; • we may not be able to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • we may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for our disposable catheter components or RF generators; • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements; • switching components may require product redesign and submission to the FDA which could significantly delay production; and • our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for the products those suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver components for us in a timely manner. Any interruption or delay in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competitive procedures. To mitigate the risk of supply interruptions from a sole-source supplier, we may determine to maintain excess inventory of the products or components they supply. Managing our inventory levels is important to our cash position and results of operations. An excessive amount of inventory reduces our cash available for operations and may result in excess or obsolete materials. Inadequate inventory levels may make it difficult for us to meet customer product demand, resulting in decreased revenues. An inability to forecast future revenues or estimated life cycles of products may result in inventory-related charges that would negatively affect our gross margins and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile, which may cause the value of our stock to decline or subject us to a securities class action litigation. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • general economic, industry and market conditions; • actions by institutional or other large stockholders; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • volume and timing of orders for our products; • developments generally affecting medical device companies; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • investor perceptions of us and our business, including changes in market valuations of medical device companies; • our results of operations and financial performance. In particular, if our existing stockholders, for example, institutional or other large stockholders, sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell large numbers of shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Stock Market and the market for medical devices in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume volatility that is often seemingly unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company after a period of volatility in the market price of its common stock. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any securities litigation claims brought against us could result in substantial expense and the diversion of management’s attention from our business. If we fail to achieve and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting on a consolidated basis, our ability to provide accurate financial reports could be impaired and our stock price and investor confidence in our company could be materially and adversely affected. As a public company, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Section 404”), which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm that both addresses management’s assessments and internal controls. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and help prevent fraud. To the extent that ineffective internal controls are part of our disclosure controls and procedures, there is also a risk that we would not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue a favorable assessment if we conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are ineffective. We also cannot be certain that the measures we implement will ensure that we maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. If we reach the conclusion that our controls are ineffective, if we fail to implement required new or improved controls or encounter difficulties in their implementation or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially harmed, we could encounter difficulties attracting and retaining quality management personnel or directors to serve on our audit committee, we could be subjected to costly litigation and increased legal and financial compliance costs and our stock price could decline significantly. 17 Table of Contents To successfully grow our business, we will need to attract additional qualified personnel and retain key personnel. To successfully grow our business, we will need to attract additional qualified personnel, including management and technical personnel. To succeed in the implementation of our business strategy, our management team must rapidly execute our sales strategy, achieve continuing market acceptance for our Closure system and further develop products, while managing anticipated growth by implementing effective planning, manufacturing and operating processes. Managing this growth will require us to attract and retain additional management and technical personnel. Our offices are located in San Jose, California, where competition for employees with experience in the medical device industry is intense. We rely on direct sales employees to sell our Closure system in the United States and in portions of Europe. We have expanded our sales team and failure to adequately train our employees in the use and benefits of our products will prevent us from achieving our market share and revenue growth goals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the additional personnel necessary to grow and expand our business and operations. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, in particular our sales force, we may be unable to grow our business. We lack published long-term randomized trial data comparing the efficacy of our Closure procedure with vein stripping and EVL. If future data proves to be inconsistent with our clinical results, our revenues may decline. Currently, there is no randomized trial data beyond two years comparing the long-term efficacy of our Closure procedure to alternative treatments. Additional long-term patient follow-up studies may indicate that our Closure procedure is not as effective as vein stripping or EVL. Currently available published data from a comparative study of our Closure procedure versus vein stripping is limited to the two-year period following treatment. If new studies or comparative studies generate results that are not as favorable as our clinical results, our revenues may decline. Furthermore, physicians may choose not to purchase our Closure system and insurers may choose not to provide reimbursement for our Closure procedure until they receive additional published long-term clinical evidence and recommendations from prominent physicians that indicate our Closure system effectively treats venous reflux disease. We sell our products internationally and are subject to various risks relating to such international activities, which could harm our international sales and profitability. During the year ended December 31, 2008, 10% of our net revenues were attributable to international markets. By doing business in international markets, we are exposed to risks separate and distinct from those we face in our domestic operations. Our international business may be adversely affected by changing economic conditions in foreign countries. Because some of our sales are currently denominated in United States dollars, if the value of the United States dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, our revenue could decline or products could become more costly to the international consumer and therefore less competitive in international markets, which could adversely affect our profitability. Furthermore, while currently only a small percentage of our sales are denominated in non- United States currency, this percentage may increase in the future, in which case fluctuations in exchange rates could affect demand for our products. Engaging in international business inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including: • export restrictions and controls relating to technology; • the availability and level of reimbursement within prevailing foreign healthcare payment systems; • difficulties in enforcing single use device labeling; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • required compliance with existing and new foreign regulatory requirements and laws; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles; 18 Table of Contents • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • international political and economic instability; • potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs and other trade barriers; • international terrorism and anti-American sentiment; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights. Our exposure to each of these risks may increase our costs, lengthen our sales cycle and require significant management attention. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. If we become subject to product liability claims and our product liability insurance coverage is inadequate or inapplicable, we may be required to engage in costly litigation or pay significant damages, and our business may be harmed. The manufacture and sale of our products may expose us to product liability claims and product recalls, including those that may arise from the misuse or malfunction of, or design flaws in, our products, or use of our products with components not manufactured by us. Our Closure procedure may result in a variety of complications, some of which are potentially serious. The most serious potential complications include a pulmonary embolism, which is a blood clot that travels to the lungs and may cause shortness of breath or even death, blood clots in deep veins, skin burns and nerve inflammation. Successful results using our Closure system are dependent upon physician technique. Although we inform physicians of the risks associated with failing to follow the proper technique when performing our Closure procedure, we cannot assure you that these efforts will prevent complications. We carry product liability insurance that is limited in scope and amount and may not be adequate to fully protect us against product liability claims. We could be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. Any product liability claim, with or without merit, could result in an increase in our product liability insurance rates or our inability to secure coverage on reasonable terms, if at all. Even in the absence of a claim, our insurance rates may rise in the future to a point where we decide not to carry this insurance. Even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim would be time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of management’s attention from our business. In addition, product liability claims that call into question the safety or efficacy of our products could cause injury to our reputation and may potentially result in customers seeking alternative treatment methods. Any of these events could negatively affect our earnings and financial condition. The medical device industry is characterized by patent litigation, and we could become subject to litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of management’s attention and require us to pay damages and discontinue selling our products. The medical device industry is characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Our competitors may assert that our system or the methods we employ in the use of our system are covered by United States or foreign patents held by them. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that there are numerous issued and pending patents relating to the use of RF energy in catheter-based procedures in the medical technology field. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our Closure system may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are unaware that one or more components of our system may inadvertently infringe. As the number of competitors in the market for the treatment of venous reflux disease grows, the possibility of inadvertent patent infringement by us or a patent infringement claim against us increases. 19 Table of Contents Any litigation or claim against us may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe them, we could be prevented from selling our Closure system unless we can obtain a license to use the technology or ideas covered by such patent or are able to redesign our Closure system to avoid infringement. A license may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid any infringement. Modification of our products or development of new products could require us to conduct additional clinical trials and to revise our filings with the FDA and other regulatory bodies, which would be time-consuming and expensive. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our products, we may be unable to sell our products and our business would suffer. In addition, our patents are vulnerable to various invalidity attacks (in litigation including the 2008 Patent Lawsuits, or otherwise), such as those based upon earlier patent applications, patents, publications, products or processes, which might invalidate or limit the scope of the protection that our patents afford. If we are unable to manufacture an adequate supply of our products, we could lose customers and revenues and our growth could be limited or halted. In order for us to maintain and expand our business successfully within the United States and internationally, we must manufacture commercial quantities of components that comprise our Closure system in compliance with regulatory requirements at an acceptable cost and on a timely basis. Our anticipated growth may strain our ability to manufacture an increasingly large supply of our products. Manufacturing facilities often experience difficulties in scaling up production, including problems with production yields, process changes and quality control and assurance. In addition, precision manufacturing, as is required to manufacture our products, is subject to human error and it is possible that we may not follow our own internal controls when manufacturing our products. If we cannot scale or maintain our manufacturing operations appropriately, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to anticipated growth, or if we have underestimated our future growth, we may not have the capability to satisfy market demand, which would harm our business. If we fail to comply with the extensive government regulations relating to our business, we may be subject to fines, injunctions and penalties. Our products are classified as medical devices. Medical devices are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. FDA regulations specific to medical devices are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: • design, development and manufacturing; • testing; • clinical trials in humans; • electronic product safety; • labeling; • storage; • marketing; • premarket clearance or approval; • record keeping procedures; • advertising and promotion; • post-market surveillance and reporting of deaths, serious injuries or malfunctions; and • export. Our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations, which cover the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, 20 Table of Contents packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA enforces its Quality System Regulations through periodic unannounced inspections. If our manufacturing facility fails a Quality System inspection, our operations and manufacturing could be interrupted. Failure to take adequate and timely corrective action in response to an adverse Quality System inspection could force a shutdown of our manufacturing operations or a recall of our products. Compliance with these regulations can be complex, expensive and time-consuming. If we fail to comply with such regulations, we could be subject to the imposition of injunctions, suspensions or loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, orders for repair, replacement or refund, customer notifications, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties. In the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities or those of our suppliers are possible. If we are required to shut down our manufacturing operations or recall any of our products, we may not be able to provide our customers with the quantity of products they require, and we could lose customers and suffer reduced revenue. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of high quality products to meet customer demand on a timely basis, we could lose customers, our growth could be limited or halted and our business could be harmed. We are also subject to medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or if they malfunction. It is possible that claims could be made against us alleging that our products are defective or unsafe. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in an enforcement action by the FDA. The identification of serious safety risks could result in product recalls or withdrawal of our clearance or approval. The imposition of any one or more of these penalties could have a negative effect on our business, product sales and profitability. Our third party component manufacturers may also be subject to the same sanctions and, as a result, may be unable to supply components for our products. Any failure to retain governmental clearances or approvals that we currently hold or to obtain additional similar clearances or approvals could prevent us from successfully marketing our products and technology and could harm our operating results. Furthermore, changes in the applicable governmental regulations could prevent further commercialization of our products and technologies and could harm our business. We depend on our officers, and if we are not able to retain them or recruit additional qualified personnel, our business will suffer. We are highly dependent on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Brian E. Farley, and other officers. Due to the specialized knowledge each of our officers possesses with respect to our Closure system and our operations, the loss of service of one or more of these individuals could significantly affect our ability to operate and manage our business. We do not have any insurance in the event of the death or disability of any of these key personnel. Each of our officers may terminate their employment without notice and without cause or good reason. During 2007, five of our officers resigned. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain other qualified personnel or recruit other qualified personnel in the event of any future terminations. If we fail to manage our exposure to global financial and securities market risk successfully, our operating results and financial statements could be materially impacted. The primary objective of most of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, a majority of our marketable investments are investment grade, liquid, fixed-income securities and money market instruments denominated in United States dollars. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the performance of certain securities in our investment portfolio correlates with the credit condition of United States government agencies and corporate issuers. If the current unstable credit environment and market conditions continue or worsen, we may incur significant realized, unrealized or impairment losses associated with these or other investments, which could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents If we choose to acquire new and complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves, we may be unable to complete these acquisitions or to successfully integrate them in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing customer demands, competitive pressures and technologies. Accordingly, we may in the future pursue the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves. We do not know if we will be able to successfully complete any acquisitions, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology or retain any key employees. Integrating any business, product or technology we acquire could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. If we are unable to integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our business will suffer. In addition, any amortization or charges resulting from the costs of acquisitions could increase our expenses. Any failure in our efforts to train physicians could reduce the market acceptance of our products and reduce our revenues. There is a learning process involved for physicians to become proficient in the use of our products. It is critical to the success of our sales efforts to adequately train a sufficient number of physicians and to provide them with adequate instruction in the use of our Closure system and ClosureRFS devices. Following completion of training, we rely on the trained physicians to advocate the benefits of our products in the broader marketplace. Convincing physicians to dedicate the time and energy necessary for adequate training is challenging, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts. If physicians are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. This may also result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could negatively affect our reputation and sales of our Closure system or ClosureRFS devices. We spend considerable time and money complying with federal, state and foreign regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such regulations, we could face substantial penalties. We are directly or indirectly through our customers, subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the states and foreign countries in which we conduct our business. The laws that directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate our business include, but are not limited to, the following: • the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which regulates the design, testing, manufacture, labeling, marketing, distribution and sale of prescription drugs and medical devices; • state food and drug laws; • the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; • the federal Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid Programs; • Medicare laws and regulations that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment, including the amount of such payment, and laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid; • the federal physician self-referral prohibition, commonly known as the Stark Law, which, in the absence of a statutory or regulatory exception, prohibits the referral of Medicare patients by a physician to an entity for the provision of designated healthcare services, if the physician or a member of the physician’s immediate family has a direct or indirect financial relationship, including an ownership interest in, or a compensation arrangement with, the entity and also prohibits that entity from submitting a bill to a federal payor for services rendered pursuant to a prohibited referral; 22 Table of Contents • state laws that prohibit the practice of medicine by non-physicians and fee-splitting arrangements between physicians and non-physicians, as well as state law equivalents to the Anti-Kickback Law and the Stark Law, which may not be limited to government reimbursed items; and • the Federal Trade Commission Act and similar laws regulating advertising and consumer protection. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or the other governmental regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If we are required to obtain permits or licenses under these laws that we do not already possess, we may become subject to substantial additional regulation or incur significant expense. Any penalties, damages, fines, or curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by applicable regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations and additional legal or regulatory change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. Product sales or introductions may be delayed or canceled as a result of the FDA’s regulatory process, which could cause our sales or profitability to decline. The process of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals and clearances to market a medical device from the FDA and similar regulatory authorities abroad can be costly and time consuming, and we cannot assure you that such approvals and clearances will be granted. Pursuant to FDA regulations, unless exempt, the FDA permits commercial distribution of a new medical device only after the device has received 510(k) clearance or is the subject of an approved premarket approval application. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated that the new product is substantially equivalent to other 510(k)-cleared products. The premarket approval application process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) process, and must be supported by extensive data, including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. Because we cannot assure you that any new products, or any product enhancements, that we develop will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancement may occur. We cannot assure you that the FDA will not require a new product or product enhancement go through the lengthy and expensive premarket approval application process. Delays in obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals may: • delay or eliminate commercialization of products we develop; • require us to perform costly procedures; • diminish any competitive advantages that we may attain; and • reduce our ability to collect revenues or royalties. Although we have obtained 510(k) clearance from the FDA to market our Closure system, we cannot assure you that the clearance of our Closure system will not be withdrawn or that we will not be required to obtain new clearances or approvals for modifications or improvements to our products. Modifications to our products may require new marketing clearances or approvals or require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until such clearance or approvals are obtained. Any modification to a 510(k) cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, approval of a premarket approval application. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer’s decision. We have made modifications to elements of our Closure system and RFS devices for which we have not sought additional 510(k) clearance. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are 23 Table of Contents required. If the FDA disagrees with us, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval. In addition, we could be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. Furthermore, our products could be subject to recall if the FDA determines, for any reason, that our products are not safe or effective. Delays in receipt or failure to receive clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could reduce our sales, profitability and future growth prospects. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or “off-label” uses. If we are incorrect in our belief that our promotional materials and training methods regarding physicians are conducted in compliance with regulations of the FDA and other applicable regulations, and the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, the FDA could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Some of our employees were previously employed at universities or other medical device companies. Although there are no claims currently pending against us, we may be subject to future claims that these employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of these former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research or sales personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent us from improving our products or selling our existing products, which would harm our business. Our business may be harmed by a natural disaster, terrorist attacks or other unanticipated problems. Our manufacturing and office facilities are located in a single building in San Jose, California. Despite precautions taken by us, a natural disaster such as fire or earthquake, a terrorist attack or other unanticipated problems at this building could interrupt our ability to manufacture our products or operate our business. These disasters or problems may also destroy our product inventories. Any prolonged or repeated disruption or inability to manufacture our products or operate our business could result in losses that exceed the amount of coverage provided by this insurance, and in such event could harm our business. Our future capital needs are uncertain; we may need to raise additional funds in the future and such funds may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investments, will be sufficient to meet our projected capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the revenues generated by sales of our products and licensing; • the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions; • the costs associated with expanding our manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution efforts; • the rate of progress and cost of our research and development activities; • the costs of obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory clearance of our products and products in development; and 24 Table of Contents • the cost of litigation and other legal actions. As a result of these factors, we may need to raise additional funds, and we cannot be certain that such funds will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. The cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads resulting from weak global market and economic conditions. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. Continued turbulence in the United States and international markets and economies may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to obtain external debt or equity financing to meet our liquidity needs. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our future products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to expand our operations, develop new products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. Concentration of ownership among our existing directors, executive officers and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our executive officers, directors and greater than 10% stockholders directly or indirectly beneficially own or control a significant portion of our outstanding shares of common stock. These executive officers, directors and significant stockholders, acting as a group, have substantial control over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. Some of these persons or entities may have interests different than our other stockholders. For example, these stockholders may delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders, and these persons or entities may pursue strategies that are different from the wishes of other investors. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. In addition to the effect that the concentration of ownership by our officers, directors and significant stockholders may have, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may enable our management to resist a change in control. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a change in the ownership of our company or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Such provisions include: • our board of directors is authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock; • advance notice requirements for stockholders to nominate individuals to serve on our board of directors or for stockholders to submit proposals that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • our board of directors is classified so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time, which may make it more difficult for a person who acquires control of a majority of our outstanding voting stock to replace our directors; • stockholder action by written consent is prohibited; • special meetings of our stockholders are permitted to be called only by a majority of our board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors or our president; • stockholders are not permitted to cumulate their votes for the election of directors; 25 Table of Contents • newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the authorized number of directors or vacancies on our board of directors are to be filled only by majority vote of the remaining directors, even though less than a quorum is then in office; • our board of directors is expressly authorized to modify, alter or repeal our bylaws; and • stockholders are permitted to amend our bylaws only upon receiving at least 75% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including delaying or impeding a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 