ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating To the Pending Merger Failure to complete the merger could lead to the inability of the Company to continue as a viable entity. Our current operations are not cashflow positive and our assets and capital have been eroded by significant losses in the last two years. If the merger do not occur, additional sources of capital would be required for us to generate positive cashflow and continue operations. These events have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a viable entity. Moreover, satisfaction or waiver of all conditions precedent to consummate the merger is a condition to closing under the exchange agreements with Taberna and the Amster Parties. If the merger does not occur, the closings under the exchange agreements will not occur, and we will be required to pay, in the aggregate under the two existing trust preferred securities agreements, approximately $4.8 million of interest as of January 30, 2009. We do not have the resources to make such required payments. In addition, if the merger agreement is terminated and the merger does not occur, it is expected that JWHHC (or Spinco as anticipated assignee of JWHHC’s rights thereunder prior to the spin-off) will exercise its right under the amended and restated loan and security agreement with us to demand repayment of all amounts owed to JWHHC (or Spinco) thereunder and, if we do not pay all amounts borrowed pursuant to the REIT loan facility, to exercise its right under the amended and restated loan and security agreement and the related securities account control agreement to foreclose upon all of the assets purchased by us with the proceeds of our borrowings under the REIT loan facility, which assets are held in a collateral account securing our obligations to JWHHC (or Spinco) under the REIT loan facility. As of February 28, 2009, we owed JWHHC $2.9 million in principal, including $2.3 million under the REIT loan facility and $600,000 under one of the two unsecured loan facilities provided for by the amended and restated loan and security agreement, and approximately $37,000 in accrued interest under the amended and restated loan and security agreement. In such event, we would likely not have sufficient assets or access to financing to, among other things, maintain our qualification as a REIT. We will incur substantial expenses and payments if the merger does not occur. The closing of the merger depends on the satisfaction of specified conditions. Some of these conditions are beyond our control. For example, the closing of the merger is conditioned on approval by our stockholders. If this approval is not received the merger cannot be completed even if all of the other conditions to the merger are satisfied or waived. If the merger is not completed, we will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the merger. In addition, we may also be subject to additional risks if the merger is not completed, including: • depending on the reasons for termination of the merger agreement, the requirement that we pay Walter a termination fee of $3 million; • substantial costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, must be paid regardless of whether the merger is completed; and • potential disruption to the businesses and distraction of our workforce and management team. 18 Table of Contents Failure to complete the merger could adversely impact the Company’s market price. If the merger is not completed for any reason, the price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the market price of our common stock reflects positive market assumptions that the spin-off and the merger will be completed and the related benefits will be realized. The NYSE Amex (formerly the American Stock Exchange) has notified us that we are not in compliance with its continued listing criteria. If we are delisted by the NYSE Amex, the price and liquidity of our stock will be negatively affected. As described under “Business — Developments in 2007 and 2008 — American Stock Exchange Notice,” we have received an extension from the NYSE Amex staff to June 30, 2009 to regain compliance with the continued listing standards of Section 1003(a)(iv) of the NYSE Amex Company Guide. If our securities are delisted from NYSE Amex, then we may trade on the Over-the-Counter-Bulletin Board, which is viewed by most investors as a less desirable and less liquid market place. However, we cannot assure you that, if our common stock is listed or quoted on such other exchange or system, the market for our common stock will be as liquid as it has been on the NYSE Amex. As a result, if we are delisted by NYSE Amex or we transfer our stock to another exchange or quotation system, the market price for our common stock may become more volatile than it has been historically. Delisting of our stock from NYSE Amex could make trading our stock more difficult for investors, leading to declines in share price. Delisting of our stock may also make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise additional capital. In connection with the merger, the Company and Spinco are submitting an additional listing application to the NYSE Amex to list the shares being issued in connection with the merger and expect the application to be approved pending the closing of the merger, however we cannot assure that such application will be approved. Risks Related to the Company’s Business Assuming the Consummation of the Pending Merger Sales of a substantial number of shares of the common stock of the Surviving Corporation following the merger may adversely affect its market price and the issuance of additional shares will dilute all other stockholdings. Sales or distributions of a substantial number of shares of the common stock of the Surviving Corporation in the public market or otherwise following the merger, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of its common stock. After the merger, all of the shares of the common stock of the Surviving Corporation will be eligible for immediate resale in the public market. Investment criteria of certain investment funds and other holders of the common stock of the Surviving Corporation may result in the immediate sale of its common stock after the merger to the extent such stock does not meet their criteria. In addition, to the extent that Walter’s common stockholders (who will own, in the aggregate approximately 98.5% of the Surviving Corporation’s common stock following the merger) assign the majority of Walter’s market value to its Natural Resources and Sloss segments, such investors may choose to sell the Surviving Corporation’s stock. Substantial selling of Surviving Corporation common stock, whether as a result of the merger or otherwise, could adversely affect the market price of its common stock. The Surviving Corporation may not realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from the merger. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on the ability of the Surviving Corporation to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating our businesses with those of Spinco. The Surviving Corporation’s success in realizing these synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of the businesses and operations of the Company and Spinco. Even if the companies are able to integrate their business operations successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities that they currently expect from this integration or that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not 19 Table of Contents be possible or may take longer than anticipated and the benefits from the merger may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the companies. A part of the Surviving Corporation’s growth strategy depends on the availability and willingness of third-party loan portfolio owners to outsource servicing of their loan portfolio to it and its ability to successfully integrate that business into the existing financing business. There can be no assurance that the Surviving Corporation will be able to implement that strategy successfully. We cannot predict the price range or volatility of the common stock of the Surviving Corporation after the merger. From time to time, the market price and volume of shares traded of companies in the sub-prime mortgage finance industry experience periods of significant volatility. Since 2007, the sub-prime mortgage finance markets have experienced historically significant volatility, which may continue after the effective time of the merger. Company-specific issues and developments generally in the sub-prime mortgage industry or the economy may cause this volatility. The market price of the common stock of the Surviving Corporation may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: • general economic, market and political conditions; • availability of debt and equity capital markets; • quarterly variations in results of operations or results of operations that could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and market price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; • press releases or publicity relating to the Surviving Corporation or its competitors or relating to trends in the Surviving Corporation’s markets; and • sales of common stock or other securities by insiders. In addition, broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as investor perception and the depth and liquidity of the market for the common stock of the Surviving Corporation, may adversely affect the trading price of its common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. There can be no assurance as to the price at which the common stock of the Surviving Corporation will trade after the distribution date. Until its common stock is fully distributed and an orderly market develops in its common stock, the price at which its common stock trades may fluctuate significantly and may be lower or higher than the price that would be expected for a fully distributed issue. If the spin-off does not constitute a tax-free spin-off or the merger does not constitute a tax-free reorganization under the Code, then one or more of Walter, the Surviving Corporation and Walter stockholders may be responsible for the payment of U.S. federal income taxes. The spin-off and merger are conditioned upon, among other things, Walter’s receipt of a ruling from the IRS to the effect that (among other things) the spin-off would be tax-free to Walter, Spinco and Walter stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Code. Although a private letter ruling from the IRS is generally binding upon the IRS, if the factual representations or assumptions made in the letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, then Walter and the Surviving Corporation will not be able to rely on the ruling. In addition, the IRS will not rule on whether a distribution satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code. Therefore, the spin-off and merger are also conditioned on Walter’s receipt of an opinion from its accountants as to the satisfaction of these required qualifying conditions for the application to the spin-off of Section 355 of the Code. Such tax opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts. Lastly, the spin-off and merger are conditioned, among other things, on Walter’s and Spinco’s receipt of an opinion from their counsel and the Company’s receipt of an opinion from its counsel, each to the 20 Table of Contents effect that the merger will be treated as a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of Section 368 of the Code. On February 17, 2009, the merger agreement was amended to eliminate Walter’s and Spinco’s right to waive the condition to closing relating to receipt by Walter of rulings from the IRS and an opinion from Walter’s accountants in respect of the tax-free nature of the spin-off and certain other federal income tax consequences of the spin-off and merger. These opinions will rely on, among other things, current law and certain representations and assumptions as to factual matters made by Walter, Spinco and the Company. Any change in applicable law or the failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true and complete in all material respects, could adversely affect the conclusions reached in these opinions. The opinions will not be binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS and the courts may not agree with the opinions. The historical consolidated financial information of JWHHC and Spinco may not be indicative of Spinco’s results as an independent company and may not be a reliable indicator of its historical or future results. Spinco and JWHHC are each currently a fully integrated part of Walter. Consequently, the financial information of JWHHC and Spinco provided to us does not include all of the expenses that would have been incurred by them had JWHHC and Spinco been separate, stand-alone entities. However, the historical consolidated financial statements include certain costs and expenses that have been allocated to JWHHC or Spinco from Walter. The historical and pro forma financial information of JWHHC or Spinco may not reflect what the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of them would have been had JWHHC and Spinco been operated as independent companies during the periods presented or be indicative of what the Surviving Corporation’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be in the future when it is operated as an independent company. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • JWHHC’s historical financial information reflects allocations for services historically provided by Walter, and it is expected that these allocations will be different from the costs that the Surviving Corporation will incur for these services in the future as a smaller independent company, including with respect to services provided by Walter under any transition services agreement and other commercial service agreements with JWHHC or Spinco. Walter expects that, in some instances, the costs incurred for these services as a smaller independent company will be higher than the share of total Walter expenses allocated to these businesses historically; • JWHHC’s historical financial information reflects related-party payables and income expense that will be eliminated prior to the transfer of the Financing business assets to Spinco or later as part of the spin-off; • JWHHC’s historical financial information does not reflect the increased costs associated with being an independent company, including changes that are expected in cost structure, personnel needs, financing and operations as a result of the transfer of the Financing business assets to Spinco or the spin-off of Spinco from Walter; and • The historical financial information of JWHHC includes JWH, which will not be a subsidiary of Spinco at the time of the spin-off. Walter has advised us that while adjustments based upon available information and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable have been made to reflect these factors, among others, in the historical financial information and in the pro forma financial information for JWHHC and Spinco provided to us, these assumptions may not prove to be accurate and, accordingly, the pro forma information should not be assumed to be indicative of what the financial condition or results of operations actually would have been if JWHHC and Spinco had been operated as independent companies nor to be a reliable indicator of what the financial condition or results of operations of the Surviving Corporation actually may be in the future. 21 Table of Contents Because Walter’s Financing business has not operated on an independent basis, the future business prospects of the Surviving Corporation could suffer as a result of the separation of Spinco from Walter. At the time of the merger, Spinco will consist of Walter’s mortgage financing business and certain insurance businesses, all of which were part of the financing segment of Walter. Until the spin-off, Walter will own all of the outstanding Spinco interests. The operation of Spinco separate from Walter may place significant demands on the Surviving Corporation’s management, operational and technical resources. The future performance of the Surviving Corporation will depend on its ability to function as an independent company comprised of Spinco and the Company’s businesses and on its ability to finance and manage expanding operations and to adapt its information systems to changes in its business. Spinco and the Walter Financing business each rely on, and following the merger the Surviving Corporation will rely on, contractual arrangements that require Walter and its affiliates to provide or procure certain critical transitional services and shared arrangements to it such as: • certain tax, legal and accounting services; • certain human resources services, including benefit plan administration; • information technology and communications systems; and • insurance. We cannot assure you that that after the termination of these arrangements, the Surviving Corporation will be able to provide these services for itself in a cost-effective manner or replace these services and arrangements in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including service levels and cost, as favorable as those the Walter Financing business has received from Walter and its affiliates. Failure of the Surviving Corporation to provide these services for itself or obtain these services from Walter or another third party on favorable terms or at all could have a material adverse effect on the Surviving Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stockholders will have significantly reduced ownership and voting interest after the merger. After the merger’s completion, the Company’s stockholders are expected to own 1.5% of the shares of common stock of the Surviving Corporation outstanding or reserved for issuance in settlement of restricted stock units of the Surviving Corporation issued to Spinco option holders in the merger (after giving effect to the shares being issued to the Amster Parties under the Amster Exchange Agreement), with the Amster Parties owning approximately 0.66% and the other Company stockholders owning approximately 0.84%. Consequently our stockholders, as a group, will be able to exercise materially less influence over the management and policies of the Surviving Corporation than they presently exercise over the management and policies of the Company. Governmental agencies may delay or impose conditions on approval of the merger, which may diminish the anticipated benefits of the merger. Completion of the spin-off and merger is conditioned upon the receipt of all material governmental consents, approvals, orders and authorizations, including the receipt by Walter of a ruling from the IRS regarding the tax-free treatment of the spin-off. On February 17, 2009, the merger agreement was amended to eliminate Walter’s and Spinco’s right to waive the condition to closing relating to receipt by Walter of rulings from the IRS and an opinion from Walter’s accountants in respect of the tax-free nature of the spin-off and certain other federal income tax consequences of the spin-off and merger. While Walter and the Company intend to pursue vigorously any and all required governmental approvals and do not know of any reason why such necessary approvals would not be obtained in a timely manner, the requirement to receive these approvals before the spin-off and merger could delay the completion of the spin-off and merger, possibly for a significant period of time after the Company’s stockholders have approved the proposals required to effectuate the merger at the special meeting. In addition, these governmental agencies may attempt to condition their approval of the merger on the imposition of conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the Surviving Corporation’s operating results or the value of the Surviving Corporation common stock after the merger is 22 Table of Contents completed. Any delay in the completion of the merger could diminish the anticipated benefits of the merger or result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the transaction. Any uncertainty over the ability of the companies to complete the merger could make it more difficult for the Company, JWHHC and Spinco to retain key employees or to pursue business strategies. In addition, until the merger is completed, the attention of the Company, JWHHC and Spinco management may be diverted from ongoing business concerns and regular business responsibilities to the extent management is focused on matters relating to the transaction, such as obtaining governmental approvals. The IRS may challenge the Surviving Corporation’s status as a REIT, and a court could sustain any such challenge. The Surviving Corporation’s qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon its ability to meet on a continuing basis, through actual annual operating results, certain qualification tests set forth in the federal tax laws. No assurance can be given that the actual results of the Surviving Corporation’s operations for any particular taxable year will satisfy such requirements. If the Surviving Corporation fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, subject to certain relief provisions, the Surviving Corporation will be subject to tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. This would significantly reduce both the Surviving Corporation’s cash available for distribution to its stockholders and the Surviving Corporation’s earnings. If the Surviving Corporation fails to qualify as a REIT, it will not be required to make any distributions to stockholders, and any distributions that are made will not be deductible. Moreover, all distributions to stockholders would be taxable as dividends to the extent of the Surviving Corporation’s current and accumulated earnings and profits (as computed for U.S. federal income tax purposes), whether or not attributable to capital gains. The Surviving Corporation also will generally be ineligible to qualify as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. The board of directors of the Surviving Corporation will determine the Surviving Corporation’s major policies and operations, which increases the uncertainties faced by stockholders of the Surviving Corporation. The board of directors of the Surviving Corporation will determine our major policies, including policies regarding REIT qualification and status, financing, growth, debt capitalization, redemptions and distributions. The board of directors of the Surviving Corporation may amend or revise these and other policies, and may revoke our REIT status, without a vote of the stockholders. Our board of directors’ broad discretion in setting policies and your inability to exert control over those policies increases the uncertainty and risks you face. The integration of the Company and Spinco may present significant challenges to the management of the Surviving Corporation which could cause the management to fail to respond effectively to competition facing the business of the Surviving Corporation. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of separating Spinco from Walter and integrating the businesses of the Company and Spinco. These difficulties include: • the challenge of separating Spinco from Walter and then integrating the Company’s business with Spinco’s business while carrying on the ongoing operations of each business; • the necessity of coordinating geographically separate organizations; • the ability to successfully integrate the Company’s information technology systems with Spinco’s information technology systems; • the challenge of integrating the business cultures of each company, which may prove to be incompatible; and • the need to retain key officers and personnel of Spinco and the Company. The process of separating and integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the businesses of Spinco or the Company. Members of the senior management of the 23 Table of Contents Surviving Corporation that will be appointed after the merger may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage the business affairs of the Surviving Corporation. One potential consequence of such distractions could be the failure of management to respond to changes in the economy or credit quality of the managed assets of the Surviving Corporation. If the senior management of the Surviving Corporation is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, the Surviving Corporation’s business could suffer. The Surviving Corporation is exposed to increased risks of delinquencies, defaults and losses on mortgages and loans associated with the generally lower credit grade of its borrowers. Walter’s financing business specializes in servicing mortgage notes and loans (which we refer to as “mortgage assets”) to credit-impaired borrowers who were generally unable to qualify for loans from conventional mortgage sources due to loan size, credit characteristics or other requirements. The Company’s mortgage portfolio basically consists of prime mortgage loans. The Surviving Corporation’s total portfolio will consist of mortgage notes with a 99.7% concentration in credit-impaired customers. Therefore, the Surviving Corporation will be subject to various risks associated with the lower credit customers that it will succeed to from Spinco, including, but not limited to, the risk that these borrowers will not pay the principal and finance charges or interest when due, and that the value received from the sale of the borrower’s home in a repossession will not be sufficient to repay the borrower’s obligation to the Surviving Corporation. Delinquencies and defaults cause reductions in the interest income and net income of the Surviving Corporation. If delinquency rates and losses are greater than expected: • the fair market value of the mortgage assets pledged as collateral for securitized borrowings, and the value of the Surviving Corporation’s ownership interest in the securitizations it will succeed to from Spinco, may decline; or • the allowances that are established for losses on mortgage assets may be insufficient, which could depress the Surviving Corporation’s business, financial condition, liquidity and net income. During economic slowdowns or recessions, mortgage and loan delinquencies and defaults generally increase. In addition, significant declines in market values of residences securing mortgages and loans reduce homeowners’ equity in their homes. The limited borrowing power of potential customers increases the likelihood of delinquencies, defaults and credit losses on foreclosure. Many of the Surviving Corporation’s borrowers will have limited access to consumer financing for a variety of reasons, including a relatively high level of debt service, lower credit scores, higher loan-to-value ratios of the mortgage assets, past credit write-offs, outstanding judgments or prior bankruptcies. As a result, the actual rate of delinquencies, repossessions and credit losses on the Surviving Corporation’s loans may often be higher under adverse economic conditions than those experienced in the mortgage loan industry in general. A portion of the Walter financing business mortgage portfolio is comprised of adjustable rate mortgage loans that require payment adjustments during the term of the loan. This adjustment in payment may result in increased payment defaults by borrowers who are unprepared or unable to meet higher payment requirements, resulting in higher losses to the Surviving Corporation. In addition, the rate of delinquencies may be higher after natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. After a default by a borrower, the Surviving Corporation will evaluate the cost effectiveness of repossessing the property. Such default may cause it to charge its allowances for credit losses on its loan portfolio. Any material decline in real estate values increases the loan-to-value ratios of its loans and the loans backing the Surviving Corporation’s mortgage related securities. This weakens collateral values and the amount of its recoveries, if any, obtained upon repossessions. If the Surviving Corporation must take losses on a mortgage or loan backing its mortgage related securities or loans that exceed its allowances, its financial condition, net income and cash flows could suffer. 24 Table of Contents The Surviving Corporation may have substantial additional liability for U.S. federal income tax allegedly owed by Walter or Spinco for periods prior to the spin-off. Each member of a consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes is severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group for any year in which it is a member of the group at any time during such year. Each member of the Walter controlled group, which currently includes Walter, JWHHC, Spinco and Walter’s other subsidiaries, is also jointly and severally liable for pension and benefit funding and termination liabilities of other group members, as well as certain benefit plan taxes. Accordingly, when the Surviving Corporation succeeds to Spinco’s liabilities, it could be liable under such provisions in the event any such liability is incurred, and not discharged, by any other member of the Walter consolidated or controlled group for any period during which Spinco was included in the Walter consolidated or controlled group. Walter has advised us that the IRS has issued a Notice of Proposed Deficiency assessing tax deficiencies in the amount of $82.2 million for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2000, December 31, 2000 and December 31, 2001 with respect to the Walter consolidated group, which includes Spinco. The proposed adjustments relate primarily to its method of recognizing revenue on the sale of homes and recognizing revenue on the installment note receivables. The items at issue relate primarily to the timing of revenue recognition, and, consequently, should the IRS prevail on its positions, Walter’s financial exposure is generally limited to interest and penalties, although it is possible that some portion of the offsetting deductions may be derived by Spinco after the spin-off and could result in a permanent difference to Walter for a portion of the tax liability. In addition, a controversy exists with regard to federal income taxes allegedly owed by the Walter consolidated group for fiscal years 1980 through 1994. Walter estimates that the amount of tax presently claimed by the IRS is approximately $34.0 million for issues currently in dispute in the bankruptcy court. Walter believes that, should the IRS prevail on any such issues, Walter’s financial exposure will be generally limited to interest and possible penalties and the amount of tax claimed will be offset by deductions in later years, although it is possible that some portion of the offsetting deductions may be derived by Spinco after the spin-off and could result in a permanent difference to Walter for a portion of the tax liability. While Walter believes that its tax filing positions have substantial merit and it intends to defend any tax claims asserted, there can be no assurance that the IRS or a federal court will uphold the tax filing positions taken by Walter. Moreover, although Walter believes that it has sufficient accruals to address any such tax claims, including related interest and penalties, an adverse ruling, judgment or court order could impose significant financial liabilities in excess of such accruals, which could have an adverse effect on Walter’s financial condition and results of operations and could require a significant cash payment. If Walter was unable to satisfy any such liabilities, the IRS could require the Surviving Corporation to satisfy them. The Surviving Corporation may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to Walter or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from Walter. The Surviving Corporation (as successor to Spinco) will be party to certain agreements with Walter, including a tax separation agreement and a joint litigation agreement. Under the terms of the tax separation agreement, to the extent that Walter or the Surviving Corporation takes any action that would be inconsistent with the treatment of the spin-off of Spinco from Walter as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Code, then any tax resulting from such actions will be attributable to the acting company and will result in indemnification obligations that could be significant. Under the terms of the joint litigation agreement, Walter will indemnify the Surviving Corporation (as successor to Spinco) for liabilities arising from businesses and operations not included in Spinco at the time of the spin-off, and the Surviving Corporation (as successor to Spinco) will indemnify Walter for liabilities arising from businesses and operations that are included in Spinco at the time of the spin-off. The ability to satisfy these indemnities if called upon to do so will depend upon the future financial strength of each of these companies. We cannot determine whether the Surviving Corporation will be required to indemnify Walter for any substantial obligations after the spin-off. If Walter is required to indemnify the Surviving Corporation for any substantial obligations, Walter may not have the ability to satisfy those obligations. If Walter is unable to satisfy its obligations under its indemnity, the Surviving Corporation may be required to satisfy those obligations. 25 Table of Contents The mortgage-backed and asset-backed debt securities of the Surviving Corporation have over-collateralization and credit enhancement requirements, which, if not satisfied, may decrease its cash flow and net income. The Surviving Corporation’s securitizations have over-collateralization requirements that may result in a decrease in the value of its ownership interests in its securitizations and have a negative impact on its cash flow. Generally, if the mortgage assets of a securitization trust perform poorly, the over-collateralization feature of the securitization directs excess cash flow from the securitized pool of mortgage assets to the senior debt securities of the trust. During any period in which this happens the Surviving Corporation may not receive any cash distributions from such mortgage trust. In addition, the pool of mortgage assets of a securitization must meet certain performance tests based on delinquency levels, losses and other criteria in order for the Surviving Corporation to receive excess cash flow. If these performance tests, or significant terms regarding the calculation of such tests, are not satisfied, the Surviving Corporation would not be permitted to receive excess cash flow from the securitizations. Material variations in the rate or timing of its receipt of cash distributions from these mortgage assets may adversely affect net income and may affect its overall financial condition. In addition, if cash flow is substantially redistributed to satisfy over-collateralization and credit enhancement requirements, the Surviving Corporation may be unable to meet annual distribution requirements applicable to REITs, which may result in material negative tax consequences to the Surviving Corporation. The operations of the Surviving Corporation may depend on the availability of additional financing and it will not be able to obtain financing from Walter after the merger. Following the merger, the Surviving Corporation expects to have adequate liquidity to support the operation and development of its business. In the future, however, it may require additional financing for liquidity, capital requirements and growth initiatives. After the merger, Walter will not provide funds to the Surviving Corporation. Accordingly, the Surviving Corporation may depend on its ability to generate cash flow from operations and to borrow funds and issue securities in the capital markets to maintain and expand its business. It may need to incur debt on terms and at interest rates that may not be as favorable as those historically enjoyed by Walter. Any inability by the Surviving Corporation to obtain financing in the future on favorable terms could have a negative effect on its results of operations and financial condition. Economic conditions in Texas, North Carolina, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida may have a material impact on the Surviving Corporation’s profitability because it will conduct a significant portion of its business in these markets. The mortgage assets of the Walter Financing business currently are, and those of the Surviving Corporation will be, concentrated in the Texas, North Carolina, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida markets. In the past, rates of loss and delinquency on mortgage assets have increased from time to time, driven primarily by weaker economic conditions in these markets. Furthermore, precarious economic and budget situations at the state government level may hinder the ability of customers to repay their obligations in areas in which the Surviving Corporation will conduct the majority of its business. The concentration of mortgage assets in such markets may have a negative impact on the Surviving Corporation’s operating results. Natural disasters and adverse weather conditions could disrupt the Surviving Corporation’s business and adversely affect its results of operations. The climates of many of the states in which the Surviving Corporation will operate, including Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida and Texas, where it will have some of its larger operations, present increased risks of natural disaster and adverse weather. Natural disasters or adverse weather in the areas in which it will conduct its business, or in nearby areas, have in the past, and may in the future, lead to significant insurance claims, cause increases in delinquencies and defaults in its mortgage portfolio and weaken the demand for homes that it may have to repossess in affected areas, which could adversely affect its results. In addition, the rate of delinquencies may be higher after natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. The occurrence of large loss events due to natural disasters or adverse weather could reduce the insurance coverage available to the Surviving Corporation, increase the cost of its insurance premiums and weaken the financial condition of its insurers, thereby limiting its ability to mitigate any future losses it may incur from such events. Moreover, 26 Table of Contents severe flooding, wind and water damage, forced evacuations, contamination, gas leaks, fire and environmental and other damage caused by natural disasters or adverse weather could lead to a general economic downturn, including increased prices for oil, gas and energy, loss of jobs, regional disruptions in travel, transportation and tourism and a decline in real-estate related investments, especially in the areas most directly damaged by the disaster or storm. The Surviving Corporation may be prevented from taking certain corporate actions following the merger in order to avoid significant tax-related liabilities. The tax separation agreement will preclude Spinco (and the Surviving Corporation as successor to Spinco) from engaging in certain actions following the spin-off unless it first obtains either a tax opinion acceptable to Walter or an IRS ruling to the effect that such transactions will not result in additional taxes. The tax separation agreement also will require the Surviving Corporation to indemnify Walter for any resulting taxes regardless of whether the Surviving Corporation first obtains such opinion or ruling. As a result of these restrictions, the Surviving Corporation may be unable to engage in strategic or capital raising transactions that holders of Surviving Corporation common stock might consider favorable, or to structure potential transactions in the manner most favorable to the Surviving Corporation. The Surviving Corporation will be subject to a number of federal, local and state laws and regulations that may prohibit or restrict the Surviving Corporation’s mortgage financing or servicing in some regions or areas. The Surviving Corporation will be subject to a number of federal, state and local laws that affect mortgage financing and servicing. There have been an increasing number of “anti-predatory” lending and consumer protection laws that impose restrictions on mortgage loans, including the amount of fees, interest or annual percentage rates that may be charged. As a result of current market conditions, the U.S. Congress has announced that it will be considering new legislation in the mortgage sector. To the extent that the enactment of new laws impose broad restrictions on financing and servicing, the Surviving Corporation may be subject to the imposition of requirements that negatively impact sales, costs and profitability or it may be prohibited or restricted from operating in certain regions or areas which could negatively impact future revenue and earnings. As the Surviving Corporation builds its information technology infrastructure and transitions Spinco’s data to its own systems, it could experience temporary business interruptions and incur substantial additional costs. The Surviving Corporation will install and implement information technology infrastructure to support its business functions, including accounting and reporting, customer service and distribution. It anticipates that this will involve significant costs. The Surviving Corporation may incur temporary interruptions in business operations if Spinco data cannot transition effectively from Walter’s existing technology infrastructure (which covers hardware, applications, network, telephony, databases, backup and recovery solutions), as well as the people and processes that support them. The Surviving Corporation may not be successful in implementing its new technology infrastructure and transitioning the data of Spinco, and it may incur substantially higher costs for implementation than currently anticipated. Its failure to avoid operational interruptions as it implements the new infrastructure and transitions data, or its failure to implement the new infrastructure and transition data successfully, could disrupt its business and have a material adverse effect on its profitability. In addition, technology service failures could have adverse regulatory and business consequences. Businesses the Surviving Corporation will acquire may not perform as expected. Servicing businesses the Surviving Corporation may acquire in the future may not perform as expected. Acquired businesses may perform below expectations for various reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes that affect the areas in which the business specializes and general economic factors that affect a business in a direct way. Any of these factors could impair the Surviving Corporation’s results of operations. 27 Table of Contents You may not receive the level of dividends provided for in the dividend policy the Surviving Corporation’s board of directors will adopt upon the closing of the merger or any dividends at all. The board of directors of the Surviving Corporation will adopt a dividend policy, effective upon the closing of the merger, which reflects an intention to distribute to the Surviving Corporation stockholders an amount sufficient to maintain the Surviving Corporation’s status as a REIT. The board of directors of the Surviving Corporation may, in its discretion, amend or repeal this dividend policy. The Surviving Corporation’s initial dividend policy will be based upon Walter’s and the Company’s current assessment of the Surviving Corporation’s business and the environment in which it will operate, and that assessment could change in the future. In addition, future dividends with respect to shares of the Surviving Corporation common stock, if any, will depend on, among other things, the Surviving Corporation’s cash flows, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, provisions of applicable law and other factors that the Surviving Corporation’s board of directors may deem relevant. The Surviving Corporation’s board of directors may decrease the level of dividends provided for in the dividend policy or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. We cannot assure you that the Surviving Corporation will generate sufficient cash from continuing operations in the future, or have sufficient legally available funds to pay dividends on its common stock in accordance with the dividend policy adopted by the Surviving Corporation’s board of directors. The reduction or elimination of dividends may negatively affect the market price of the Surviving Corporation’s common stock. The Surviving Corporation’s success will depend, in part, on its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The Surviving Corporation’s success will depend, in part, on its ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management personnel. Although we (i) expect Mark O’Brien, Spinco’s and JWHHC’s current Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and a director of Walter, to serve as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Surviving Corporation, Charles E. Cauthen, currently President of WMC, to serve as the Surviving Corporation’s President and Chief Operating Officer and Kimberly Perez, currently Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of WMC, to serve as Chief Financial Officer of the Surviving Corporation, and (ii) have entered into amendments to existing employment agreements with each of John A. Burchett, our current Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Irma N. Tavares, our current Chief Operating Officer, Managing Director and a director, to serve in senior management positions with the Surviving Corporation or one or more of its subsidiaries, we cannot assure you that the Surviving Corporation will be able to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel necessary for its business. Particularly, if the Surviving Corporation is unable to retain key employees of Spinco, it may experience substantial disruption in these businesses. The loss of key management personnel or other key employees or the Surviving Corporation’s inability to attract such personnel may adversely affect its ability to manage its overall operations and successfully implement its business strategy. Risks Related to Our Business Mortgage-related assets are subject to risks, including borrower defaults or bankruptcies, special hazard losses, declines in real estate values, delinquencies and fraud. During the time we hold mortgage related assets we are subject to the risks on the underlying mortgage loans from borrower defaults and bankruptcies and from special hazard losses, such as those occurring from earthquakes or floods that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. If a default occurs on any mortgage loan we hold, or on any mortgage loan collateralizing mortgage-backed securities we own, we may bear the risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the mortgaged property plus any payments from any insurer or guarantor, and the amount owing on the mortgage loan. Defaults on mortgage loans historically coincide with declines in real estate values, which are difficult to anticipate and may be dependent on local economic conditions. Increased exposure to losses on mortgage loans can reduce the value of our investments. Further, mortgage loans in default are generally not eligible collateral under our usual borrowing facilities and may have to be funded by us until liquidated. 28 Table of Contents In addition, if borrowers are delinquent in making payments on the mortgage loans underlying our mortgage-related assets, or if the mortgage loans are unenforceable due to fraud or otherwise, we might not be able to recoup the entire investment in such assets. Nationwide declines in housing prices have already occurred during 2007 and continued into 2008 and appear to be continuing into 2009. In addition, delinquencies on the mortgage loans that collateralize our Subordinate MBS have increased during 2007 and increased into 2008 and appear to be increasing into 2009. These negative trends could further reduce the value of our securities and our interest income and cashflow from these securities. Deteriorating debt and secondary mortgage market conditions have had and may continue to have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. Beginning in the second quarter of 2007 the mortgage industry and the residential housing market was adversely affected as home prices declined and delinquencies increased, particularly in the sub-prime mortgage industry. The difficulty that arose as a result of this has spread across various mortgage sectors, including the market in which we operate. We have significant financing needs that we have historically met through the capital markets, including the debt and secondary mortgage markets. These markets are currently experiencing unprecedented disruptions, which have had and continue to have an adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition, particularly in the short term. Current conditions in the debt markets include reduced liquidity and increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants. These conditions, which increase the cost and reduce the availability of debt, may continue or worsen in the future. In August 2007, we entered into a Master Repurchase Agreement with Ramius, through which we obtained adequate committed facilities which has assisted us in mitigating the impact of the debt market disruptions. However, the Master Repurchase Agreement expired on August 9, 2008, and there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain financing in the future should we need it. The secondary mortgage markets are also currently experiencing unprecedented disruptions resulting from reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities. These conditions may continue or worsen in the future and have had, and continue to have, an adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. Our current financial condition and negative cashflows from operations have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Due to unprecedented turmoil in the mortgage and capital markets during 2007 and 2008, we incurred a significant loss of liquidity over a short period of time. We experienced a net loss of approximately $15.1 million and $80 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively, and our current operations are not cashflow positive. While we have sufficient cash to continue operations up to June 30, 2009, we do not have sufficient capital to generate positive cashflow and continue operations beyond mid 2009. These events have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may be unable to renew our borrowings at favorable rates or maintain longer-term financing, which may affect our profitability. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends not only on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms, but also on our ability to renew or replace on a continuous basis our maturing short-term borrowings or to refinance such borrowings with longer-term financings. If we are not able to renew or replace maturing borrowings, or obtain longer-term financing, we would have to sell some or all of our assets, possibly under adverse market conditions. In addition, the failure to renew or replace borrowings that mature, or obtain longer-term financing, may require us to terminate hedge positions, which could result in further losses. Any number of these factors in combination may cause difficulties for us, including a possible liquidation of a major portion of our portfolio at possibly disadvantageous prices with consequent losses, which could render us insolvent. 29 Table of Contents In particular, on August 10, 2007, we entered into a Master Repurchase Agreement with Ramius with respect to our portfolio of subordinate mortgage-backed securities. The initial purchase price of the securities in the repurchase transaction was $80,932,928. The Master Repurchase Agreement expired on August 9, 2008, at which time we were required to repay the outstanding principal through cash or in-kind securities or surrender the portfolio to the lender without recourse. We surrendered the portfolio on August 9, 2008. Our profitability depends on the availability and prices of mortgage assets that meet our investment criteria. The availability of mortgage assets that meet our criteria depends on, among other things, the size and level of activity in the real estate lending markets. The size and level of activity in these markets, in turn, depends on the level of interest rates, regional and national economic conditions, appreciation or decline in property values and the general regulatory and tax environment as it relates to mortgage lending. In addition, we expect to compete for these investments with other REITs, investment banking firms, savings banks, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders and other entities that purchase mortgage-related assets, many of which have greater financial resources than we do. If we cannot obtain sufficient mortgage loans or mortgage securities that meet our criteria, at favorable yields, our business will be adversely affected. We are subject to various obligations related to our use of, and dependence on, debt. If we violate covenants in any debt agreements, we could be required to repay all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity at a time when we might be unable to arrange financing for such repayment on attractive terms, if at all. Violations of certain debt covenants may result in our being unable to borrow unused amounts under a line of credit, even if repayment of some or all borrowings is not required. Our use of repurchase agreements to borrow funds may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or they file for bankruptcy. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the Bankruptcy Code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the Repurchase Agreements without delay in the event that we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of Repurchase Agreements under the Bankruptcy Code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that a lender files for bankruptcy. Thus, our use of Repurchase Agreements will expose our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either a lender or us. We may engage in hedging transactions, which can limit our gains and increase exposure to losses. We may enter into hedging transactions to protect us from the effects of interest rate fluctuations on floating rate debt and also to protect our portfolio of mortgage assets from interest rate and prepayment rate fluctuations. Our hedging transactions may include entering into interest rate swap agreements or interest rate cap or floor agreements, purchasing or selling futures contracts, purchasing put and call options on securities or securities underlying futures contracts, or entering into forward rate agreements. There are no assurances that our hedging activities will have the desired impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our net income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control. Interest rate fluctuations can adversely affect our income. The relationship between short-term and longer-term interest rates is often referred to as the “yield curve.” Variances in the yield curve may reduce our net income. Short-term interest rates are ordinarily lower than longer-term interest rates. If short-term interest rates rise disproportionately relative to longer-term interest rates (a flattening of the yield curve) or short-term interest rates exceed longer-term interest rates (a yield curve inversion), our borrowing costs may increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on our assets. 30 Table of Contents Because our assets generally bear interest based on longer-term rates than our borrowings, a flattening or inversion of the yield curve would tend to decrease our net income. Additionally, the spread between the yields of the new investments and available borrowing rates may decline, which would likely decrease our net income. The loss of any of our executive officers could adversely affect our operating performance. Our operations and financial performance depend heavily upon the efforts of our executive and investment personnel. We cannot give assurances that these executive officers can be retained or replaced with equally skilled and experienced professionals. The loss of any one of these individuals could have an adverse effect upon our business and results of operations at least for a short time. Further reductions in our workforce could adversely affect our operating performance and/or our ability to generate and issue timely financial information. Primarily as a result of the January 2007 sale of assets of our primary operating subsidiary, and due to attrition, our workforce has been reduced to approximately 16 employees. A further loss of employees within a relatively short time period, prior to the pending merger, together with our inability to replace these employees with comparably skilled employees within a reasonable timeframe, could adversely affect our operations and/or we could experience delays in generating and issuing financial information. We may hold title to real property, which could cause us to incur costly liabilities. We may be forced to foreclose on a defaulted mortgage loan in order to recoup part of our investment, which means we might hold title to the underlying property until we are able to arrange for resale and will therefore be subject to the liabilities of property owners. For example, we may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances. These costs may be significant and may exceed the value of the property. In addition, current laws may materially limit our ability to resell foreclosed properties, and future laws, or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies of existing requirements, may increase our exposure to liability. Further, foreclosed property is not financed and may require considerable amounts of capital before sold, thereby reducing our opportunities for alternate investments that could produce greater amounts of income. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to safeguard the security and privacy of the personal financial information of borrowers to which we have access. In connection with our loan file reviews and other activities with respect to mortgage loans in our portfolio, we have access to the personal non-public financial information of the borrowers. In addition, in operating an Internet exchange for trading mortgage loans, HT sometimes has access to borrowers’ personal non-public financial information, which it may provide to potential third party investors in the mortgage loans. This personal non-public financial information is highly sensitive and confidential, and if a third party were to misappropriate this information, we potentially could be subject to both private and public legal actions. Although we have policies and procedures designed to safeguard confidential information, we cannot give complete assurances that these policies and safeguards are sufficient to prevent the misappropriation of confidential information or that our policies and safeguards will be deemed compliant with any existing Federal or state laws or regulations governing privacy, or with those laws or regulations that may be adopted in the future. Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT and Our Investment Company Act Exemption If we do not maintain our status as a REIT, we will be subject to tax as a regular corporation and face substantial tax liability. We believe that we currently qualify, and expect to continue to qualify, as a REIT under the Code. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations exist. Even a technical or inadvertent 31 Table of Contents mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Furthermore, new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then: • we would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means we would be unable to deduct distributions made to stockholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to Federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • our tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders; and • unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be unable to qualify as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification, and our cash available for distribution to stockholders would be reduced for each of the years during which we did not qualify as a REIT. If we fail to comply with rules governing our ownership interests in “taxable REIT subsidiaries,” we will lose our REIT qualification. On January 1, 2001, the REIT Modernization Act became effective. Among other things, it allows REITs, subject to certain limitations, to own, directly or indirectly, up to 100% of the stock of a “taxable REIT subsidiary” that can engage in businesses previously prohibited to a REIT. In particular, the Act permitted us to restructure our operating subsidiaries as taxable REIT subsidiaries. As a result, for periods ending after June 30, 2002, through December 31, 2008, the financial statements of certain subsidiaries were consolidated with Hanover Capital Mortgage Holding Inc.’s financial statements, and it is intended that we will continue to do so. However, the taxable REIT subsidiary provisions are complex and impose several conditions on the use of taxable REIT subsidiaries, which are generally designed to ensure that taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. Further, no more than 20% of the fair market value of a REIT’s assets may consist of securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries, and no more than 25% of the fair market value of a REIT’s assets may consist of non-qualifying assets, including securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries and other taxable subsidiaries. In addition, the REIT Modernization Act legislation provides that a REIT may not own more than 10% of the voting power or value of a taxable subsidiary that is not treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. If our investments in our subsidiaries do not comply with these rules, we would fail to qualify as a REIT and we would be taxed as a regular corporation. Furthermore, certain transactions between us and a taxable REIT subsidiary that are not conducted on an arm’s length basis would be subject to a tax equal to 100% of the amount of deviance from an arm’s length standard. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Code may substantially limit our ability to hedge mortgage assets and related borrowings by requiring us to limit our income in each year from qualified hedges, together with any other income not generated from qualified real estate assets, to no more than 25% of our gross income. In addition, we must limit our aggregate income from nonqualified hedging transactions, from our provision of services and from other non-qualifying sources to no more than 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we may have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques. This could result in greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to incur. If we violate the 25% or 5% limitations, we may have to pay a penalty tax equal to the amount of income in excess of those limitations, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our profitability. If we fail to observe these limitations, unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect, we could lose our REIT status for Federal income tax purposes. The fair market value of a hedging instrument will not be counted as a qualified asset for purposes of satisfying the requirement that, at the close of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the total value of our assets be represented by real estate and other qualified assets. 32 Table of Contents REIT requirements may force us to forgo or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the fair market value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer and no more than 20% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. Our efforts to comply with the rules might force us to pass up opportunities to acquire otherwise attractive investments. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we may be able to correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter in order to avoid losing our REIT status and suffer adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow or liquidate assets to make distributions to stockholders. As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) to our stockholders. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes, or our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds, sell a portion of our mortgage securities at disadvantageous prices or find another alternative source of funds in order to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. Regulation as an investment company could materially and adversely affect our business; efforts to avoid regulation as an investment company could limit our operations. We intend to conduct our business in a manner that allows us to avoid being regulated as an investment company under the 40 Act. Investment company regulations, if they were deemed applicable to us, would prevent us from conducting our business as described in this report by, among other things, limiting our ability to use borrowings. The 40 Act exempts entities that are primarily engaged in purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. Under the SEC’s current interpretation, in order to qualify for this exemption we must maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in qualifying real estate interests. However, mortgage-backed securities that do not represent all of the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgages may be treated as securities separate from the underlying mortgage loans and, thus, may not be counted towards our satisfaction of the 55% requirement. Generally investments in the subordinated tranches of securitized loan pools do not constitute “qualifying real estate interests” unless certain qualifying abilities to govern the control of any foreclosures are in place. Our ownership of these mortgage-backed securities, therefore, may be limited to the extent that servicers of the loans in the pools grant such abilities to us. If the SEC changes its position on the interpretations of the exemption, we could be required to sell assets under potentially adverse market conditions in order to meet the new requirements and also have to purchase lower-yielding assets to comply with the 40 Act. We may be unable to maintain a sufficient amount of Agency MBS to remain exempt under the 40 Act, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not have enough funds or be able to obtain financing that would allow us to own a sufficient amount of Agency MBS or mortgage loans to maintain compliance with the 40 Act. If we are unable to maintain compliance with the 40 Act, we could, among other things, change the manner in which we conduct our 33 Table of Contents operations, or register as an investment company under the 40 Act, either of which could have a material adverse affect on our operations, our governance costs and the market price for our common stock. Risks Related to Our Corporate Organization and Structure Our charter limits ownership of our capital stock and attempts to acquire our capital stock. To facilitate maintenance of our REIT qualification and for other strategic reasons, our charter prohibits direct or constructive ownership by any person of more than 7.5% (except in the case of John A. Burchett, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, who can acquire up to 20%) in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. Our charter’s constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 7.5% of the outstanding stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of 7.5% of the outstanding stock, and thus be subject to our charter’s ownership limit. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our capital stock in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of the Board of Directors will be void, and could result in the shares being transferred by operation of law to a charitable trust. Provisions of our charter which inhibit changes in control could prevent stockholders from obtaining a premium price for our common stock. Provisions of our charter may delay or prevent a change in control of the company or other transactions that could provide stockholders with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock or that might otherwise be in the best interests of the stockholders. These include a staggered board of directors, our share ownership limit described above and our stockholders’ rights plan. Our Board of Directors could adopt the limitations available under Maryland law on changes in control that could prevent transactions in the best interests of stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law applicable to us prohibit “business combinations”, including certain issuances of equity securities, with any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding shares, or with an affiliate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting shares (which is referred to as a so-called “interested stockholder”), or with an affiliate of an interested stockholder. These prohibitions last for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. After the five-year period, a business combination with an interested stockholder must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes unless, among other conditions, our common stockholders receive a minimum price for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares of common stock. Our Board of Directors has opted out of these business combination provisions. As a result, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements will not apply to a business combination involving the Company. Our Board of Directors may, however, repeal this election in most cases and cause us to become subject to these provisions in the future. We are dependent on external sources of capital, which may not be available. To qualify as a REIT, we must, among other things, distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). Because of these distribution requirements, we likely will not be able to fund all future capital needs with income from operations. We therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, including possible future equity offerings, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. Moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders’ interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase leverage. 34 Table of Contents We may change our policies without stockholder approval. Our Board of Directors and management determine all of our policies, including our investment, financing and distribution policies. Although they have no current plans to do so, they may amend or revise these policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders. Policy changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common stock or our ability to pay dividends or distributions. Our business could be adversely affected if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management continues to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no assurance that our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, particularly material weaknesses, in internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operation, financial condition, or liquidity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 