Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our shares of common stock involves a high degree of risk, and investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks occur, the market price of our shares of common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Additional risks that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, and our other filings made from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The current crisis in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Financial markets have experienced extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions. While we do not currently require access to credit markets to finance our operations, these economic developments have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our business in a number of ways. For instance, the economic crisis may decrease market acceptance of our products and reduce the demand for our products and the success of our product strategy. We face an increased risk that our customers will be unable to continue their operations and it may become more difficult to collect payments from our customers on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, the current tightening of credit in financial markets may also adversely affect the ability of our end customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and has resulted, and is likely to continue to result, in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders for our products or reduced ability to finance operations to supply products to us. As a result of the worldwide economic slowdown, it is extremely difficult for us and our customers to forecast future sales levels based on historical information and trends. Portions of our expenses are fixed and other expenses are tied to expected levels of sales activities. To the extent that we do not achieve our anticipated level of sales, our gross profit and net income could be adversely affected until such expenses are reduced to an appropriate level. Additionally, if we are unable to reduce our costs to respond to future decreases in revenue, we may utilize more of our cash resources than we planned. Any future actions that we take to limit our usage of cash may also reduce our ability to execute on our plans and strategies. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries. Our product strategy, which is targeted at markets demanding superior video and image quality, may not significantly lead to increased revenue or gross profit in a timely manner or at all, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We have adopted a product strategy that focuses on our core competencies in pixel processing and delivering high levels of video and image quality. With this strategy, we continue to make further investments in development of our ImageProcessor architecture for the digital projector market, with particular focus on adding increased performance and functionality. For the advanced television market, we are shifting away from our previous approach of implementing our intellectual property (“IP”) exclusively in system-on-chip integrated circuits (“ICs”), to an approach designed to improve video performance of our customers’ image processors through the use of a co-processor IC. This strategy is designed to address the needs of the large-screen, high-resolution, high-quality segment of the advanced television market. Additionally, we are focusing certain of our research and development efforts on new areas beyond our traditional applications, which may not result in increased revenue or gross profit. We have designed our new strategy to help us take advantage of expected market trends. While we have secured design wins with our new products, our expectations may not be accurate and these markets may not develop or they may take longer to develop than we expect. We cannot assure you that the products we are developing to address our new strategy will adequately address the needs of our target customers, that we will 11 Table of Contents be able to produce our new products at costs that enable us to price these products competitively or that our customers or potential customers will accept our products quickly enough or in sufficient volume to grow revenue and gross profit. Additionally, the current economic crisis may alter current market trends and reduce the demand for our products and the success of our product strategy. A lack of market acceptance or insufficient market acceptance would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We have incurred substantial indebtedness as a result of the sale of convertible debentures and may be unable to meet our future capital requirements. As of December 31, 2008, $60.6 million of our 1.75% convertible subordinated debentures due 2024 were outstanding. In February 2009, we repurchased and retired $27.1 million of the debentures for $17.8 million in cash, reducing the balance of our outstanding debentures to $33.5 million. Although the remaining debt obligations are due in 2024, the holders of debentures have the right to require us to purchase all or a portion of the outstanding debentures at each of the following dates: May 15, 2011, May 15, 2014 and May 15, 2019. Since the market price of our common stock is significantly below the conversion price of the debentures, the holders of our outstanding debentures are unlikely to convert the debentures into common stock in accordance with the existing terms of the debentures. Accordingly, we expect holders of the debentures to exercise a put option, requiring us to purchase all of the outstanding debentures on May 15, 2011, the earliest date allowed. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, some of which are beyond our control. Additionally, due to recent turmoil in the credit markets and the continued decline in the economy, we may not be able to refinance the debentures at terms that are as favorable as those currently contained in the debentures, or at terms that are acceptable to us at all. These debentures could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes, limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business, reduce funds available for use in our operations and make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. While we believe that our current cash and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the next twelve months, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain sufficient cash and marketable security balances to refinance or pay off the convertible debentures when and if the put option is exercised. We may need, or could elect to seek, additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing, which we may not be able to obtain. If we issue equity securities, our shareholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Additionally, one of the covenants of the indenture governing the debentures can be interpreted such that if we are late with any of our required filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“1934 Act”), and if we fail to affect a cure within 60 days, the holders of the debentures can put the debentures back to the Company, whereby the debentures become immediately due and payable. As a result of our restructuring efforts, we have fewer employees to perform day-to-day controls, processes and activities and additionally, certain functions have been transferred to new employees who are not as familiar with our procedures. These changes increase the risk that we will be unable to make timely filings in accordance with the 1934 Act. Any resulting default under our debentures would have a material adverse effect on our cash position and operating results. The June 4, 2008 one-for-three reverse split of outstanding shares of our common stock has not resulted in a material increase in the bid price of our common stock and we may be unable to maintain compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rules without taking additional action, which could include effecting an additional reverse stock split. If we are delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, there may not be a market for our common stock, which could cause a decrease in the value of an investment in us and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On June 4, 2008, we effected a one-for-three reverse split of our common stock. We effected the reverse split to attempt to regain compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, particularly the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Global Market. Though the per share price of our 12 Table of Contents common stock increased to over $2.00 per share immediately following the reverse split, the price has since closed below $1.00 per share and we cannot guarantee that it will recover to $1.00 per share. If the price does not recover to $1.00 per share, the stock could become subject to delisting again, and we may seek shareholder approval for an additional reverse split. Although NASDAQ has implemented a temporary suspension of the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement, this requirement is scheduled for reinstatement on April 20, 2009. A second reverse split could produce negative effects. We could not guarantee that an additional reverse split would result in a long-term or permanent increase in the price of our common stock. The market might perceive a decision to effect an additional reverse split as a negative indicator of our future prospects, and as a result, the price of our common stock might decline after such a reverse split (perhaps by an even greater percentage than would have occurred in the absence of such a reverse split). An additional reverse split could also make it more difficult for us to meet certain other requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, including rules related to the minimum number of shares that must be in the public float, the minimum market value of the public float and the minimum number of round lot holders. Investors might consider the increased proportion of unissued authorized shares to issued shares to have an anti-takeover effect under certain circumstances by allowing for dilutive issuances which could prevent certain shareholders from changing the composition of the board, or could render tender offers for a combination with another entity more difficult to complete successfully. Additionally, customers, suppliers or employees might consider a company with low trading volume risky and might be less likely to transact business with us. If our common stock is delisted, trading of the stock will most likely take place on an over-the-counter market established for unlisted securities, such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. An investor is likely to find it less convenient to sell, or to obtain accurate quotations in seeking to buy, our common stock on an over-the-counter market, and many investors may not buy or sell our common stock due to difficulty in accessing over-the-counter markets, or due to policies preventing them from trading in securities not listed on a national exchange or other reasons. In addition, as a delisted security, our common stock would be subject to SEC rules regarding “penny stock,” which impose additional disclosure requirements on broker-dealers. The regulations relating to penny stocks, coupled with the typically higher cost per trade to investors in penny stocks due to factors such as broker commissions generally representing a higher percentage of the price of a penny stock than of a higher priced stock, would further limit the ability and willingness of investors to trade in our common stock. For these reasons and others, delisting would adversely affect the liquidity, trading volume and price of our common stock, causing the value of an investment in us to decrease and having an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to attract and retain qualified executives and employees and to raise capital. The price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate substantially. Our stock price and the stock prices of technology companies similar to Pixelworks have been highly volatile. Market fluctuations, particularly over the past several months, as well as general economic and political conditions, including recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Therefore, the price of our common stock may decline, and the value of your investment may be reduced regardless of our performance. Any inability or perceived inability of investors to realize a gain on an investment in our common stock could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, by potentially limiting our ability to retain our customers, to attract and retain qualified employees and to raise capital. Additional factors that could negatively impact our stock price include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations, design wins, contracts, standards or acquisitions; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; 13 Table of Contents • announcements of future expectations by our customers; • changes in market valuations of other technology companies; and • inconsistent trading volume levels of our common stock. Intense competition in our markets may reduce sales of our products, reduce our market share, decrease our gross profit and result in large losses. Rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and customer requirements, compressed product life cycles and declining average selling prices are characteristics of our market and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As the overall price of digital projectors and advanced flat panel displays continues to fall, we may be required to offer our products to manufacturers at discounted prices due to increased price competition. At the same time, new alternative technologies and industry standards may emerge that directly compete with technologies we offer. We may be required to increase our investment in research and development at the same time that product prices are falling. In addition, even after making this investment, we cannot assure you that our technologies will be superior to those of our competitors or that our products will achieve market acceptance, whether for performance or price reasons. Failure to effectively respond to these trends could reduce the demand for our products. We compete with specialized and diversified electronics and semiconductor companies that offer display processors or scaling components. Some of these include Broadcom Corporation, i-Chips Technologies Inc., Integrated Device Technology, Inc., Jepico Corp., MediaTek Inc., Micronas Semiconductor Holding AG, MStar Semiconductor, Inc., Realtek Semiconductor Corp., Renesas Technology Corp., Sigma Designs, Inc., Silicon Image, Inc., STMicroelectronics N.V., Sunplus Technology Co., Ltd., Techwell, Inc., Topro Technology Inc., Trident Microsystems, Inc., Weltrend Semiconductor, Inc., Zoran Corporation and other companies. Potential and current competitors may include diversified semiconductor manufacturers and the semiconductor divisions or affiliates of some of our customers, including Intel Corporation, LG Electronics, Inc., Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Digital Electronics America, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation, NEC Corporation, NVIDIA Corporation, NXP Semiconductors, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., SANYO Electric Co., Ltd., Seiko Epson Corporation, Sharp Electronics Corporation, Sony Corporation, Texas Instruments Incorporated and Toshiba America, Inc. In addition, start-up companies may seek to compete in our markets. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources to support development and marketing efforts than we do. Some of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities. These competitors may be able to react more quickly and devote more resources to efforts that compete directly with our own. Our current or potential customers have developed, and may continue to develop, their own proprietary technologies and become our competitors. Our competitors may develop advanced technologies enabling them to offer more cost-effective products. Increased competition could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations by, for example, increasing pressure on our profit margin or causing us to lose sales opportunities. We cannot assure you that we can compete successfully against current or potential competitors. If we do not achieve additional design wins in the future, our ability to grow will be seriously limited. Even if we achieve additional design wins in the future, we may not realize significant revenue from the design wins. Our future success depends on developers of advanced display products designing our products into their systems. To achieve design wins, we must define and deliver cost-effective, innovative and integrated semiconductors. Once a supplier’s products have been designed into a system, the developer may be reluctant to change its source of components due to the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier. Accordingly, it may be difficult for us to achieve additional design wins. The failure on our part to obtain additional design wins with leading branded manufacturers or integrators, and to successfully design, develop and introduce new products and product enhancements could seriously limit our ability to grow. 14 Table of Contents Additionally, achieving a design win does not necessarily mean that a developer will order large volumes of our products. A design win is not a binding commitment by a developer to purchase our products. Rather, it is a decision by a developer to use our products in the design process of that developer’s products. Developers can choose at any time to discontinue using our products in their designs or product development efforts. If our products are chosen to be incorporated into a developer’s products, we may still not realize significant revenue from that developer if that developer’s products are not commercially successful or if that developer chooses to qualify, or incorporate the products of, a second source, and any of those circumstances might cause our revenue to decline. Despite our restructuring efforts, we may not achieve profitability in the future and, if we do, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are not profitable in the future, we may be unable to continue our operations. In 2006, we initiated restructuring plans, which we implemented throughout 2007 and 2008, aimed at returning the Company to profitability. In December 2008, we initiated a restructuring plan to reduce our operating expenses due to decreases in current and forecasted revenue. The plan reduces operations, research and development and administrative headcount in our San Jose, Taiwan and China offices, and we expect the plan to be substantially complete in the first quarter of 2009. We cannot be certain that these plans will be successful or that future restructuring efforts will not be necessary. We will continue to monitor and evaluate the need for additional restructuring actions in light of global economic uncertainty and its potential impact on our continuing business, however uncertainty regarding the outlook for 2009 and beyond impedes our ability to forecast the scope and impact of these actions. Despite our restructuring efforts, we may not achieve profitability in the future and, if we do, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. The years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2008 are our only years of profitability since inception and we may be unable to achieve profitability in future periods. Additionally, our profitability in 2008 was primarily the result of gains we recognized on the repurchase of a portion of our convertible subordinated debentures. We did not achieve operating profits in 2008. If we are not profitable in the future, we may be unable to continue our operations. If we engage in further restructuring efforts, we may be unable to successfully implement new products or enhancements to our current products, which will adversely affect our future sales and financial condition. We expect to continue to introduce new and enhanced products, and our future sales will depend on customer acceptance of our new products and the enhancements that we may make to our current products. However, if our recent restructuring efforts are insufficient to reduce our cost structure to a level that is commensurate with our revenue, we may be forced to make additional headcount reductions or implement additional cost saving initiatives. These actions could impact our research and development and engineering activities, which may slow our development of new or enhanced products. If we are unable to successfully introduce new or enhanced products, our sales and financial condition will be adversely affected. We may not be able to respond to the rapid technological changes in the markets in which we compete, or seek to compete, or we may not be able to comply with industry standards in the future, making our products less desirable or obsolete. The markets in which we compete or seek to compete are subject to rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changing customer requirements for new products and features and evolving industry standards. The introduction of new technologies and emergence of new industry standards could render our products less desirable or obsolete, which could harm our business. Examples of changing industry standards include the growing use of broadband to deliver video content, the transition from 720 High Definition to 1080p Full High Definition resolution video, faster screen refresh rates, the proliferation of new display devices and the drive to network display devices together. Our failure to adequately respond to such technological changes could render our products obsolete or significantly decrease our revenue. 15 Table of Contents Because of the complex nature of our semiconductor designs and associated manufacturing processes and the rapid evolution of our customers’ product designs, we may not be able to develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner, which could decrease customer demand for our products and reduce our revenue. The development of our semiconductors is highly complex. These complexities require us to employ advanced designs and manufacturing processes that are unproven. The result can be longer and less predictable development cycles. Timely introduction of new or enhanced products depends on a number of other factors, including, but not limited to: • accurate prediction of customer requirements and evolving industry standards; • development of advanced display technologies and capabilities; • use of advanced foundry processes and achievement of high manufacturing yields; and • market acceptance of new products. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce products in a timely manner, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We have experienced increased development time and delays in introducing new products that have resulted in significantly less revenue than originally expected for those products. Our international structure has significantly added to the complexity of our product development efforts as we must now coordinate very complex product development programs between multiple geographically dispersed locations. Our restructuring plans have also significantly affected our product development efforts by reducing the number of personnel dedicated to product development efforts. We may not be successful in timely delivery of new products with reduced numbers of employees. Any such failure could cause us to lose customers or potential customers, which would decrease our revenue. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may lead to significant variances in the demand for our products and could harm our operations. In the past, the semiconductor industry has been characterized by significant downturns and wide fluctuations in supply and demand. Also, the industry has experienced significant fluctuations in anticipation of changes in general economic conditions, including economic conditions in Asia and North America. For example, the current global economic crisis has caused a slowdown in the demand for our products and other semiconductor products in general, and such slowdown may continue for an extended period of time. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has led to significant variances in product demand and production capacity. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, periodic fluctuations in our future financial results because of changes in industry-wide conditions. Because of our long product development process and sales cycles, we may incur substantial costs before we earn associated revenue and ultimately may not sell as many units of our products as we originally anticipated. We develop products based on anticipated market and customer requirements and incur substantial product development expenditures, which can include the payment of large up-front, third-party license fees and royalties, prior to generating associated revenue. Our work under these projects is technically challenging and places considerable demands on our limited resources, particularly on our most senior engineering talent. Because the development of our products incorporates not only our complex and evolving technology but also our customers’ specific requirements, a lengthy sales process is often required before potential customers begin the technical evaluation of our products. Our customers typically perform numerous tests and extensively evaluate our products before incorporating them into their systems. The time required for testing, evaluation and design of our products into a customer’s system can take up to nine months or more. It can take an additional nine months or longer before a customer commences volume shipments of systems that incorporate our products. We cannot assure you that the time required for the testing, evaluation and design of our products by our customers would not be significantly longer than nine months. 16 Table of Contents Because of the lengthy development and sales cycles, we will experience delays between the time we incur expenditures for research and development, sales and marketing and inventory and the time we generate revenue, if any, from these expenditures. Additionally, if actual sales volumes for a particular product are substantially less than originally anticipated, we may experience large write-offs of capitalized license fees, software development tools, product masks, inventories or other capitalized or deferred product-related costs, or increased amortization of non-cancelable prepaid royalties, any of which would negatively affect our operating results. For example, our provisions for obsolete inventory were $1.5 million, $4.4 million and $6.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Additionally, in 2007, we wrote-off assets with a net book value of $6.9 million due to reductions in research and development personnel and changes in product development strategy. Our products are characterized by average selling prices that decline over relatively short periods of time, which will negatively affect our financial results unless we are able to reduce our product costs or introduce new products with higher average selling prices. Average selling prices for our products decline over relatively short periods of time, while many of our product costs are fixed. When our average selling prices decline, our gross profit declines unless we are able to sell more units or reduce the cost to manufacture our products. Our operating results are negatively affected when revenue or gross profit declines. We have experienced declines in our average selling prices and expect that we will continue to experience them in the future, although we cannot predict when they may occur or how severe they will be. The current crisis in global credit and financial markets may result in more rapid declines in average selling prices, as potential customers have less cash available for purchases and operations and, in some instances, exit the market. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs, adding new features to our existing products or developing new or enhanced products in a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross profits. Because we do not have long-term commitments from our customers and plan inventory purchases based on estimates of customer demand which may be inaccurate, we contract for the manufacture of our products based on potentially inaccurate estimates. Our sales are made on the basis of customer purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our customers may cancel or defer purchase orders at any time but we must order wafer inventory from our subcontract manufacturers four months in advance. This process requires us to make numerous assumptions concerning demand, each of which may introduce error into our estimates of inventory requirements and the current financial crisis and economic downturn has made it more difficult for us and our customers to accurately forecast demand. If our customers or we overestimate demand, we may purchase components or have products manufactured that we may not be able to use or sell. As a result, we would have excess inventory, which would negatively affect our operating results. For example, we overestimated demand for certain of our products which led to significant charges for obsolete inventory in 2008, 2007 and 2006. Conversely, if our customers or we underestimate demand, or if sufficient manufacturing capacity is not available, we would forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. A significant amount of our revenue comes from a limited number of customers and distributors. Any decrease in revenue from, or loss of, any of these customers or distributors could significantly reduce our revenue. The display manufacturing market is highly concentrated and we are, and will continue to be, dependent on a limited number of customers and distributors for a substantial portion of our revenue. Sales to distributors represented 53%, 57% and 52% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Sales to Tokyo Electron Device, or TED, our Japanese distributor, represented 32%, 33% and 26% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Revenue attributable to our top five end customers represented 55%, 47% and 39% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Sales to Seiko Epson Corporation, our top end customer, represented 24%, 17 Table of Contents 21% and 15% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. A reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers, or a decision by one or more of our significant customers to select products manufactured by a competitor or to use its own internally-developed semiconductors, would significantly impact our revenue. For example, our loss of a key OEM customer in Europe contributed to a $45.5 million, or 51%, decrease in advanced television revenue from 2005 to 2006. The concentration of our accounts receivable with a limited number of customers exposes us to increased credit risk and could harm our operating results and cash flows. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007 we had three and two customers, respectively, that each represented 10% or more of accounts receivable. The concentration of our accounts receivable with a limited number of customers increases our credit risk. The failure of these customers to pay their balances, or any other customer to pay future outstanding balances, would result in an operating expense and reduce our cash flows. The anti-takeover provisions of Oregon law and in our articles of incorporation could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock by preventing a sale or takeover of us at a price or prices favorable to the holders of our common stock. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Oregon law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of us, making a merger or acquisition of us less desirable to a potential acquirer or preventing a change in our management, even if our shareholders consider the merger, acquisition or change in management favorable or if doing so would benefit our shareholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The following are examples of such provisions in our articles of incorporation or bylaws: • our board of directors is authorized, without prior shareholder approval, to change the size of the board. Our articles of incorporation provide that if the board is increased to eight or more members, the board will be divided into three classes serving staggered terms, which would make it more difficult for a group of shareholders to quickly change the composition of our board; • our board of directors is authorized, without prior shareholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us or to effect a change of control, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock; • members of our board of directors can only be removed for cause and at a meeting of shareholders called expressly for that purpose, by the vote of 75 percent of the votes then entitled to be cast for the election of directors; • the board of directors may alter our bylaws without obtaining shareholder approval; and • shareholders are required to provide advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon at a shareholder meeting. Our dependence on selling to distributors and integrators increases the complexity of managing our supply chain and may result in excess inventory or inventory shortages. Selling to distributors and integrators reduces our ability to forecast sales accurately and increases the complexity of our business. Since our distributors act as intermediaries between us and the companies using our products, we must rely on our distributors to accurately report inventory levels and production forecasts. We must similarly rely on our integrators. Our integrators are original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) that build display devices based on specifications provided by branded suppliers. Selling to distributors and OEMs adds another layer between us and the ultimate source of demand for our products, the consumer. These arrangements require us to manage a complex supply chain and to monitor the financial condition and creditworthiness of our distributors, integrators and customers. They also make it more difficult for us to predict demand for our products. Our failure to manage one or more of these challenges could result in excess 18 Table of Contents inventory or inventory shortages that could materially impact our operating results or limit the ability of companies using our semiconductors to deliver their products. The competitiveness and viability of our products could be harmed if necessary licenses of third-party technology are not available to us or are only available on terms that are not commercially viable. We license technology from independent third parties that is incorporated into our products or product enhancements. Future products or product enhancements may require additional third-party licenses that may not be available to us or may not be available on terms that are commercially reasonable. In addition, in the event of a change in control of one of our licensors, it may become difficult to maintain access to its licensed technology. If we are unable to obtain or maintain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements, we may have to obtain substitute technology with lower quality or performance standards, or at greater cost, either of which could seriously harm the competitiveness of our products. Our limited ability to protect our IP and proprietary rights could harm our competitive position by allowing our competitors to access our proprietary technology and to introduce similar products. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology, including our semiconductor designs and software. We provide the computer programming code for our software to customers in connection with their product development efforts, thereby increasing the risk that customers will misappropriate our proprietary software. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to help protect our proprietary technologies. As of December 31, 2008 we held 90 patents and had 64 patent applications pending for protection of our significant technologies. Competitors in both the U.S. and foreign countries, many of whom have substantially greater resources than we do, may apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make and sell our products, or they may develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Effective copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. We cannot assure you that the degree of protection offered by patent or trade secret laws will be sufficient. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any patents will be issued as a result of any pending applications or that any claims allowed under issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Others may bring infringement actions against us that could be time consuming and expensive to defend. We may become subject to claims involving patents or other IP rights. IP claims could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. In addition, IP claims may be brought against customers that incorporate our products in the design of their own products. These claims, regardless of their success or merit and regardless of whether we are named as defendants in a lawsuit, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert the time and attention of management and technical personnel. Any IP litigation or claims also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products using technology that contains the allegedly infringing IP; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant IP, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; • attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing IP; or • pay damages for past infringement claims that are determined to be valid or which are arrived at in settlement of such litigation or threatened litigation. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we may incur significant additional costs or be unable to manufacture and sell our products, which could seriously harm our business. In addition, we may not be able to develop, license or acquire non-infringing technology under reasonable terms. These developments could result in an inability to compete for customers or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Failure to manage any future expansion efforts effectively could adversely affect our business and results of operations. To manage any future expansion efforts effectively in a rapidly evolving market, we must be able to maintain and improve our operational and financial systems, train and manage our employee base and attract and retain qualified personnel with relevant experience. We must also manage multiple relationships with customers, business partners, contract manufacturers, suppliers and other third parties. We could spend substantial amounts of time and money in connection with expansion efforts for which we may not realize any profit. Our systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support our operations and we may not be able to expand quickly enough to exploit potential market opportunities. If we do not manage any future expansion efforts effectively, our operating expenses could increase more rapidly than our revenue, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. International sales account for almost all of our revenue, and if we do not successfully address the risks associated with international sales, our revenue could decrease. Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 95% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 96% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. We anticipate that sales outside the U.S. will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in future periods. In addition, customers who incorporate our products into their products sell a substantial portion of their products outside of the U.S., and all of our products are manufactured outside of the U.S. We are, therefore, subject to many international risks, including, but not limited to: • increased difficulties in managing international distributors and manufacturers due to varying time zones, languages and business customs; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations in the currencies of Japan, the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”), Taiwan or Korea; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • difficulties regarding timing and availability of export and import licenses; • political and economic instability, particularly in the PRC, Japan, Taiwan, or Korea; • reduced or limited protection of our IP, particularly in software, which is more prone to design piracy; • increased transaction costs related to sales transactions conducted outside of the U.S., such as charges to secure letters of credit; • difficulties in maintaining sales representatives outside of the U.S. that are knowledgeable about our industry and products; • changes in the regulatory environment in the PRC, Japan, Taiwan and Korea that may significantly impact purchases of our products by our customers; • outbreaks of SARS, bird flu or other pandemics in the PRC or other parts of Asia; and • difficulties in collecting outstanding accounts receivable balances. Our presence and investment within the People’s Republic of China subjects us to risks of economic and political instability in the area, which could adversely impact our results of operations. A substantial, and potentially increasing, portion of our products are manufactured by foundries located in the PRC. In addition, a significant percentage of our employees are located in this area. Disruptions from natural disasters, health epidemics (including new outbreaks of SARS or bird flu) and political, social and economic instability may affect the region and would have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, the economy of the PRC differs from the economies of many countries in respects such as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, self- 20 Table of Contents sufficiency, rate of inflation and balance of payments position, among others. In the past, the economy of the PRC has been primarily a planned economy subject to state plans. Since the entry of the PRC into the World Trade Organization in 2002, the PRC government has been reforming its economic and political systems. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social change. We cannot be assured that the PRC’s policies for economic reforms will be consistent or effective. Our results of operations and financial position may be harmed by changes in the PRC’s political, economic or social conditions. The concentration of our manufacturers and customers in the same geographic region increases our risk that a natural disaster, labor strike or political unrest could disrupt our operations. Most of our current manufacturers and customers are located in the PRC, Japan, Korea or Taiwan. The risk of earthquakes in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines in the area. Common consequences of earthquakes include power outages and disruption or impairment of production capacity. Earthquakes, fire, flooding, power outages and other natural disasters in the Pacific Rim region, or political unrest, labor strikes or work stoppages in countries where our manufacturers and customers are located, would likely result in the disruption of our manufacturers’ and customers’ operations. Any disruption resulting from extraordinary events could cause significant delays in shipments of our products until we are able to shift our manufacturing from the affected contractor to another third-party vendor. There can be no assurance that alternative capacity could be obtained on favorable terms, or in a timely manner, if at all. Our future success depends upon the continued services of key personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace, and the loss of one or more of these employees could seriously harm our business by delaying product development. We believe our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified hardware and software engineers, sales, marketing, finance and managerial personnel. Competition for talented personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our key personnel or identify, attract or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. Because of the highly technical nature of our business, the loss of key engineering personnel could delay product introductions and significantly impair our ability to successfully create future products. If we do not succeed in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications, our product development efforts, revenue and business could be seriously harmed. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. In the last two years a significant portion of our executive management team has turned over, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Sales, Vice President of Marketing, Vice President of Business Operations and Vice President, Strategy and Market Development. During 2006 and 2007, we also experienced difficulties hiring and retaining qualified engineers in our Shanghai design center. Dependence on a limited number of sole-source, third-party manufacturers for our products exposes us to shortages based on capacity allocation or low manufacturing yield, errors in manufacturing, price increases with little notice, volatile inventory levels and delays in product delivery, which could result in delays in satisfying customer demand, increased costs and loss of revenue. We contract with third-party foundries for wafer fabrication and other manufacturers for packaging, assembly and testing of our products. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility and do not have the resources to manufacture our products internally. Our wafers are fabricated by Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation and Toshiba Corporation. The wafers used in each of our products are fabricated by only one of these manufacturers. Sole sourcing each product increases our dependence on our suppliers. We have limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields, potential errors in manufacturing and production costs. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our third-party manufacturers or packaging, assembly and testing contractors, so they are not obligated to supply us with products for any specific period of time, quantity or price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. From time to time, our suppliers increase 21 Table of Contents prices charged to produce our products with little notice. If the prices charged by our contract manufacturers increase we may increase our prices, which could harm our competitiveness. Our requirements represent only a small portion of the total production capacity of our contract manufacturers, who have in the past re-allocated capacity to other customers even during periods of high demand for our products. We expect this may occur again in the future. In addition, the current tightening of credit in financial markets may affect the ability of our suppliers to maintain their production capacity and result in a reduction in the supply of wafers to us. If we are unable to obtain our products from our contract manufacturers on schedule, or at all, our ability to satisfy customer demand will be harmed and revenue from the sale of products may be lost or delayed. If orders for our products are cancelled, expected revenue would not be realized. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2005, one of our contract manufacturers experienced temporary manufacturing delays due to unexpected manufacturing process problems, which caused delays in delivery of our products and made it difficult for us to satisfy our customer demand. If we have to qualify a new foundry or packaging, assembly and testing supplier for any of our products, we may experience delays that result in lost revenue and damaged customer relationships. Our products require manufacturing with state-of-the-art fabrication equipment and techniques. The lead-time needed to establish a relationship with a new contract manufacturer is at least nine months, and the estimated time for us to adapt a product’s design to a particular contract manufacturer’s process is at least four months. If we have to qualify a new foundry or packaging, assembly and testing supplier for any of our products, we could incur significant delays in shipping products, which may result in lost revenue and damaged customer relationships. Manufacturers of our semiconductor products periodically discontinue older manufacturing processes, which could make our products unavailable from our current suppliers. Semiconductor manufacturing technologies change rapidly and manufacturers typically discontinue older manufacturing processes in favor of newer ones. For instance, a portion of our products use embedded dynamic random access memory, (“DRAM”) technology, which requires manufacturing processes that are being phased out. We also utilize 0.18um, 0.15um and 0.13um standard logic processes, which may only be available for the next five to seven years. Once a manufacturer makes the decision to retire a manufacturing process, notice is generally given to its customers. Customers will then either retire the affected part or develop a new version of the part that can be manufactured with a newer process. In the event that a manufacturing process is discontinued, our current suppliers may be unwilling or unable to manufacture our current products. Additionally, migrating to a new, more advanced process requires significant expenditures for research and development and takes significant time. For example in the third quarter of 2006, one of our third-party foundries discontinued the manufacturing process used to produce one of our products. While we were able to place last time buy orders, we underestimated demand for this part. As a result, we had to pay additional amounts to the foundry to restart production and we were unable to fulfill customer orders in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that we will be able to place last time buy orders in the future or that we will find alternate manufacturers of our products. We are dependent on our foundries to implement complex semiconductor technologies and our operations could be adversely affected if those technologies are unavailable, delayed or inefficiently implemented. In order to increase performance and functionality and reduce the size of our products, we are continuously developing new products using advanced technologies that further miniaturize semiconductors. However, we are dependent on our foundries to develop and provide access to the advanced processes that enable such miniaturization. We cannot be certain that future advanced manufacturing processes will be implemented without difficulties, delays or increased expenses. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if advanced manufacturing processes are unavailable to us, substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. 22 Table of Contents Our highly integrated products and high-speed mixed signal products are difficult to manufacture without defects and the existence of defects could result in increased costs, delays in the availability of our products, reduced sales of products or claims against us. The manufacture of semiconductors is a complex process and it is often difficult for semiconductor foundries to produce semiconductors free of defects. Because many of our products are more highly integrated than other semiconductors and incorporate mixed analog and digital signal processing and embedded memory technology, they are even more difficult to produce without defects. Defective products can be caused by design or manufacturing difficulties. Therefore, identifying quality problems can occur only by analyzing and testing our semiconductors in a system after they have been manufactured. The difficulty in identifying defects is compounded because the process technology is unique to each of the multiple semiconductor foundries we contract with to manufacture our products. Despite testing by both our customers and us, errors or performance problems may be found in existing or new semiconductors. Failure to achieve defect-free products may result in increased costs and delays in the availability of our products. Additionally, customers could seek damages from us for their losses and shipments of defective products may harm our reputation with our customers. We have experienced field failures of our semiconductors in certain customer system applications that required us to institute additional testing. As a result of these field failures, we incurred warranty costs due to customers returning potentially affected products. Our customers have also experienced delays in receiving product shipments from us that resulted in the loss of revenue and profits. Shipments of defective products could cause us to lose customers or incur significant replacement costs, either of which would harm our business. We use a customer owned tooling process for manufacturing most of our products which exposes us to the possibility of poor yields and unacceptably high product costs. We are building most of our products on a customer owned tooling basis, also known in the semiconductor industry as COT, where we directly contract the manufacture of wafers and assume the responsibility for the assembly and testing of our products. As a result, we are subject to increased risks arising from wafer manufacturing yields and risks associated with coordination of the manufacturing, assembly and testing process. Poor product yields result in higher product costs, which could make our products uncompetitive if we increased our prices to compensate for our higher costs, or could result in low gross profit margins if we did not increase our prices. Shortages of materials used in the manufacturing of our products may increase our costs or limit our revenue and impair our ability to ship our products on time. From time to time, shortages of materials that are used in our products may occur. In particular, we may experience shortages of semiconductor wafers and packages. If material shortages occur, we may incur additional costs or be unable to ship our products to our customers in a timely fashion, both of which could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Shortages of other key components for our customers’ products could delay our ability to sell our products. Shortages of components and other materials that are critical to the design and manufacture of our customers’ products could limit our sales. These components include display components, analog-to-digital converters, digital receivers and video decoders. Integration of software with our products adds complexity and cost that may affect our ability to achieve design wins and may affect our profitability. The integration of software with our products adds complexity, may extend our internal development programs and could impact our customers’ development schedules. This complexity requires increased coordination between hardware and software development schedules and may increase our operating expenses without a 23 Table of Contents corresponding increase in product revenue. This additional level of complexity lengthens the sales cycle and may result in customers selecting competitive products requiring less software integration. Our software development tools may be incompatible with industry standards and challenging to implement, which could slow product development or cause us to lose customers and design wins. We provide software development tools to help customers evaluate our products and bring them into production. Software development is a complex process and we are dependent on software development languages and operating systems from vendors that may compromise our ability to design software in a timely manner. Also, as software tools and interfaces change rapidly, new software languages introduced to the market may be incompatible with our existing systems and tools. New software development languages may not be compatible with our own, requiring significant engineering efforts to migrate our existing systems in order to be compatible with those new languages. Existing or new software development tools could make our current products obsolete or hard to use. Software development disruptions could slow our product development or cause us to lose customers and design wins. If products incorporating our semiconductors are not compatible with computer display protocols, video standards and other devices, the market for our products will be reduced and our business prospects could be significantly limited. Our products are incorporated into our customers’ products, which have different parts and specifications and utilize multiple protocols that allow them to be compatible with specific computers, video standards and other devices. If our customers’ products are not compatible with these protocols and standards, consumers will return, or not purchase, these products and the markets for our customers’ products could be significantly reduced. As a result, a portion of our market would be eliminated, and our business would be harmed. Decreased effectiveness of share-based payment awards could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees, officers and directors. We have historically used stock options and other forms of share-based payment awards as key components of our total compensation program in order to retain employees, officers and directors and to provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, (“SFAS 123R”), we began recording stock-based compensation expense for share-based awards in the first quarter of 2006. As a result, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant compensation costs associated with our share-based programs, making it more expensive for us to grant share-based payment awards to employees, officers and directors. To the extent that SFAS 123R makes it more expensive to grant stock options or to continue to have an employee stock purchase plan, we may decide to incur cash compensation costs in the future. Actions that we take to reduce stock-based compensation expense that might be more aggressive than actions implemented by our competitors could make it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, officers, or directors, which could adversely affect our competitive position as well as our business and results of operations. As a result of reviewing our equity compensation strategy, in 2006 we reduced the total number of options granted to employees and the number of employees who receive share-based payment awards. We may be unable to successfully integrate any future acquisition or equity investment we make, which could disrupt our business and severely harm our financial condition. We may not be able to successfully integrate businesses, products, technologies or personnel of any entity that we might acquire in the future, and any failure to do so could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition. In addition, if we acquire any company with weak internal controls, it will take time to get the acquired company up to a level of operating effectiveness acceptable to us and to implement adequate internal control, management, financial and operating reporting systems. Our inability to address these risks could negatively affect our operating results. 24 Table of Contents To date, we have acquired Panstera, Inc. (“Panstera”) in January 2001, nDSP Corporation (“nDSP”) in January 2002, Jaldi Semiconductor Corporation (“Jaldi”) in September 2002 and Equator Technologies, Inc. (“Equator”) in June 2005. In March 2003, we announced the execution of a definitive merger agreement with Genesis Microchip, Inc.; however, the merger was terminated in August 2003, and we incurred $8.9 million of expenses related to the transaction. The acquisitions of Panstera, nDSP, Jaldi and Equator contained a very high level of risk primarily because the decisions to acquire these companies were made based on unproven technological developments and, at the time of the acquisitions, we did not know if we would complete the unproven technologies or, if we did complete the technologies, if they would be commercially viable. These and any future acquisitions and investments could result in any of the following negative events, among others: • issuance of stock that dilutes current shareholders’ percentage ownership; • incurrence of debt; • assumption of liabilities; • amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets; • impairment of goodwill; • large and immediate write-offs; or • decreases in cash and marketable securities that could otherwise serve as working capital. Our operation of any acquired business will also involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: • problems combining the acquired operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations. Our acquisition of Equator has not been as successful as we anticipated. We acquired Equator for an aggregate purchase price of $118.1 million and recorded, among other assets, $57.5 million in goodwill, $36.8 million in acquired developed technology and $4.2 million in other acquired intangible assets. However, the Equator technology has not proven as useful as we had hoped, and thus we have recorded impairment losses on goodwill and intangible assets acquired from Equator, and only a few of the Equator employees remain employed by us. Additionally, while we are continuing to provide customers with existing products, we are no longer pursuing stand-alone advanced media processor markets that are not core to our business. Continued compliance with regulatory and accounting requirements will be challenging and will require significant resources. We are spending a significant amount of management time and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including new Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations, NASDAQ Global Market rules and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 which requires management’s annual review and evaluation of internal control over financial reporting. While we invested significant time and money in our effort to evaluate and test our internal control over financial reporting, a material weakness was identified in our internal control over financial reporting in 2004. Although the material weakness was remediated in the first quarter of 2005, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of internal controls and procedures, including cost limitations, the possibility of human error, judgments and assumptions regarding the likelihood of future 25 Table of Contents events, and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective controls and procedures can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives. Environmental laws and regulations have caused us to incur, and may cause us to continue to incur, significant expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations, and may cause us to incur significant penalties for noncompliance. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could require us to incur substantial expenses which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, during 2006 the European Parliament enacted the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS, which restricts the sale of new electrical and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous substances, including lead. In 2006, we incurred increased inventory provisions as a result of the enactment of RoHS, which adversely affected our gross profit margin. Additionally during 2006, the European Parliament enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or WEEE Directive, which makes producers of electrical and electronic equipment financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Additionally, some jurisdictions have begun to require various levels of Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (“EPEAT”) certification, which are based on the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 1680 standard. The highest levels of EPEAT certification restrict the usage of halogen. Although our older generation products, many of which are still shipping to customers, do contain halogen, our next generation designs do not. We have worked, and will continue to work, with our suppliers and customers to ensure that our products are compliant with enacted laws and regulations. Failure by us or our contract manufacturers to comply with such legislation could result in customers refusing to purchase our products and could subject us to significant monetary penalties in connection with a violation, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over time, imposing even greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of our inability to obtain permits, human error, equipment failure or other causes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 26 Table of Contents 