Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors that Could Affect Operating Results Statements included in Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this document that do not relate to present or historical conditions are ‘‘forward-looking statements’’ within the meaning of that term in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and in Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Additional oral or written forward-looking statements may be made by the Company from time to time, and such statements may be included in documents that are filed with the SEC. Such forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainties that could cause results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as ‘ ‘believes,’’ ‘‘forecasts,’’ ‘‘intends,’’ ‘‘possible,’’ ‘‘expects,’’ ‘‘estimates,’’ ‘‘anticipates,’’ or ‘‘plans’’ and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Company cautions readers that results predicted by forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those relating to the Company’s future business prospects, revenues, working capital, liquidity, capital needs, interest costs, and income are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements, due to the following factors, among other risks and factors identified from time to time in the Company’s filings with the SEC. Among the important factors on which such statements are based are assumptions concerning the anti cipated growth of the information technology industry, the continued needs of current and prospective customers for the Company’s services, the availability of qualified professional staff, and price and wage inflation. Operating Losses The Company has incurred operating losses in 2007 and 2005. In the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company had an operating loss of ($1,142,000). In the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company had an operating loss of ($461,000). There is no guarantee that the Company can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If revenues grow slower than anticipated, or if operating expenses exceed expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly the Company could experience operating losses and net losses and the results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Dependence on Limited Number of Clients The Company derives a significant portion of its revenues from a relatively limited number of clients primarily located in the New York/New Jersey metropolitan area of the United States. Adverse economic conditions affecting this region could have an adverse effect on the financial condition of its clients located there, which in turn could adversely impact the Company’s business and future growth. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company had three customers which accounted for approximately 23%, 18%, and 11% of revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company had four customers which accounted for approximately 21%, 14%, 10%, and 10% of revenues, respectively. For the year ended 5 Table of Contents December 31, 2005, the Company had three customers which accounted for approximately 21%, 20% and 15% of revenues, respectively. Besides these customers, no other customer represented greater than 10% of the Company’s revenues. In any given year, the Company’s ten most significant customers may vary based upon specific projects for those clients during that year. There can be no assurance that the Company’s significant clients will continue to engage it for additional projects or do so at the same revenue levels. Clients engage the Company on an assignment-by-assignment basis, and a client can generally terminate an assignment at any time without penalties. The loss of any significant customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. A failure of the Company to develop relationships with new customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Project Risk The Company’s projects entail significant risks. Many of its engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of its clients’ businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. The Company’s failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations in the performance of the Company’s services could result in a material adverse change to the client’s operations and therefore could give rise to claims against the Company or damage its reputation, adversely affecting its business, results of operations and financial condition. Economic Downturn Spending on IT consulting services is largely discretionary and may decline during economic downturns when the Company’s clients are operating under reduced budgets. A significant portion of the Company’s revenues is derived from sales to customers in the financial services industry. Many of the Company’s major customers in the financial services industry have come under significant pressure as a result of recent developments in the financial markets. The business, operating results and financial condition of the Company may be materially harmed if the downturn in the financial markets persists or worsens and these clients engage the Company for fewer projects or terminate ongoing projects. Billing Margins The Company’s ability to maintain billing margins is uncertain. It derives revenues primarily from the hourly billing of consultants’ services and, to a lesser extent, from fixed-price projects. Its most significant cost is project personnel cost, which consists of consultant salaries and benefits as well as costs of subcontractors. Thus, its financial performance is primarily based upon billing margin (billable hourly rate less the consultant’s hourly cost) and personnel utilization rates (number of days worked by a consultant during a semi-monthly billing cycle divided by the number of billing days in that cycle). The gross margin for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 remained at approximately the same level despite a decrease in consultant utilization rate (75% in 2007, 88% in 2006 and 89% in 2005), but there can be no assurance that gross margins will not decline if consultant utilization rates continue to decline. There also can be no assurance that the Company’s cost containment and workforce rationalization effects will provide positive results in the future. In addition, during the past three years the Company’s clients have been adverse to increases in any costs of the Company’s services and have employed Vendor Management Organizations as a means of monitoring and controlling these costs which have reduced and may continue to impact the Company’s margins. Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results The Company’s quarterly results of operations are variable. Variations in revenues and results of operations occur from time to time as a result of a number of factors including the size and significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter, consultant hiring and utilization rates, the timing of corporate expenditures and the number of business days in a quarter. The timing of revenues is difficult to forecast because the sales cycle can be relatively long and may depend on such factors as the size and scope of assignments and general economic conditions. A variation in the number of client assignments or the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments, particularly at or near 6 Table of Contents the end of any quarter, can cause significant variations in results of operations from quarter to quarter and can result in losses to it. In addition, the Company’s engagements generally are terminable by the client at any time without penalties. Although the number of consultants can be adjusted to correspond to the number of active projects, the Company must maintain a sufficient number of senior consultants to oversee existing client projects and to assist its sales force in securing new client assignments. An unexpected reduction in the number of assignments could result in excess capacity of consultants and increased selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues. The Company has also experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in the quarterly results of its software sales as a result of the variable size and timing of individual license transactions, competitive conditions in the industry, changes in customer budgets, and the timing of the in troduction of new products or product enhancements. In the event that its results of operations for any period are below the expectation of market analysts and investors, the market price of its shares of common stock could be adversely affected. Competition The market for information technology services includes a large number of competitors, is subject to rapid change and is highly competitive. Its primary competitors include participants from a variety of market segments, including the current and former consulting divisions of the ‘‘Big Four’’ accounting firms, interactive advertising agencies, web development companies, systems consulting and implementation firms, application software firms and management consulting firms. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources and name recognition than the Company. In addition, the Company competes with its clients’ internal resources, particularly when these resources represent a fixed cost to the client. In the future, such competition may impose additional pricing pressures on the Company or could materially and adversely effect the ability of the Company to maintain its existing client s or to develop new clients in a manner which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will compete successfully with its existing competitors or with any new competitors. Rapid Industry Change The Company’s business is subject to rapid technological change and is dependent on new solutions. Its success will depend in part on its ability to develop information technology solutions to meet client expectations, and offer software services and solutions that keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and a continuing shift to outsourced solutions by clients. The Company cannot assure you that it will be successful in adequately addressing the outsourcing market or other information technology developments on a timely basis or that, if addressed, the Company will be successful in the marketplace. The Company also cannot assure you that products or technologies developed by others will not render its services uncompetitive or obsolete. Its failure to address these developments could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. Managing Growth The Company may have difficulty managing future growth. Its expansion is dependent upon, among other things, • its ability to identify suitable new geographic markets with sufficient demand for its services; • its ability to hire and retain skilled management, consultants (as employees or independent contractors), marketing, customer service and other personnel; and • its ability to successfully manage growth, including monitoring operations, controlling costs and maintaining effective quality and service controls. If the Company’s management is unable to manage growth or new employees or consultants are unable to achieve anticipated performance levels, its business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents Capital Requirements The Company may be unable to meet its future capital requirements. The Company has a line of credit up to $1.0 million with Keltic Financial Partners, LP (‘‘Keltic’’) based on the Company’s eligible accounts receivable balances. Net availability at December 31, 2007 was approximately $1.0 million. The Keltic line of credit expires on June 27, 2009. The Company may require additional financing in the future in order to continue to implement its product and services development, marketing and other corporate programs. The Company may not be able to obtain such financing or obtain it on acceptable terms. Without additional financing, the Company may be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of its product and services development, marketing and other corporate programs. If the Company is able to obtain such financing, the terms may contain restrictive covenants that might negatively affect it s shares of common stock, such as limitations on payments of dividends or, in the case of a debt financing, reduced earnings due to interest expenses. Any further issuance of equity securities would likely have a dilutive effect on the holders of its shares of common stock. The Company’s business, operating results and financial condition may be materially harmed if the Company cannot obtain additional financing. Volatility of Stock Price The Company’s common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to variations in quarterly results of operations and other factors, including acquisitions, technological innovations and general economic or market conditions. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume trading volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market price of many technology companies that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. This volatility may adversely affect the market price of its common stock. Additionally, the Company’s stock is infrequently traded on the NASDAQ Capital MarketCM where it is listed, which further increases the stock’s volatility, and there can be no assurance that a trading market for t he common stock will be sustained. Intellectual Property Rights The Company’s business includes the development of custom software applications in connection with specific client engagements. Ownership of such software is generally assigned to the client. The Company relies upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secret, copyright and trademark laws to protect its proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom the Company license intellectual property. The Company enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees and limits distribution of proprietary information. However, there can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that the Company will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce its intellectual property rights. The Company is subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual p roperty rights. Any such claims could require the Company to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property or acquire licenses to the intellectual property which is the subject of the asserted infringement. Effective as of January 30, 2007, the Company changed its name from The A Consulting Team, Inc. to Helios & Matheson North America Inc. The name change reflects the Company’s desire to develop long term, mutually beneficial opportunities both in the United States and globally through its association with Helios & Matheson Parent, an information technology services organization with corporate headquarters in Chennai, India and the owner of approximately 52% of the Company’s outstanding common stock. Helios & Matheson Parent has granted the Company a non-exclusive right to use the name ‘‘Helios & Matheson’’ and related trademarks, service names and service marks. Helios & Matheson Parent has the right to terminate the Company’s right to use such name and related trademarks and service marks upon each of the following events: (i) the Company duly and properly effectuates a change of the Company ’s corporate name which change is not consented to or approved by Helios & Matheson Parent; (ii) the Company consummates a business combination or merger, pursuant to which the Company is not the surviving corporation, or the Company consummates a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent or approval of Helios & Matheson Parent and (iii) the Company files, 8 Table of Contents or becomes a debtor subject to, a bankruptcy proceeding which proceeding or filing was not commenced by Helios & Matheson Parent or consented to by Helios & Matheson Parent. The Company could be materially adversely affected if Helios & Matheson Parent terminated the Company’s rights to use such name and the related trademarks and service marks as the Company would be forced to change its name, commence marketing under a new name and would not be able to enjoy the benefits of the Company’s marketing efforts under the name Helios & Matheson. The Company is reliant upon Helios & Matheson Parent to protect the Helios & Matheson’s trademarks, trade names, service marks and service names. NASDAQ Controlled Company Helios & Matheson Parent holds approximately 52% of the voting power of the Company, and the Board of Directors has determined that the Company is a ‘‘controlled company’’ for the purposes of NASDAQ listing requirements. Therefore, the Company is not subject to NASDAQ listing requirements that, among other things, would otherwise require that the Board of Directors have a majority of independent directors and that the compensation of officers and the nomination of directors be determined in accordance with specific rules, generally requiring determinations by committees comprised solely of independent directors or in meetings at which only the independent directors are present. Accordingly, the stockholders of the Company will not have the same protection afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ governance requirements. 