Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, and all the other information included in this Annual Report before you decide to invest in our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results and could result in a loss of your investment. There can be no assurances that we can sustain profitable operations in future periods. We reported net income of $8,010,000, $5,814,000, and $3,258,000 for the years ended March 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Our profitability during fiscal 2005 was due in part to increases in our reorder revenues and the leveraging of our general and administrative and advertising expenses. There are no assurances we will continue to generate revenues at this increased level, or that we will remain profitable during fiscal 2006 and beyond. If our operations were to cease being profitable, our liquidity in future periods would be adversely affected. We may fail to comply with various state regulations covering the dispensing of prescription pet medications. We could be subject to reprimands, sanctions, probations, fines, suspensions or the loss of one or more of our pharmacy licenses. 5 The sale and delivery of prescription pet medications is generally governed by state laws and state regulations. Since our pharmacy is located in the State of Florida, the Company is governed by the laws and regulations of the State of Florida. Each prescription pet medication sale we make is likely to be covered by the laws of the state where the customer is located. The laws and regulations relating to the sale and delivery of prescription pet medications vary from state to state, but generally require that prescription pet medications be dispensed with the authorization from a prescribing veterinarian. To the extent that we are unable to maintain our license with the Florida Board of Pharmacy as a community pharmacy, or if we do not maintain the licenses granted by other state boards, or if we become subject to actions by the FDA, or other enforcement regulators, our distribution of prescription medications to pet owners could cease, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. While we make every effort to fully comply with the applicable state rules, laws and regulations, from time to time we have been the subject of administrative complaints regarding the authorization of prescriptions prior to shipment. We cannot assure you that we will not continue to be the subject of administrative complaints in the future. We cannot guarantee you that we will not be subject to reprimand, sanctions, probations, or fines, or that one or more of our pharmacy licenses may not be suspended or revoked. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Our alternate veterinarian program was discontinued and was under investigation by the Florida Board of Pharmacy and Florida Agency for Health Care Administration, and by various other state pharmacy boards, which could reduce or eliminate our ability to verify certain prescriptions outside the State of Florida. We utilized the services of alternate veterinarians to verify certain prescriptions for animals residing outside the State of Florida. The alternate veterinarian was not the veterinarian who had actually seen the animal and may have resided in a different state than the animal. In February 2002, we voluntarily ceased the use of the alternate veterinarian program, and in March 2002, a business decision was made to enter into a settlement agreement with the Florida Board of Pharmacy. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Many of the complaints related to prescriptions verified through our alternate veterinarian program. The alternate veterinarian program used a veterinarian outside the State of Florida to verify certain prescriptions for pets outside the State of Florida. The program was not used for pets residing in the State of Florida. Future complaints may be brought against the Company by states in which this program was utilized. We are unable to assess the potential impact on our business or any future penalties that may be assessed from these or other complaints. We currently purchase a portion of our prescription and non- prescription medications from third party distributors and we are not an authorized distributor of these products. We do not have any guaranteed supply of these medications at any pre-established prices. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, the majority of our sales were attributable to sales of prescription and non-prescription medications. Historically, substantially all the major pharmaceutical manufacturers have declined to sell prescription and non- prescription pet medications directly to us. In order to assure a supply of these products, we purchase medications from various secondary sources, including a variety of domestic distributors. Our business strategy includes seeking to establish direct purchasing arrangements with major pet pharmaceutical manufacturing companies. If we are not successful in achieving this goal, we will continue to rely upon secondary sources. We cannot guarantee that if we continue to purchase prescription and non-prescription pet medications from secondary sources that we will be able to purchase an adequate supply to meet our customers' demands, or that we will be able to purchase these products at competitive prices. As these products represent a significant portion of our sales, our failure to fill customer orders for these products could adversely impact our sales. If we are forced to pay higher prices for these products to ensure an adequate supply, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to pass along to our customers any increases in the prices we pay for these medications. This inability to pass along increased prices could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to properly manage our inventory may result in excessive inventory carrying costs, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our current product line contains approximately 650 SKUs. A significant portion of our sales is attributable to products representing approximately 90 SKUs. We need to properly manage our inventory to provide an adequate supply of these products and avoid excessive inventory of the products representing the balance of the SKUs. We generally place orders for products with our suppliers based upon our internal estimates of the amounts of inventory we will need to fill future orders. These estimates may be significantly different from the actual orders we receive. In the event that subsequent orders fall short of original estimates, we may be left with excess inventory. Significant excess inventory could result in price discounts and increased inventory carrying costs. Similarly, if we fail to have an adequate supply of some SKUs, we may lose sales opportunities. We cannot guarantee that we will maintain appropriate inventory levels. Any failure on our part to maintain appropriate inventory levels may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 6 Resistance from veterinarians to authorize prescriptions could cause our sales to decrease and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Since we began our operations some veterinarians have resisted providing our customers with a copy of their pet's prescription or authorizing the prescription to our pharmacy staff, thereby effectively preventing us from filling such prescriptions under state law. Sales of prescription medications represented approximately 30% of our sales for the fiscal year. Although veterinarians in some states are required by law to provide the pet owner with this prescription information, if the number of veterinarians who refuse to authorize prescriptions should increase, our sales could decrease and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our success depends in part on the willingness of consumers to purchase pet medications from us. If we do not succeed in changing consumer-purchasing patterns, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The direct marketing of prescription and non-prescription pet medications and health and nutritional supplements is relatively new. Our success will depend upon our ability to engage consumers who have historically purchased pet medications and health and nutritional supplements from veterinarians. We may not be able to convert a large number of these pet owners to our customers. In order for us to be successful, many of these consumers must be willing to utilize new ways of buying these products. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in shifting these consumer purchasing patterns away from veterinarians to us. If we do not attract consumers to purchase these products from us, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In the past we have purchased medications from international distributors and we did not always know if those distributors had the authority of the manufacturer to sell the products in the United States. As a result, we may be subject to future civil or administrative actions regarding those products. During fiscal 2002, a business decision was made to discontinue purchasing any product from international distributors. We had purchased a portion of our prescription and non-prescription medications from international distributors in the past. These medications may have been trademarked and/or copyrighted products manufactured in foreign countries or in the United States and sold by the manufacturer to foreign distributors. Some of the prescription and non-prescription medications may have been manufactured by entities, particularly foreign licensees, who are not the licensors or owners of the trademarks or copyrights for the medications. From time to time, United States trademark and copyright holders, their licensees, trade associations and the United States Customs Service have brought forth litigation or administrative agency proceedings in an attempt to halt the importation or sale of trademarked and/or copyrighted products. The courts remain divided on the extent to which trademark, copyright or other laws, rules, regulations or decisions may restrict the importation or sales of this merchandise without the consent of the trademark or copyright owner. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Significant portions of our sales are made to residents of seven states. If we should lose our pharmacy license in one or more of these states, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. While we ship pet medications to customers in all 50 states, approximately 51% of our sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 were made to customers located in the states of California, Florida, Texas, New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Georgia. If for any reason our license to operate a pharmacy in one or more of those states should be suspended or revoked, or if it is not renewed, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We face significant competition from veterinarians and traditional and online retailers and may not be able to profitably compete with them. We compete directly and indirectly with veterinarians for the sale of pet medications and other health products. Veterinarians hold a competitive advantage over us because many pet owners may find it more convenient or preferable to purchase these products directly from their veterinarians at the time of an office visit. We also compete directly and indirectly with both online and traditional retailers of pet medications and health and nutritional supplements. Both online and traditional retailers may hold a competitive advantage over us because of longer operating histories, established brand names, greater resources and an established customer base. Online retailers may have a competitive advantage over us because of established affiliate relationships to drive traffic to their website. Traditional retailers may hold a competitive advantage over us because pet owners may prefer to purchase these products from a store instead of online or through catalog or telephone methods. In order to effectively compete in the future, we may be required to offer promotions and other incentives, which may result in lower operating margins or increased operating losses. We also face a significant challenge from our competitors forming alliances with each other, such as those between online and brick and mortar retailers. These relationships may enable both their retail and online stores to negotiate better 7 pricing and better terms from suppliers by aggregating the demand for products and negotiating volume discounts which could be a competitive disadvantage to us. The content of our website could expose us to various kinds of liability, which, if prosecuted successfully, could negatively impact our business. Because we post product information and other content on our website, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright infringement, patent infringement, trademark infringement, defamation and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials we post. Various claims have been brought, and sometimes successfully prosecuted, against Internet content distributors. We could be exposed to liability with respect to the unauthorized duplication of content or unauthorized use of other parties' proprietary technology. Although we maintain general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type, or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance, or is in excess of insurance coverage, could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright laws and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property rights. These afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy our non- prescription private label generic equivalents, when and if developed, as well as aspects of our sales formats, or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, including the technology used to operate our website, our content and our trademarks. Litigation or proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and domain names, and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation or adverse priority proceeding could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and could seriously harm our business and operating results. Third parties may also claim infringement by us with respect to past, current or future technologies. We expect that participants in our markets will be increasingly involved in infringement claims as the number of services and competitors in our industry segment grows. Any claim, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause service upgrade delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to protect our Internet domain names or to prevent others from using names that are confusingly similar, our business may be adversely impacted. Our Internet domain names, www.1800petmeds.com, -------------------- www.1888petmeds.com, www.petmedexpress.com, and www.petmeds.com - ------------------- --------------------- --------------- are critical to our brand recognition and our overall success. If we are unable to protect these domain names, our competitors could capitalize on our brand recognition. We are aware of substantially similar domain names, including www.petmed.com, used by competitors. Governmental agencies - -------------- and their designees generally regulate the acquisition and maintenance of domain names. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries has changed, and may undergo further change in the near future. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, we may not be able to protect our own domain names, or prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are confusingly similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our domain names. Since all of our operations are housed in a single location, we are more susceptible to business interruption in the event of damage to or disruptions in our facility. Our headquarters and distribution center are located in the same building in South Florida, and all of our shipments of products to our customers are made from this sole distribution center. We have no present plans to establish any additional distribution centers or offices. Because we consolidate our operations in one location, we are more susceptible to power and equipment failures, and business interruptions in the event of fires, floods and other natural disasters than if we had additional locations. Furthermore, because we are located in South Florida, which is a hurricane-sensitive area, we are particularly susceptible to the risk of damage to, or total destruction of, our headquarters and distribution center and surrounding transportation infrastructure caused by a hurricane. We cannot assure you that we are adequately insured to cover the amount of any losses relating to any of these potential events, business interruptions resulting from damage to or destruction of our headquarters and distribution center or power and equipment failures relating to our call center or websites; or interruptions or disruptions to major transportation infrastructure or other events that do not occur on our premises. 8 A portion of our sales are seasonal and our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate. Because our operating results are difficult to predict, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. The majority of our product sales are affected by the seasons, due to the seasonality of mainly heartworm and flea and tick medications. Seasonality trends are divided into percentage of sales by quarter. For the quarters ended June 30, 2004, September 30, 2004, December 31, 2004, and March 31, 2005 Company sales were 33%, 26%, 19%, and 22%, respectively. In addition to the seasonality of our sales, our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are out of our control. Factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate include: - Our ability to obtain new customers at a reasonable cost, retain existing customers, or encourage reorders; - Our ability to increase the number of visitors to our website, or our ability to convert visitors to our website into customers; - The mix of medications and other pet products sold by us; - Our ability to manage inventory levels; - Our ability to adequately maintain, upgrade and develop our website, the systems that we use to process customers' orders and payments, or our computer network; - Increased competition within our market niche; - Price competition; - Increases in the cost of advertising; - The amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our product line or operations; and - Disruption of our toll-free telephone service, technical difficulties, systems and Internet outages or slowdowns. Any change in one or more of these factors could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Our stock price fluctuates from time to time and may fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, and could subject us to litigation, which may result in you suffering a loss on your investment. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: quarterly variations in operating results; changes in accounting treatments or principles; announcements by us or our competitors of new products and services offerings, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic relationships; additions or departures of key personnel; any future sales of our common stock or other securities; stock market price and volume fluctuations of publicly-traded companies; and general political, economic and market conditions. In some future quarter our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may be the targets of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. The interest of our controlling stockholder could conflict with those of our other stockholders. Tricon Holdings, LLC, ("Tricon") our principal stockholder, owns and controls 23.3% of our voting securities. This stockholder is able to influence the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning: the election of directors; amendments to our charter and by- laws; and the approval of significant corporate transactions such as a merger or sale of our assets. This controlling influence could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, even if many of our stockholders believe it is in their best interest. We may issue additional shares of preferred stock that could defer a change of control or dilute the interests of our common stockholders. Our charter documents could defer a takeover effort which could inhibit your ability to receive an acquisition premium for your shares. Our charter permits our Board of Directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Currently there are 2,500 shares of our Convertible Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. This leaves 4,997,500 shares of preferred stock available for issuance at the discretion of our Board of Directors. These shares, if issued, could 9 contain dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the rights of our common stockholders and which could also be utilized, under some circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Florida law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if many of our stockholders believe it is in their best interest. 