Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Company We have historically incurred operating losses and we expect that these losses will continue. We have historically incurred substantial operating losses due to our research and development activities and expect these losses to continue for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $84.5 million. Our fiscal year 2005, 2004 and 2003 net losses were $59.1 million, $12.0 million, and $4.5 million, respectively. We expect to continue research and development activities. We will expend significant amounts on research and development programs, including those relating to PA-457. The PA-457 clinical trial program is being conducted in various geographic locations, and clinical studies may occur in other geographic markets. In addition, we expect that PA-457 will progress to late stage Phase 2 trials in 2006. In parallel to the clinical development activities, we would increase expenditures for pre-commercial activities, such as planning for, and preliminary investments in, the scale-up of manufacturing of the drug, and marketing 13 Table of Contents and distribution of the drug both in the United States and internationally. We also plan to evaluate potential development and commercial collaborations with strategic partners, which may fund a portion of the late stage clinical development of the drug. These activities will take time and expense, both to identify the best partners and reach agreement on terms, and to negotiate and sign definitive agreements. We will actively seek new financing from time to time to provide financial support for new activities. However, at this time we are not able to assess the probability of success in our fundraising efforts or the terms, if any, under which we may secure financial support from strategic partners. We expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We will need additional capital in the future, but our access to such capital is uncertain. Our current resources are insufficient to fund all of our planned development and commercialization efforts. As of December 31, 2005, we had cash on hand of approximately $87.1 million. During the fourth quarter, we closed a secondary public offering on October 12, 2005, raising approximately $81.0 million in net proceeds, and issued 8.25 million shares of our common stock. We believe that our cash resources are adequate to meet our requirements into 2008. Our capital needs will depend on many factors, including our research and development activities, the scope of our clinical trial program, the timing of regulatory approval for our products under development and the successful commercialization of our products. Our needs may also depend on the magnitude and scope of these activities, the progress and the level of success in our clinical trials, the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights, competing technological and market developments, changes in or terminations of existing collaboration and licensing arrangements, the establishment of collaboration and licensing arrangements and the cost of manufacturing scale-up and development of marketing activities, if undertaken by us. We do not have committed external sources of funding. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to: • delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our development programs; • obtain funds through arrangements with collaboration partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to retain in order to develop or commercialize them ourself; • license rights to technologies, product candidates or products on terms that are less favorable to us than might otherwise be available; or • seek a buyer for all or a portion of our business, or wind down our operations and liquidate our assets. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional stock, further dilution to our stockholders may result, and new investors could have rights superior to existing stockholders. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our products, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Our success will depend on the products, which we are and will be developing, but may be unable to commercialize due to numerous factors, including regulatory requirements on both us and our customers. The success of our business will depend on our successful development and commercialization of our products. Successful commercialization of our products under development depends, in significant part, on our ability to: • complete their development in a timely fashion; • demonstrate their safety and efficacy in clinical trials; • obtain and maintain patents or other proprietary protections; • obtain required regulatory approvals; • implement efficient, commercial-scale manufacturing processes; 14 Table of Contents • obtain approval for reimbursement under health care systems; and • establish and maintain development, sales, marketing, and distribution collaborations. PA-457 is our only product currently in active clinical trials. PA-457 has not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, for marketing in the United States or by regulatory authorities in other countries. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is generally lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Satisfaction of pre-market approval or other regulatory requirements of the FDA, or similar requirements of non-United States regulatory agencies, typically takes several years, depending upon the type, complexity, novelty and intended purpose of the product. During fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, we spent approximately $19.8 million, $11.1 million, and $4.5 million on research and development, respectively. To obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our product candidates, we or our collaborators must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective. We or our collaborators may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time for various reasons, including regulatory actions by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies, actions by institutional review boards, failure to comply with good clinical practice requirements and concerns regarding health risks to the subjects of clinical tests. We recently discontinued our development of a product, the INACTINE™ Pathogen Reduction System, in Phase 3 clinical trials due to concerns that we would not be successful in addressing certain clinical and regulatory considerations in an economically feasible manner within a commercially reasonable time frame. Delays in our clinical testing or approval from government authorities will lengthen our product development time, increase our product development costs and may impair our ability to commercialize our products and allow competitors to bring products to market before we do. For example, in 2005 we announced a delay in the initiation of our Phase 2b clinical trial for PA-457 from the fourth quarter of 2005, as previously planned, until the first half of 2006. This delay resulted from an FDA request that PA-457 should be evaluated in two drug interaction studies prior to initiation of Phase 2b, to study the possible effects of co-administration of the drug with ritonavir or atazanavir. The FDA recommendation was based on a recent FDA consensus related to drugs that are metabolized by a process known as glucuronidation, like PA-457. We have completed dosing in the two studies recommended by the FDA and are completing analysis of the data. Even if our products receive approval for commercial sale, their manufacture, storage, marketing and distribution are and will be subject to extensive and continuing regulation in the United States by the federal government, especially the FDA, and state and local governments. The failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action, including, without limitation, withdrawal of approval, which would harm our business. Later discovery of problems with our products may result in additional restrictions on the product, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Regulatory authorities may also require post-marketing testing, which can involve significant expenses. Additionally, governments may impose new regulations, which could further delay or preclude regulatory approval of our products or result in significantly increased compliance costs. In similar fashion to the FDA, foreign regulatory authorities require demonstration of product quality, safety and efficacy prior to granting authorization for product registration, which allows for distribution of the product for commercial sale. International organizations, such as the World Health Organization, and foreign government agencies, including those for the Americas, Middle East, Europe, and Asia and the Pacific, have laws, regulations and guidelines for reporting and evaluating the data on safety, quality and efficacy of new drug products. Although most of these laws, regulations and guidelines are very similar, each of the individual nations reviews all of the information available on the new drug product and makes an independent determination for product registration. We cannot assure you that our efforts to commercialize PA-457, which is still in Phase 2 clinical trials, will succeed. PA-457 is our only product currently in active clinical development. 15 Table of Contents PA-457 is still in Phase 2 clinical trials and involves a high degree of development, technical, regulatory and other risks. The results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials conducted by us do not ensure that results obtained in later-stage clinical trials of PA-457 will be satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Completion of clinical trials may also be delayed by slower than anticipated patient enrollment, negative or inconclusive clinical results or other adverse circumstances occurring during the clinical trials. Therefore, we cannot ensure that clinical trials will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain required marketing approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Positive results from preclinical studies or early clinical trials should not be relied upon as evidence that later or larger-scale clinical trials will succeed. Initial clinical trials of PA-457 have been conducted only in small numbers of patients for short periods of dosing that may not fully represent the diversity present in larger populations infected with HIV or the results of long-term drug administration. Therefore, the limited results we obtained may not predict results from more prolonged studies in larger numbers of patients drawn from more diverse populations. These initial trials were not designed to assess the long-term efficacy of PA-457. We will be required to demonstrate through larger-scale clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in a diverse population before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. There is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials. If PA-457 or any other product candidate fails to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in any clinical trial, we would experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon, development of, that product candidate. If we delay or abandon our development efforts related to PA-457, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable, and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged, each of which would cause the stock price to decrease significantly. If we fail to establish relationships with strategic collaborators and distributors, we may be unable to market our products. We intend to pursue strategic collaborations as a possible way to obtain development, sales, marketing and distribution support and financial support in the development of our products. We may require marketing and distribution partners for the commercialization of our products. If we fail to develop new strategic partnerships for these purposes, the failure could delay or possibly inhibit the commercialization of our products. For example, in order to effectively market our products outside the United States, we may need to secure foreign marketing partners who have a strong presence in such foreign markets. Securing new corporate collaborators is a time-consuming process, and we cannot guarantee that the negotiations with new collaborators will yield positive results. Even if we find additional corporate collaborators to assist in the commercialization of existing or new product candidates, the terms of the arrangements may not be favorable or acceptable to us. If we do not successfully distinguish and commercialize our product candidates, we may be unable to compete successfully or to generate revenue significant to sustain our operations. The biotechnology industry, including the fields of therapeutic products to treat HIV and serious infections, is highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. Accordingly, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond quickly to such change through the development and introduction of new products. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, greater experience in conducting pre-clinical studies, clinical trials and other regulatory approval procedures, as well as in marketing their products. Major competitors in the market for HIV drugs include large, publicly-traded pharmaceutical companies, such as GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Pfizer, Roche, Merck, Johnson & Johnson, and Gilead, public biotechnology companies, such as Trimeris, Incyte and Vertex, and private development stage companies, such as Achilion and Pharmasset. If we or our corporate partners commence commercial product sales, we or our corporate partners will be competing against companies with substantial and possibly greater marketing, selling and manufacturing capabilities. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to compete successfully against currently existing and future alternatives to our product candidates and systems, and competitors who compete directly with us in the pathogen reduction industry will depend, in part, on our ability to: • attract and retain skilled scientific and research personnel; • develop technologically superior products; • develop competitively priced products; • obtain patent or other required regulatory approvals for our products; • be early entrants to the market; and • manufacture, market and sell our products, independently or through collaborations. Third-party reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to commercialize and sell our products and services. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products depends in part on the extent to which appropriate levels of reimbursement for our products and related treatments are obtained from government authorities, private health insurers, third party payers, and other organizations, such as managed care organizations, or MCOs. Any failure by doctors, hospitals and other users of our products or systems to obtain appropriate levels of reimbursement could adversely affect our ability to sell these products and systems. Federal legislation, enacted in December 2003, has altered the way in which physician-administered drug programs covered by Medicare are reimbursed, generally leading to lower reimbursement levels. The new legislation has also added an outpatient prescription drug benefit to Medicare, effective January 2006. In the interim, the United States Congress has established a discount drug card program for Medicare beneficiaries. Both benefits will be provided through private entities, which will attempt to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. These negotiations may increase pressures to lower prices. On the other hand, the drug benefit may increase the volume of pharmaceutical drug purchases, offsetting at least in part these potential price discounts. While the new law specifically prohibits the United States government from interfering in price negotiations between manufacturers and Medicare drug plan sponsors, some members of Congress are pursuing legislation that would permit de facto price controls on prescription drugs. In addition, the law triggers, for congressional consideration, cost containment measures for Medicare in the event Medicare cost increases exceed a certain level. These cost containment measures could include limitations on prescription drug prices. This legislation could adversely impact our ability to commercialize any of our products successfully. Significant uncertainty exists about the reimbursement status of newly approved medical products and services. Reimbursement in the United States or foreign countries may not be available for any of our products, reimbursement granted may not be maintained, and limits on reimbursement available from third-party payers may reduce the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, our products. We anticipate that we will need to work with a variety of organizations to lobby government agencies for improved reimbursement policies for our products. However, we cannot guarantee that such lobbying efforts will take place or that they will ultimately be successful. Our ability to successfully integrate the operations of V.I. Technologies, Inc. and Panacos following our recent merger is uncertain. V.I. Technologies, Inc. and Panacos, each of which previously operated independently, are in the process of integrating their businesses following the merger that was effected in March 2005. Problems in integrating purchasing and financial reporting could result in control issues, including unplanned costs. Diversion of management attention could result in delays in clinical programs. The combination of the two companies’ organizations may result in greater competition for resources and elimination of research and development programs that might otherwise be successfully completed. Management may have its attention diverted while 17 Table of Contents trying to integrate the two companies, or consolidate or rationalize the two facilities. Our two facilities are located in Watertown, Massachusetts and Gaithersburg, Maryland. Such diversion of management’s attention or difficulties in the transition process could have an adverse impact on us. Virtually all of the employees in the merged company work at either the Watertown facility or the Gaithersburg facility. The management team of the combined company has experience in attracting and retaining the technical personnel that will represent the majority of employees in the combined company. However, no assurance can be given that the combined company will succeed in its efforts to integrate the combined companies’ operations successfully. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies, to obtain and enforce patents, to protect trade secrets, and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. We have patents and patent applications that claim critical technologies, including new chemical compounds. Currently, our patent estate in antiviral therapeutics includes nine issued U.S. patents and eleven pending U.S. applications. Each of the U.S. applications and patents has one or more corresponding foreign applications or patents. In addition, we have exclusive licenses to patents and patent applications, including certain jointly owned patents, which claim technologies and compounds critical to our present business endeavors. We also seek to protect our proprietary technology, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and contractors. Patents, pending patent applications and licensed patents may not afford adequate protection against competitors, and any pending patent applications now or hereafter filed by or licensed to us may result in patents not being issued or may result in the issuance of patents having narrowed claim scope in relation to the originally filed applications. In addition, certain aspects of our technology rely on patented inventions developed using university or United States government resources. The United States government or universities may have certain rights, as defined by law or applicable agreements, in such patents, and may choose to exercise such rights. Under the terms of a license agreement with the University of North Carolina, or UNC, we are an exclusive licensee of certain technologies, including patents and patent applications that relate to certain of our product candidates, including PA-457. This license agreement imposes various development, commercialization and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these and other requirements, our license could convert from exclusive to non-exclusive or terminate entirely. Currently, we are in compliance with the terms of the license agreement, and we do not have any reason to believe that the license may be converted from exclusive status to non-exclusive status or be terminated. We cannot be certain that UNC’s, or any other third party’s, confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others, disputes may arise as to the rights related to or resulting from the use of such intellectual property. In our agreements with contractors, we seek warranties that the intellectual property rights of third parties will not be infringed. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty their enforceability. We are a party to various license agreements that give us exclusive rights to use specified technologies applicable to research, development and commercialization of our product candidates, including PA-457. The agreements pursuant to which such technology is used permit the licensors to terminate agreements in the event that certain conditions are not met. If these conditions are not met and the agreements are terminated, our product development, research and commercialization efforts may be altered or delayed. Patents or patent applications, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Furthermore, our competitors may obtain patent protection for other technology that could limit our ability to use our technology or commercialize products that we may develop. 18 Table of Contents Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued or licensed to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how, or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation, opposition or interference proceedings could result in substantial additional costs and diversion of management focus. If we are ultimately unable to protect our technology, trade secrets or know-how, we may be unable to operate profitably. Although we have not been involved in any litigation and are not aware of any threatened litigation regarding patent issues or other intellectual property, or other related court challenges or legal actions, it is possible that we could be involved with such matters in the future. If we are unable to operate our business without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others, we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends on our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. We endeavor to follow developments in our field, and we do believe that we have freedom to operate with respect to our core technologies. To the extent that planned or potential products would infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties, we would need licenses under such patents or other intellectual property rights to continue development and marketing aspects of our products protected by those third party patents or other intellectual property rights. Any required licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we may need to design around other parties’ patents or we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. Litigation may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation, opposition or interference proceedings could result in substantial additional costs and diversion of management focus. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in defending against claims of infringement, our results of operations would be adversely effected. If we lose or are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to develop our products and technology. We are highly dependent on the members of our scientific and management staff. In particular, we depend on Dr. Samuel K. Ackerman, as our President and Chief Executive Officer. Although we believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining our employees, we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms, if at all, given the competition for such personnel among other companies and research and academic institutions. If we lose an executive officer or certain key members of our clinical or research and development staff or are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, then our ability to develop and commercialize our products and technology may be hindered. We have not purchased any key-man life insurance. We use and generate hazardous materials in our research activities. Defending against any claims relating to the improper handling, storage, release or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. We are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens and wastes. It is possible that we will be required in the future to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations. The research and development activities to be undertaken by us involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals that may cause cancer, volatile solvents, and biological materials, including materials infected with various viruses, including the Human Immunodeficiency Virus, Human T-Cell Lyphotrophic Virus, and Simian Immunodeficiency Virus. In addition, our operations produce, and will continue to produce, hazardous waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standard prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our 19 Table of Contents insurance limits and our cash resources. We have general liability insurance that covers our use of hazardous materials and chemicals. We have not been notified that we have been the subject of any investigation relating to the generation of hazardous materials in the past. We may face exposure to product liability claims. We may face exposure to product liability and other claims due to allegations that our products cause harm. These risks are inherent in the ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials relating to PA-457 and in the testing, and future manufacturing and marketing of, our products. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance, such insurance may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage in the future at a reasonable cost, if at all. If we are unable to obtain product liability insurance in the future at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we could be inhibited in the commercialization of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We currently have a policy covering $10 million of product liability for our clinical trials. We do not have sales of any products. The coverage will be maintained and limits reviewed from time to time as we progress to later stages of our clinical trials and as the length of the trials and the number of patients enrolled in the trials changes. Risks Relating to Our Stock Our stock price is volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at a profit. We first publicly issued common stock on June 11, 1998 at $120.00 (as adjusted for our March 14, 2005 1:10 reverse stock split) per share in our initial public offering. Between June 11, 1998 and March 1, 2006 the closing sale price has ranged from a high of $176.25 per share to a low of $2.49 per share. The market price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: • quarterly fluctuations in results of operations; • the announcement of new products or services by us or competitors; • sales of common stock by existing stockholders or the perception that these sales may occur; • adverse judgments or settlements obligating us to pay damages; • negative publicity; • loss of key personnel; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; and • clinical trial or regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries. In addition, overall stock market volatility has often significantly affected the market prices of securities for reasons unrelated to a company’s operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has been commenced against companies that have experienced periods of volatility in the price of their stock. Securities litigation initiated against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could lead to the diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our development programs and our financial position. We have a large number of authorized but unissued shares of common stock, which our management may issue without further stockholder approval, thereby causing dilution of your holdings of our common stock. As of March 1, 2006 there are approximately 499.9 million shares of authorized but unissued shares of our common stock. Our management will continue to have broad discretion to issue shares of our common stock in a range of transactions, including capital-raising transactions, mergers, acquisitions, for anti-takeover purposes, 20 Table of Contents and in other transactions, without obtaining stockholder approval, unless stockholder approval is required for a particular transaction under the rules of Nasdaq, Delaware law, or other applicable laws. We currently have no specific plans to issue shares of our common stock for any purpose. However, if our management determines to issue shares of our common stock from the large pool of such authorized but unissued shares for any purpose in the future without obtaining stockholder approval, your ownership position would be diluted without your further ability to vote on that transaction. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and may impair our ability to raise capital through additional offerings. We currently have outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 4.1 million shares of our common stock. The shares issuable upon exercise of these warrants have been registered for resale, and thus could be sold at any time following their issuance. These shares represent approximately 8% of the total number of shares of our common stock that are currently outstanding. Sales of these shares in the public market, or the perception that future sales of these shares could occur, could have the effect of lowering the market price of our common stock below current levels and make it more difficult for us and our shareholders to sell our equity securities in the future. Our executive officers, directors and holders of more than 5% of our common stock collectively beneficially own approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2006. Their beneficial ownership includes approximately 1.5 million shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of vested stock options that could become available for immediate resale if such options were exercised. Sale or the availability for sale of shares of common stock by stockholders could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through an offering of additional equity securities. Anti-takeover provisions may frustrate attempts to replace our current management and discourage investors from buying our common stock. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated by-laws, as well as the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, reduce the power of stockholders generally, even those with a majority of the voting power, to remove incumbent directors and to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors without the support of the incumbent directors. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated by-laws provide that stockholder action may not be effected without a duly called meeting. Our restated certificate of incorporation and restated by-laws also do not permit our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders. This effectively limits the ability of our stockholders to conduct any form of consent solicitation. Provisions of the DGCL, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated by-laws could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, control of us without approval of our Board of Directors, even if such acquisition were beneficial to other stockholders. Moreover, the provisions of the DGCL and our restated certificate of incorporation and restated by-laws relating to the removal of directors and the filling of vacancies on the Board of Directors preclude a third party from removing incumbent directors without cause and simultaneously gaining control of the Board of Directors by filling, with its own nominees, the vacancies created by removal. Such provisions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Such provisions also allow the Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock with rights superior to those of the common stock. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 