ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors that Could Affect Operating Results Statements included in Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this document that do not relate to present or historical conditions are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of that term in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and in Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Additional oral or written forward-looking statements may be made by the Company from time to time, and such statements may be included in documents that are filed with the SEC. Such forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainties that could cause results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “believes,” “forecasts,” “intends,” “possible,” “expects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” or “plans” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Company cautions readers that results predicted by forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those relating to the Company’s future business prospects, revenues, working capital, liquidity, capital needs, interest costs, and income are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements, due to various risks and factors, including those identified below, those identified elsewhere in this report or those identified from time to time in the Company’s filings with the SEC. Among the important factors on which such statements are based are assumptions concerning the magnitude of the ongoing economic crisis, including its impact on the Company’s customers, the anticipated growth of the information technology industry and the continued needs of current and prospective customers for the Company’s services. Operating Losses The Company has incurred operating losses in 2008 and 2007. In the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company had an operating loss of ($2,953,000), which included a goodwill impairment (non-cash) charge of $1,141,000. In the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company had an operating loss of ($1,142,000). There is no guarantee that the Company can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If revenues do not increase, or if operating expenses exceed expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, the Company will continue to experience operating losses and net losses and the Company’s results of operations and financial condition (including, potentially, its ability to continue as a going concern) will be materially and adversely affected. Going Concern and Capital Requirements The Company’s financial statements have been presented on the basis that it is a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $912,272 of cash and cash equivalents on hand as compared to $3,077,655 at December 31, 2007. The Company has a line of credit up to $1.0 million with Keltic Financial Partners, LP (“Keltic”) based on the Company’s eligible accounts receivable balances which is subject to certain financial covenants that shall apply only if the Company has any outstanding obligations to Keltic including borrowing under the facility. The Keltic line of credit, which was set to expire on June 27, 2009, has been extended through December 31, 2009 under the same terms and conditions. For the year ended December 31, 2008 the Company reported a net loss of ($2,924,000), which included a goodwill impairment (non-cash) charge of $1,141,000. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company reported a net loss of ($838,000). For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company reported net income of $852,000, which included $881,000 of net proceeds received in connection with the release of claims relating to the terminated Vanguard transaction. Additionally, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $31.2 million at December 31, 2008. Beyond December 31, 2009, there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to renew or replace its current financing upon expiration on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Based upon the Company’s reduced liquidity, net losses and accumulated deficit, the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern is dependent on the Company achieving profitable operations and or obtaining additional sources of financing. The Company may require additional financing in the future to continue to implement its product and services development, marketing and other corporate programs. If the Company is able to obtain additional debt financing, the terms of such financing could contain restrictive covenants that might negatively affect its shares of common stock, such as limitations on payments of dividends and could reduce earnings due to interest expenses. Any further issuance of equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the holders of the Company’s shares of common stock. The Company’s business, operating results and financial condition (including, potentially, its ability to continue as a going concern) may be materially harmed if the Company cannot obtain additional financing. Economic Crisis Spending on IT consulting services is largely discretionary and will decline during economic downturns when the Company’s clients are operating under reduced budgets, including during the ongoing economic crisis. A significant portion of the Company’s revenues is derived from sales to customers in the financial services, pharmaceutical and manufacturing/automotive industries. Many of the Company’s major customers in the financial services industry have come under significant financial pressure as a result of the ongoing economic crisis. The business, operating results and financial condition of the Company will be materially harmed if the current economic crisis persists or worsens and its clients engage the Company for fewer projects, or cancel, delay or terminate ongoing projects. 5 Table of Contents Dependence on Limited Number of Clients The Company derives a significant portion of its revenues from a relatively limited number of clients primarily located in the New York/New Jersey metropolitan area of the United States. The ongoing economic crisis which has particularly affected this region has had and could continue to have an adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company’s clients located there, which in turn could adversely impact the Company’s ability to collect its accounts receivable as well as its business and future growth. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company had two customers which accounted for approximately 18% and 12% of revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company had three customers which accounted for approximately 23%, 18% and 11% of revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company had four customers which accounted for approximately 21%, 14%, 10% and 10% of revenues, respectively. Besides these customers, no other customer represented greater than 10% of the Company’s revenues. In any given year, the Company’s ten most significant customers may vary based upon specific projects for those clients during that year. There can be no assurance that the Company’s significant clients will continue to engage it for additional projects or do so at the same revenue levels. Clients engage the Company on an assignment-by-assignment basis, and a client can generally terminate an assignment at any time without penalties. The loss of any significant customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. A failure of the Company to develop relationships with new customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Volatility of Stock Price The Company’s common stock is extremely illiquid, thinly traded and may be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to variations in quarterly results of operations and other factors, including acquisitions, technological innovations and general economic or market conditions. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume trading volatility especially in the past year. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market price of many technology companies that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. This volatility may adversely affect the market price of its common stock. Additionally, the Company’s stock is infrequently traded on the NASDAQ Capital MarketCM where it is listed, which further increases the stock’s volatility, and there can be no assurance that a trading market for the common stock will be sustained. NASDAQ Listing The NASDAQ Capital Market CM’s continued listing requirements include requirements both that a company maintain a minimum bid price of $1 and that the market value of its publicly held shares (the market value of its shares not held by officers, directors or beneficial owners of more than 10% of the company’s total shares outstanding) be at least $1,000,000. At the close of business on March 27, 2009, the bid price for a share of the Company’s stock was $0.60, and the Company believes the value of its publicly held shares was approximately $691,297 based upon the public filings of our officers, directors and beneficial owners. While The NASDAQ Capital Market CM has temporarily suspended both these continued listing requirements thru April 17, 2009, due to the recent turmoil in the financial markets, if upon the expiration of the temporary suspension, the Company is unable to meet the continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market CM, then the Company could face being delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market CM. The NASDAQ Capital Market CM has applied to the SEC to further extend this suspension thru July 19, 2009. If the Company’s common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market CM, the market liquidity of the Company’s common stock will likely be significantly limited, which would reduce stockholders’ ability to sell the Company’s common stock. Additionally any such delisting could harm the Company’s ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on acceptable terms, if at all, and may result in the loss of confidence in the Company’s financial stability by suppliers, customers and employees. In addition, a delisting would likely increase the price volatility of the Company’s shares of common stock and have a material adverse impact on the price of the Company’s shares of common stock. 6 Table of Contents Project Risk The Company’s projects entail significant risks. Many of its engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of its clients’ businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. The Company’s failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations in the performance of the Company’s services could result in a material adverse change to the client’s operations and therefore could give rise to claims against the Company or damage its reputation, adversely affecting its business, results of operations and financial condition. Billing Margins The Company’s ability to maintain billing margins is uncertain. The Company derives revenues primarily from the hourly billing of consultants’ services and, to a lesser extent, from fixed-price projects. Its most significant cost is project personnel cost, which consists of consultant salaries and benefits as well as costs of subcontractors. Thus, the Company’s financial performance is primarily based upon billing margin (billable hourly rate less the consultant’s hourly cost) and personnel utilization rates (number of days worked by a consultant during a semi-monthly billing cycle divided by the number of billing days in that cycle). The gross margin for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was 22.8%, 29.5% and 29.2%, respectively. The decline in gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2008 is primarily a result of an increase in lower margin time and material engagements, including an increase in third party placements. Consultant utilization rate for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was 76%, 75% and 88%. There can be no assurance that the Company’s cost containment and workforce rationalization efforts will provide positive results in the future. In addition, during the past three years the Company’s clients have been adverse to increases in any costs of the Company’s services and have employed Vendor Management Organizations as a means of monitoring and controlling these costs which have reduced and may continue to impact the Company’s margins. Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results The Company’s quarterly results of operations are variable. Variations in revenues and results of operations occur from time to time as a result of a number of factors including the size and significance of client engagements, consultant hiring and utilization rates, the timing of corporate expenditures and the number of business days in a quarter. Initiation or completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in results of operations from quarter to quarter. In addition, the Company’s engagements generally are terminable by the client at any time without penalties. Although the number of consultants can be adjusted to correspond to the number of active projects, the Company must maintain a sufficient number of senior consultants to oversee existing client projects and to assist its sales force in securing new client assignments. An unexpected reduction in the number of assignments could result in excess capacity of consultants and increased selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues. The Company has also experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in the quarterly results of its software sales as a result of the variable size and timing of individual license transactions, competitive conditions in the industry, changes in customer budgets, and the timing of the introduction of new products or product enhancements. In the event that the Company’s results of operations for any period are below the expectation of investors, the market price of the Company’s shares of common stock could be adversely affected. Competition The market for IT consulting services is intensely competitive, is affected by rapid technological advances and includes a large number of competitors. The Company’s competitors include the current or former consulting divisions of the “Big Four” accounting firms, major offshore outsourcing companies, systems consulting and implementation firms, application software development firms, management consulting firms, divisions of large hardware and software companies, and niche providers of IT services. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company. In addition, the Company competes with its clients’ internal resources, particularly when these resources represent an existing cost to the client. Competition imposes significant pricing pressures on the Company. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors in the IT services market include breadth of services offered, industry and technology knowledge, expertise, cost competitiveness, quality of service and responsiveness to client needs. A critical component of the Company’s ability to compete in the marketplace is its ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain skilled professionals. 7 Table of Contents Rapid Industry Change The Company’s business is subject to rapid technological change and is dependent on new solutions. The Company’s success will depend in part on its ability to develop information technology solutions to meet client expectations, and offer software services and solutions that keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. The Company cannot assure investors that it will be successful in adequately addressing information technology developments on a timely basis or that, if addressed, the Company will be successful in the marketplace. The Company also cannot assure investors that products or technologies developed by others will not render its services uncompetitive or obsolete. The Company’s failure to address these developments could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. Managing Growth The Company may have difficulty managing future growth. Its expansion is dependent upon, among other things, • its ability to identify suitable new geographic markets with sufficient demand for its services; • its ability to hire and retain skilled management, consultants (as employees or independent contractors), marketing, customer service and other personnel; and • its ability to successfully manage growth, including monitoring operations, controlling costs and maintaining effective quality and service controls. If the Company’s management is unable to manage growth or new employees or consultants are unable to achieve anticipated performance levels, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Intellectual Property Rights The Company relies upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secret, copyright and trademark laws to protect its proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom the Company license intellectual property, but there can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that the Company will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce its intellectual property rights. In addition, the Company is subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any such claims could require the Company to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property or acquire licenses to the intellectual property which is the subject of the asserted infringement. Effective as of January 30, 2007, the Company changed its name from The A Consulting Team, Inc. to Helios & Matheson North America Inc. The name change reflects the Company’s desire to develop long term, mutually beneficial opportunities both in the United States and globally through its association with Helios & Matheson Parent, an information technology services organization with corporate headquarters in Chennai, India and the owner of approximately 52% of the Company’s outstanding common stock. Helios & Matheson Parent has granted the Company a non-exclusive right to use the name “Helios & Matheson” and related trademarks, service names and service marks. Helios & Matheson Parent has the right to terminate the Company’s right to use such name and related trademarks and service marks upon each of the following events: (i) the Company duly and properly effectuates a change of the Company’s corporate name which change is not consented to or approved by Helios & Matheson Parent; (ii) the Company consummates a business combination or merger, pursuant to which the Company is not the surviving corporation, or the Company consummates a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent or approval of Helios & Matheson Parent and (iii) the Company files, or becomes a debtor subject to, a bankruptcy proceeding which proceeding or filing was not commenced by Helios & Matheson Parent or consented to by Helios & Matheson Parent. The Company could be materially adversely affected if Helios & Matheson Parent terminated the Company’s rights to use such name and the related trademarks and service marks as the Company would be forced to change its name, commence marketing under a new name and would not be able to enjoy the benefits of the Company’s marketing efforts under the name Helios & Matheson. Additionally, the Company is reliant upon Helios & Matheson Parent to protect the Helios & Matheson’s trademarks, trade names, service marks and service names. 8 Table of Contents The Company’s business includes the development of custom software applications in connection with specific client engagements. All ownership rights to software developed by the Company in connection with a client engagement are typically assigned to the client, such that the Company is not able to benefit commercially from additional or alternative uses of such applications. In limited situations, the Company may retain ownership or obtain a license from its client, which permits the Company or a third party to market the software for the joint benefit of the client and the Company or for the sole benefit of the Company. NASDAQ Controlled Company Helios & Matheson Parent holds approximately 52% of the voting power of the Company, and the Board of Directors has determined that the Company is a “controlled company” for the purposes of NASDAQ listing requirements. Therefore, the Company is not subject to NASDAQ listing requirements that, among other things, would otherwise require that the Board of Directors have a majority of independent directors and that the compensation of officers and the nomination of directors be determined in accordance with specific rules, generally requiring determinations by committees comprised solely of independent directors or in meetings at which only the independent directors are present. Accordingly, the stockholders of the Company will not have the same protection afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ governance requirements. 