Risk factors related to our business Our key strategic initiatives may not be successful and could fail to improve our comparable store sales and our long-term profitability As part of our key strategic initiatives designed to improve our comparable store sales and our long-term profitability, we intend to introduce a new, streamlined menu and a new bar program to reinvigorate that portion of our business, among other limitations. These steps have not yet proven their viability and are subject to additional refinement and further costs. We may find that these steps are too costly or do not produce improved customer acceptance, revenues or profitability. We cannot assure you that our new real estate strategy, which includes a Champps specific site model and smaller restaurant size, will improve the profitability and success of our new restaurants compared to our previous site selection process. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the restaurant industry The restaurant industry is highly competitive. Although we believe that our operating concept, quality of food, ambiance and overall dining experience differentiates us from competitors, we may be unable to compete effectively with new restaurant concepts or with larger, better-established competitors, which have substantially greater financial resources and operating histories than ours. 13 Table of Contents The failure of our existing or new restaurants to perform as anticipated could adversely affect our business As of July 3, 2005, we owned and operated 52 restaurants, four of which were opened within the preceding 12-month period. The results achieved by these restaurants may not be indicative of longer-term performance or the potential market acceptance of restaurants in other locations. We cannot assure you that any new restaurant we open will have similar operating results to those of prior restaurants. We anticipate that our new restaurants will take at least several months to reach our long term profitability levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants. Because of our small restaurant base, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected by the negative performance of a small number of restaurants Due to our small restaurant base, poor operating results at any one or more of our restaurants could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we locate our restaurants close to areas that have a combination of commercial office space, residential housing and high traffic areas, such as shopping malls or multi-screen movie theaters. Changes in levels of office occupancy, new or competing real estate development projects, or delays in the development of the projects where we are located may adversely affect the performance of a restaurant. In addition, our operating results achieved to date may not be indicative of our future operating results with a larger number of restaurants. The success of our restaurants depends a large part on location. There can be no assurance that current locations will continue to be attractive, as demographic patterns change. Possible declines in neighborhoods where our restaurants are located, or economic conditions surrounding those neighborhoods, could result in reduced sales in those locations. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to open new restaurants, and we may not be able to achieve our planned unit expansion Our ability to expand our operations through the opening of new restaurants is important to our future financial success. Since fiscal 1997 through fiscal 2005, we have expanded our operations from 12 company-owned restaurants in nine states to 52 company-owned restaurants in 19 states. We expect to open an additional two to four restaurants in fiscal 2006. We have experienced delays in restaurant openings from time to time and may experience delays in the future. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably. Further, we cannot assure that any restaurant we open will obtain operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants or will not adversely affect the results of other Champps restaurants in the same market. The success of our future expansion will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • identification and availability of suitable restaurant sites; • competition for restaurant sites; • negotiation of favorable lease terms; • timely development in certain cases of commercial, residential, street or highway construction near our restaurants; • management of construction and development costs of new restaurants; 14 Table of Contents • securing of required governmental approvals and permits in a timely manner, or at all; • recruitment of qualified operating personnel, particularly general managers and other restaurant managers; • competition in our markets; and • general economic conditions. In addition, we may enter new markets in which we have no operating experience. These new markets may have different demographic characteristics, competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause the new restaurants to be less successful in these new markets than in our existing markets. Future growth may strain our management, financial and other resources. For instance, our existing systems and procedures, restaurant management systems, financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources may be inadequate to support our planned expansion of new restaurants. We may not be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that the planned expansion will impose on our infrastructure and other resources. The inability to develop and construct our restaurants within budget and projected time periods will adversely affect our business and financial condition Critical to our success is our ability to construct our restaurants within budget and on a timely basis. Many factors may affect the costs associated with the development and construction of our restaurants, including: • labor disputes; • general contractor disputes; • shortages of material and skilled labor; • adverse weather conditions; • unforeseen engineering problems; • environmental problems; • construction or zoning problems; • local government regulations and approvals; and • unanticipated increases in costs, any of which could give rise to delays or cost overruns. If we are unable to develop new restaurants within anticipated budget or time periods, our revenue will not meet our expectations and pre-opening and construction costs may exceed our projections. In addition, returns on our investments may be impaired and the amount of capital available for other new restaurants may not be available. 15 Table of Contents We may require additional capital to expand our business in accordance with our growth strategy Changes in our operating plans, acceleration of our expansion plans through internal growth or acquisitions, lower than anticipated sales, increased expenses or other events may cause us to seek additional debt or equity financing on an accelerated basis. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could negatively impact our growth and other plans, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Additional debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants or financial ratios that restrict our ability to operate or grow our business. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our franchisees could take actions that could harm our business Franchisees are independent operators and are not employed by us. We provide training and support to franchisees, but any number of factors beyond our control may diminish the quality of franchised restaurant operations. Consequently, franchisees may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements or may not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. If franchisees do not operate in accordance with our standards, our image and reputation may suffer materially and system-wide sales could significantly decline. Also, the presence of franchised restaurants may limit our ability to expand in a desired market. Our operations are susceptible to changes in food availability and costs, which could adversely affect our operating results Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. We rely on SYSCO Corporation, a national distributor, as the primary supplier of our food. Any increase in distribution prices or failure of SYSCO to perform could cause our food costs to increase. There also could be a significant short-term disruption in our supply chain if SYSCO failed to meet our distribution requirements or our relationship was terminated. Further, various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, governmental regulation, production, availability and seasonality may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could negatively impact our results of operations Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of the menu items served in the Champps environment and our dining style. Shifts in consumer preferences away from our cuisine or dining style could materially and adversely affect our future profitability. In addition, our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Adverse changes in these factors could reduce guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 16 Table of Contents Health concerns relating to the consumption of our food products could negatively impact our results of operations We are subject to the risk that consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns about the consumption of particular food products. Beef and chicken are the key ingredients in many of our menu items. Negative publicity concerning food quality, illness and injury, publication of government or industry findings concerning food products served by us, or other dietary and health concerns or operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants may adversely affect demand for our food and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants. Increases in utility, insurance or other costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations Our restaurants’ operating margins are affected by fluctuations in the price of utilities such as natural gas, electricity and water. The premiums that we pay for our insurance programs, including workers’ compensation, general liability, health and directors’ and officers’ liability, may increase at any time as may the amount we pay for claims experienced under our high deductible programs. Also, our restaurants incur a number of other costs in order to operate not limited to supplies, services, banking/credit card fee and repair and maintenance costs. All of such costs may increase at any time and negatively affect our operating margins. We depend on the services of key executives and management, the loss of whom could materially harm our business Our future success significantly depends on the continued service and performance of our executive officers and key associates, such as regional directors of operation, restaurant general managers and kitchen managers. Competition for these key associates is intense. The loss of the services of members of our senior management and key associates or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could adversely harm our business until suitable replacements can be found. Litigation or assessments could have a material adverse affect on our business We are subject to complaints or allegations from current and former or prospective associates from time to time. In addition, we are subject to complaints or litigation from guests alleging discrimination, illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. We may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid, whether we are liable, or whether such allegations involve one of our franchisees or licensees. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision or result that could have a material adverse affect on our business. We are also subject to state “dram shop” laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that illegally over-served alcohol to such person. While we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, or at all. 17 Table of Contents In connection with the spin-off of DAKA in late 1997, we assumed certain contingent liabilities of DAKA and its subsidiary, Daka, Inc. (“Daka”). Under our Post-Closing Covenant Agreement with DAKA, we are responsible for certain resulting liabilities and handling the defense of these claims, including the appeals, which have previously been significant. From time-to-time, the Company and its predecessors have been party to various assessments of taxes, penalties and interest from federal, state and local agencies. We provide reserves in our financial statements for these and other matters. The approximate amounts of these reserves are reviewed periodically to determine their adequacy. Although we believe that our current reserves are adequate in light of our analyses of the potential outcomes of the matters, there can be no guarantees that we will not have to recognize additional charges as these matters are ultimately resolved. Any resulting charges could be significant. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, it could reduce our ability to capitalize on our brand names Pursuant to a Master Agreement dated February 1, 1994, we acquired the “Champps,” “Champ’s” and “Champps Americana” service marks, trademarks and trade names. Our business prospects depend, in part, on our ability to develop favorable consumer recognition of the Champps name and logo. Our trademarks could be infringed in ways that leave us without redress, such as by imitation. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, and we employ various methods to protect our concepts and recipes. However, such methods may not afford adequate protection and others could independently develop similar know-how or obtain access to our know-how, concepts and recipes. Moreover, we may face claims of infringement that could both interfere with our use of our proprietary know-how, concepts, recipes, trade secrets or trademarks or subject us to damages. Defending against such claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent us from continuing to use such proprietary information in the future. Although “Champps”, “Champ’s” and “Champps Americana” are federally registered trademarks, there are other restaurants and bars that operate under similar names. If these restaurants or bars are affected by negative publicity and consumers confuse these competitors with our Champps branded restaurants, our operating results could be adversely affected. We are subject to extensive governmental regulations including, but not limited to, the sale and serving of alcoholic beverages and wages paid to our associates that could adversely affect our operations and our ability to expand and develop our restaurants The restaurant industry is subject to various federal, state and local governmental regulations. While at this time we have been able to obtain and maintain the necessary governmental licenses, permits and approvals, the failure to maintain these licenses, permits and approvals, including food and liquor licenses, could adversely affect our operating results. Difficulties or failure in obtaining the required licenses and approvals could delay or result in our decision to cancel the opening of new restaurants. Local authorities may suspend, revoke or deny renewal of our food and liquor licenses if they determine that our conduct or facilities do not meet applicable standards or if there are changes in regulations. Smoking bans in some locations could also have an adverse effect on our business. For fiscal 2005, approximately 28.5% of our restaurant food and beverage sales was attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages, and we believe our ability to serve these beverages is an important factor in attracting guests. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each of our restaurants to apply to a state authority and, in certain locations, county or municipal authorities for a license or permit to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises and to provide service for extended hours and on Sundays. 18 Table of Contents Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time, which could include sales to minors or intoxicated persons. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of daily operations of our restaurants. The failure of a restaurant to obtain or retain liquor or food service licenses would adversely affect the restaurant’s operations. Various federal and state labor laws govern our relationship with our associates and affect our operating costs. These laws include minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates, and citizenship requirements. Additional government imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leave of absence and mandated health benefits, increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for associates who receive gratuities or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements could harm our operating results. We are also subject to the ADA which may increase the cost of construction or remodeling. On June 17, 2002, the United States Supreme Court ruled that the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) can use aggregate tip estimates to ensure that the employer is paying FICA taxes on allegedly underreported tips. Under the ruling, the IRS does not need to examine individual associates’ records and it is permissible for the IRS to estimate the amount of cash tips given to associates based on tips included on credit card receipts. The reporting of tips is the responsibility of the associates receiving the tips. We encourage and train our associates to abide by the law and report 100% of the tips that they receive. While we believe our associates adequately report tips, we have implemented tip reporting policies and procedures that are in full compliance with the recommended IRS policies and procedures as defined in our Tip Reporting Alternative Commitment agreement that was executed by the Company and the IRS in fiscal 2003. We may not be able to generate sufficient future taxable income to fully utilize our income tax operating loss and credit carryforwards As of July 3, 2005, we had federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $45.0 million and FICA tax credit carryforwards of approximately $7.8 million. The federal NOL’s expire at various times through 2023 and the FICA tip tax credits expire at various times through 2025. Also as of July 3, 2005, we had certain state net operating loss carryforwards totaling $11.5 million expiring at various dates through 2024. While we expect to fully utilize all of the federal carryforwards and almost all of the state carryforwards to reduce our income tax liabilities, future income may not be sufficient for full utilization of the carryforwards. Our financial results are subject to fluctuations due to the seasonal nature of our business Our sales fluctuate seasonally and therefore our quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. For fiscal years 2005 and 2004, our relative sales were highest in our second quarter (October through December), followed by our third quarter (January through March), then by our fourth quarter (April through June). Our first quarter (July through September) recorded the lowest relative sales for those years. Factors influencing sales variability in addition to those noted above include the frequency and popularity, or lack thereof, of sporting events, holidays (including which day of the week the holiday occurs) and weather. 19 Table of Contents We may be locked into long-term and non-cancelable leases that we want to cancel, and may be unable to renew leases that we want to extend at the end of their terms Most of our current leases are non-cancelable and typically have terms ranging from 10 to 20 years and renewal options for terms ranging from five to 20 years. Leases that we enter into in the future likely will also be long-term and non-cancelable and have similar renewal options. While we have yet to do so, if we close a restaurant, we may remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which would include, among other things, payment of rent for the balance of the lease term. Additionally, the potential losses associated with our inability to cancel leases may result in our keeping open restaurant locations that are performing significantly below targeted levels. As a result, ongoing operations at underperforming restaurant locations could impair our results of operations. In addition, at the end of the lease term and any renewal period for a restaurant, we may be unable to renew the lease without substantial additional cost, if at all. As a result, we may be required to close or relocate a restaurant, which could subject us to construction and other costs and risks, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may not be able to repay or refinance our indebtedness Our long-term debt is principally comprised of a $15.0 million face value issuance of 5.5% convertible notes due December 2007. The notes are convertible at the option of the holder at any time prior to maturity into shares of our common stock, at a conversion price of $10.66 per share, subject to adjustment upon certain events. At any time on or after December 15, 2005, we may redeem some or all of the notes at par plus accrued and unpaid interest. All of the notes can be converted, at our option, into shares of common stock at the then effective conversion price if the closing price of the common stock exceeds 150% of the then effective conversion price for any 15 out of 20 consecutive trading days at any time before December 2006. There are no assurances that the convertible debt holders will convert their debt into shares prior to December 2007, nor are there any assurances that the stock price will rise, allowing us to convert the debt. If the debt is not converted it may be necessary for us to seek additional financing when this debt matures. If we seek additional financing there are no assurances that we will be able to do so at that time, and the terms of the debt may not be as favorable as our existing debt. Our failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required, beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K, to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and to have our registered independent accounting firm attest to such evaluation. We have devoted significant resources to document, test, monitor and improve our internal controls and will continue to do so in the future; however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that our internal controls will be adequate in the future. If we fail to timely complete our future internal controls evaluations, or if our registered independent accounting firm cannot timely attest to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause us to fail to satisfy our public reporting requirements. 20 Table of Contents If certain of our restaurants fail to perform to a level sufficient to cover their asset value, we may be forced if incur further write-downs of our assets, which could negatively impact our financial performance Based on our evaluation of the estimated fair values of impaired assets of four of our underperforming restaurants, we recorded an impairment charge of $6.6 million during our third quarter ended April 3, 2005. During the quarter ended April 3, 2005, three additional restaurants located in Irvine, California, Skokie, Illinois and Richmond, Virginia were also reviewed for impairment. At this time, we have not recorded an impairment charge related to these restaurants because management believes certain changes can be made to improve the future prospects of those restaurants. We determined that each of these restaurants has the opportunity to improve their cash flows to a level sufficient to cover their asset value once external factors impacting their sales are properly addressed. However, there can be no assurance that we will not experience circumstances in the future that require us to write-down additional assets of these or other restaurants. 