Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below, among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. A substantial portion of our revenues are generated from contracts with U.S. government agencies that are subject to annual renewal and Congressional appropriations. Termination of these contracts or a failure by Congress to make appropriations to the NGA could materially reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business. Revenues from U.S. government contracts accounted for 66 percent of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our contracts with U.S. government agencies are subject to risks of termination, with or without cause, or reduction in scope due to changes in U.S. government policies, priorities or funding level commitments to various agencies. Our primary contract with the U.S. government, through the NGA, is the EnhancedView SLA, which was awarded and authorized on August 6, 2010. Any inability on our part to meet the performance requirements of the EnhancedView SLA could result in a breach of our contract with the NGA. The EnhancedView SLA is structured as a one-year agreement, with nine one-year renewal options, exercisable at the NGA’s option. A breach of our contract with the NGA resulting in its termination, or a decision by the NGA not to exercise it renewal options under the EnhancedView SLA, or any other U.S. government contract, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although our NGA contracts generally involve fixed annual minimum commitments, such commitments are subject to annual Congressional appropriations and, as a result, the NGA may not continue to fund these contracts at current or anticipated levels. If the NGA terminates, significantly reduces in scope or suspends any of its contracts with us, or changes its policies, priorities or funding levels, these actions would have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We recognized $99.2 million of revenue under the NextView SLA with the NGA and $49.0 million of revenue under the EnhancedView SLA for the year ended December 31, 2010, which accounted for approximately 45 percent of our revenue during the year ended December 31, 2010. As part of the EnhancedView award, we have entered into a cost-share agreement with the NGA that provides for approximately $337.0 million of funding for the development and launch of GeoEye-2; this amount represents approximately 40 percent of our expected GeoEye-2 development and launch expense. If the cost-share agreement is terminated, it will be difficult for us to obtain a similar level of financing on comparable or acceptable terms, if at all. If such termination is accompanied by a termination or non-renewal of the EnhancedView SLA, we will experience significant difficulty in obtaining financing for the construction and development of GeoEye-2, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents A delay in the passage of the U.S. government’s budget could affect U.S. government procurement of our services and have an adverse effect on our future sales. When the U.S. government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, government operations are typically funded pursuant to a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. government operates under a continuing resolution, government agencies may delay or cancel funding we expect to receive from customers on work we are already performing. Additionally, when operating under a continuing resolution, U.S. government agencies may delay or cancel new initiatives and programs, which could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and results from operations. Changes in U.S. government policy regarding the use of commercial imagery products and service providers, or material delay or cancellation of the U.S. government EnhancedView program may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and our ability to fund operations and achieve our growth objectives. Current U.S. government policy encourages the use of commercial imagery products and services to support U.S. national security objectives. We are considered by the U.S. government to be a commercial imagery products and services provider. U.S. government policy is subject to change, and any change in policy away from supporting the use of commercial imagery products and service providers to meet U.S. government imagery needs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Satellites have limited useful lives and are expensive to replace. Satellites have limited useful lives. We determine a satellite’s useful life, or its expected operational life, using a complex calculation involving the probabilities of failure of the satellite’s components from design or manufacturing defects, environmental stresses, estimated remaining fuel or other causes. A number of factors can affect the expected operational lives of our satellites, including the quality of construction, the supply of fuel, the expected gradual environmental degradation of solar panels, the durability of various satellite components and the orbits in which the satellites are placed. Certain advanced components, such as its cameras, are integral to a satellite’s design functionality and expected operational life. The failure of satellite components can cause damage to, or loss of, the use of a satellite before the end of its expected operational life. Electrostatic storms or collisions with other objects could damage our satellites, which could in turn impair their design functionality and expected operational life. Such objects could include debris from exploded satellites and spent rocket stages, dead satellites and meteoroids. We cannot assure you that each satellite will remain in operation for its expected operational life. We expect the performance of any satellite to decline gradually near the end of its expected operational life. Our GeoEye-1 satellite was launched in September 2008 and has an expected operational life of nine years. IKONOS, another of our satellites, was fully depreciated in June 2008. In December 2010, a study on IKONOS was updated, indicating the life expectancy would go through January 2012. Management currently expects that IKONOS commercial operations could last significantly longer. However, there can be no assurance that IKONOS will continue to operate adequately to remain commercially viable. Replacing a satellite can be expensive. We are currently building GeoEye-2, which we expect to be operational in 2013. We expect to use up to $337.0 million in federal government cost-share funds, current cash balances, proceeds from the Preferred Stock sold to Cerberus Satellite LLC and funds generated from operations to develop and launch GeoEye-2. If our cost-share agreement with the NGA is terminated by the NGA, or if Congress fails to make appropriations to fund payments by the NGA under this cost-share agreement, we will have to seek additional financing from outside sources, which we may be unable to obtain. If we do not generate sufficient funds from operations and we cannot obtain financing from outside sources, we will not be able to deploy a new satellite to replace GeoEye-1 at the end of its expected operational life. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to generate sufficient funds from operations or be able to raise additional capital on acceptable terms or on a timely basis, if at all, to develop or deploy follow-on high-resolution satellites. We cannot assure you that our satellites will operate as designed. We may experience in-orbit satellite failures or degradations in performance that could impair the commercial performance of our satellites, which could lead to lost revenue, an increase in our operating expenses, lower operating income or lost backlog. 15 Table of Contents Our satellites employ advanced technologies and sensors that are subject to severe environmental stresses in space that could affect the satellite’s performance. Hardware component problems in space could lead to degradation in performance or loss of functionality of the satellite, with attendant costs and revenue losses. In addition, human operators may execute improper implementation commands that can negatively impact a satellite’s performance. Unanticipated catastrophic events, such as meteor showers or collisions with space debris, could reduce the performance of or destroy any of our satellites. Even if a satellite is operated properly, minor technical flaws in the satellite’s sensors could significantly degrade their performance, which could materially affect our ability to collect imagery and market our products successfully. If we suffer a partial or total loss of a deployed satellite, we would need a significant amount of time and would incur substantial expense to repair or replace that satellite. We may experience other problems with our satellites that may reduce their performance. During any period in which a satellite is not fully operational, we may lose most or all of the revenue that otherwise would have been derived from that satellite. In addition, we may not have on hand, or be able to obtain in a timely manner, the necessary funds to cover the cost of any necessary satellite repair or replacement. Our inability to repair or replace a defective satellite, or correct any other technical problem in a timely manner, could result in a significant loss of revenue. Our business model depends on our ability to sell imagery from our high-resolution satellites. We do not presently have plans to construct and launch a replacement satellite for our high-resolution IKONOS satellite if it fails. In December 2009, we announced that our engineers detected an irregularity in the equipment that GeoEye-1 uses to point the antenna that transmits imagery to receiving stations on the ground. The irregularity limits the range of movement of GeoEye-1’s downlink antenna, which affects GeoEye-1’s ability to image and downlink simultaneously. GeoEye-1 is able to downlink imagery to GeoEye’s and customer ground stations when not collecting images. In May 2009, we announced that our engineers detected an aberration with GeoEye-1 affecting the collection of color imagery by a narrow band of pixels within an image. As a result, we modified our operations and currently collect, produce and deliver color imagery that is unaffected by the aberration to customers. Subsequently, an adjacent band of pixels experienced the same aberration. GeoEye-1 imagery collection, production and delivery to customers is unaffected by this second occurrence because of the previous operational modifications implemented by the Company, and the pixel bands affected by the aberration continue to collect panchromatic images normally. We have designed modifications that we believe would significantly reduce or eliminate the effects to the Company of these types of failures; however, any failure of our cameras on any of our satellites or other loss of satellite capacity or functionality could require different satellite operational modifications that may have a material adverse effect on our imagery collection operations, and could materially affect our financial condition and results from operations. New or proposed satellites are subject to construction and launch delays, the occurrence of which can materially and adversely affect our operations. We have in the past experienced delays in satellite construction and launch which have adversely affected our operations. Such delays can result from delays in the construction of satellites and the procurement of requisite components and launch vehicles; limited availability of appropriate launch windows; possible delays in obtaining regulatory approvals and launch failures. Failure to meet a satellite’s construction schedule, resulting in a significant delay in the future delivery of a satellite, could also adversely affect our marketing strategy for the satellite. Even after a satellite has been manufactured and is ready for launch, an appropriate launch date may not be available for several months. Further, any significant delay in the commencement of service of any of our satellites would allow customers who pre-purchased or agreed to utilize capacity on the satellite to terminate their contracts, which could affect our plans to replace an in-orbit satellite prior to the end of its service life. Our information systems and security systems and networks may be subject to intrusion, resulting in possible interruption, delay or suspension of our ability to provide our products and services, which could result in loss of current and future business. A breach or breaches of our system security could materially adversely affect our business. Our business involves the transmission and storage of large quantities of electronic data, including the imagery comprising our global imagery library. In addition, our business is becoming increasingly Web-based, allowing our customers to access and take delivery of imagery from our digital imagery library over the Internet. From time to time, we have experienced computer viruses and other forms of third-party attacks on our systems that, to date, have not had a material adverse affect on our business. Despite the implementation and continued upgrading of security measures, our network infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, unauthorized third-party access or other problems caused by third parties, which could lead to interruptions, delays or suspension of our operations, loss of imagery from our global imagery library and the loss or compromise of technical information or customer information. Inappropriate use of the Internet by third parties, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems—commonly known as “cracking” or “hacking”—could also potentially jeopardize the overall security of our systems and could deter certain customers from doing business with us. If a breach involves information subject to breach disclosure laws (such as certain personally identifiable information), we may be required to publicly disclose the breach, which may deter customers from dealing with us and/or expose us to material notification expenses. In addition, a security breach that involved classified or other sensitive government information, or certain controlled technical information, could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, and could result in loss of our government contracts, loss of access to classified information, loss of export privileges or debarment as a government contractor. 16 Table of Contents Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to otherwise infect or sabotage information systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these new techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. We may also need to expend significant people and financial resources to protect against security breaches or remedy any breaches that might occur. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of Web-based products and services we offer and increase the number of countries within which we do business. We operate in a highly competitive and specialized industry. The size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, which could result in loss of our market share. Our products and services compete with other satellite and aircraft-based imagery sources and related imagery products and services offered by a wide range and scale of commercial and government providers. Some competitors may have greater financial, personnel and other operating resources than us. Our major U.S. competitor for high-resolution satellite imagery is DigitalGlobe. DigitalGlobe currently operates three high-resolution satellites: Quickbird, launched in 2001; WorldView-1, launched in September 2007; and WorldView-2, launched in October 2009. We believe that WorldView-1 has the ability to provide commercial customers with 0.5-meter resolution black-and-white imagery. In addition, WorldView-2 has the ability to collect color imagery, which could strengthen DigitalGlobe’s position in the industry. Our satellites have different capabilities from those of DigitalGlobe. In particular, all of our satellites have the ability to produce color imagery, while only two of DigitalGlobe’s satellites can image in color, and GeoEye’s image resolution of .41 meters is believed to be the highest-resolution of any commercial satellite. In addition, GeoEye-1 is the most accurate commercial satellite in the market today. Historically, we have enjoyed a competitive advantage over DigitalGlobe in the international markets because of our long-standing relationships with our international customers, whom we helped with the construction and development of their ground stations over the past ten years. The WorldView-1 and WorldView-2 satellites may now have some of the same capabilities as GeoEye’s high-resolution satellites. The WorldView-1, WorldView-2 and QuickBird satellites have higher resolutions, and WorldView-1 and WorldView-2 have more advanced technologies than our IKONOS satellite. It is possible that foreign governments could subsidize, fund the development of, construct, launch and operate imagery satellites with comparable or higher resolution and accuracy in the future, which could enable them to sell Earth imagery from their satellites in the commercial market and thereby compete on price with our imagery products. If competitors develop and launch satellites with comparable or more advanced technologies than ours, or offer services at lower prices than ours, then our business and results of operations could be harmed. If we cannot maintain our margins, our financial position could be negatively affected. U.S. and foreign governmental agencies may build and operate their own systems, which could affect the current and potential market share of our products and services and could lead to pricing pressure. The U.S. government currently relies, and is likely to continue to rely, on government-owned and operated systems for classified satellite-based high-resolution imagery. The U.S. government could reduce its purchases from commercial satellite imagery providers or decrease the number of companies to which it contracts with no corresponding increase in the total amount spent. The U.S. government and foreign governments also may develop, construct, launch and operate their own imagery satellites, which could reduce their need to rely on commercial suppliers. In addition, such governments could sell Earth imagery from their satellites in the commercial market and thereby compete with our imagery products and services. These governments could also subsidize the development, launch and operation of imagery satellites by our current or future competitors and subsidize the pricing of imagery from their satellites, which could lead to pricing pressure. Pricing pressure could lead to potential market share losses if we choose not to lower our prices to retain our existing customer base. Any reduction in purchases of our products and services by the U.S. government could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents The success of our products and services will depend on market acceptance, and you should not rely on historic growth rates as an indicator of future growth. Our success depends on existing markets accepting our imagery products and information services and our ability to develop new business markets and new services. Our business plan is based on the assumption that we will generate significant future revenues from sales of high-resolution imagery produced by our satellite constellation and from sales of our information services to current and new customers in our existing and new markets. The commercial availability of high-resolution satellite imagery is still a fairly new market. Consequently, it is difficult to predict accurately the ultimate size of the market and the market acceptance of our products and services. Our strategy is to target certain existing and new markets for our satellite imagery and relies on a number of assumptions. The actual market for our products and services could vary from the potential end markets that we have identified causing us to develop smaller end markets and potentially miss other market opportunities. We cannot accurately predict whether our products and services will achieve significant market acceptance or whether there will be a market for our products and services on terms we find acceptable. Market acceptance of our commercial high-resolution Earth imagery products and new information services depends on a number of factors, including the quality, scope, timeliness, sophistication and price of services and the availability of substitute products and services. Lack of significant market acceptance of our offerings, or other products and services that utilize our products and services, delays in acceptance, failure of certain markets to develop or our need to make significant investments to achieve acceptance by the market would negatively affect our business operations, financial condition and financial results. We may not continue to grow in line with our historical growth rates. If we are unable to achieve sustainable growth, we may be unable to execute our business strategy, expand our business or fund our liquidity needs. As a result, our prospects, financial condition and business operations could be materially and adversely affected. Interruption or failure of our infrastructure and image downloading systems could impair our ability to effectively perform our daily operations, protect and maintain the Earth imagery content stored in our image archives and provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our results of operations. The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our infrastructure, information technology and communications systems. Any system downtime, damage to, or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our service, which could reduce our revenue and profits. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems. Our data centers and ground stations can be powered by backup generators. However, if our primary source of power and the backup generators also fail, our daily operations and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our ground stations and collection systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events. Our satellite imagery is encrypted, downloaded directly to our ground stations and then stored in our image archives for sale to our customers. As a result, our operations are dependent upon our ability to maintain and protect our Earth imagery content and our image archives and to provide our images to our customers, including our foreign distribution network, value-added resellers and EyeQ customers. The impairment of our ability to perform any of these functions could result in lengthy interruptions in our services and/or damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We rely on resellers and a foreign distribution network to market and sell our products and services in certain markets and to certain customers. If these distributors and resellers fail to market our products and services successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We rely principally on foreign regional resellers to market and sell our imagery from the GeoEye-1 and IKONOS satellites in various international markets. We are currently expanding our efforts to further develop our current and future operations in international markets. These regional resellers may not have the skill or experience to further develop regional commercial markets for our products and services. If we fail to enter into additional regional distribution agreements, or if our foreign regional resellers fail to market and sell our imagery products and services successfully abroad, these marketing failures could negatively affect our business operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We rely on resellers to develop, market and sell our products and services to address certain target markets, including certain industries and geographical markets. If our value-added resellers fail to develop, market and sell our products and services successfully, this failure could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we carry insurance on our satellites, there can be no assurance that insurance proceeds would be available to us in the event of operational degradation of any our satellites, or that proceeds that might be available will adequately cover our losses. We procure insurance covering risks associated with our satellite operations through the commercial insurance markets. The cost and amount of coverage available to us, and the types of loss coverage we are able to obtain at reasonable costs, are affected by factors beyond our control. These include recent loss experience in insurance markets, risk assessments by insurance carriers and their advisors, the carriers’ cost of capital, general economic conditions, and failures of other satellites using components similar to ours or using similar launch vehicles. Insurance premiums for satellite risk of loss coverage have historically been quite volatile, as have the terms of coverage and exclusions for coverage, and there can be no assurance that future premiums we may be required to pay to obtain or maintain our insurance will not exceed our ability to pay those premiums. Higher premiums on insurance policies will increase our costs. Should the future terms of launch and in-orbit insurance policies become less favorable than those currently available, this may result in limits on amounts of coverage that we can obtain or may prevent us from obtaining insurance at all. Our insurance policies contain various exclusions from coverage based upon commercial realities and the types of coverage available in the market. For example, the anomalies we have experienced in the operation of GeoEye-1 are excluded from our present policies and any costs we have experienced to mitigate such anomalies are not covered by insurance. If we experience other operational anomalies associated with our satellites that could degrade their performance or our ability to collect the amount and/or quality of imagery that we anticipate, we may not have access to proceeds to cover our added costs or loss of revenue. Our 2016 Notes and 2015 Notes require us to obtain launch and in-orbit insurance for our satellites, which is costly and may be difficult or impossible to obtain. A loss of a high-resolution satellite such as GeoEye-1 will require us to offer to repurchase our 2016 Notes and 2015 Notes, and we may lack sufficient insurance to cover that cost. The terms of the 2016 Notes and 2015 Notes require us to obtain launch and in-orbit insurance for any future satellites we construct and launch and require us to maintain specified levels of in-orbit operation insurance for GeoEye-1, to the extent that such coverage can be obtained at a premium that is not disproportionately high. With respect to GeoEye-1, we currently carry $255.8 million of in-orbit insurance, consisting of $120.3 million of in-orbit insurance in the event of the total loss of the satellite, expiring December 1, 2011. We also carry $135.5 million of in-orbit full coverage to be paid if the satellite’s capabilities become impaired as measured against a set of specifications, of which $50.0 million expires on September 6, 2011, and $85.5 million expires on December 1, 2011. We believe, that under current market conditions, the premiums for additional coverage would be disproportionately high. This insurance is not sufficient to cover the cost of a replacement high-resolution imagery satellite such as GeoEye-1 or to provide us with sufficient funds to repurchase all of the 2016 Notes and the 2015 Notes then outstanding in the event that, as a result of such a loss, we are required to make a mandatory offer to repurchase the 2016 Notes and the 2015 Notes. We will seek to obtain insurance coverage for GeoEye-2 and all future satellites as required under the 2016 Notes and the 2015 Notes. However, any failure to obtain required insurance could cause a default under the 2016 Notes and the 2015 Notes. The global financial crisis may affect our business operations, financial condition and financial results in ways that we currently cannot predict. The global credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business, our business operations, financial condition and financial results. In particular: the cost of capital has increased substantially in certain markets, while the availability of funds from the capital markets has diminished significantly in certain markets. Accordingly, our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted or be available only on terms we do not consider favorable. Limited access to the capital markets could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of business opportunities or react to changing economic and business conditions and could adversely affect our strategy. The current economic situation could affect our customers, causing them to fail to meet obligations to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results from operations and cash flows. State and local governments may be more vulnerable to the economic downturn and, accordingly, the operations of our subsidiary, M.J. Harden Associates, Inc. have and could continue to face greater exposure to this state and local government risk. A continued economic downturn coupled with the uncertainty and volatility of the global financial crisis may have a further adverse affect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows that we currently cannot predict or anticipate. 19 Table of Contents In addition, the current economic downturn has also led to concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the financial strength of our counterparties. For example, if one or more of our insurance carriers fails, we may not receive the full amount of proceeds due to us in the event of loss or damage to one of our satellites. In addition, if we attempt to obtain future insurance in addition to, or replacement of, our existing coverage, the credit market turmoil could negatively impact our ability to obtain such insurance. Our business is capital intensive, and we may not be able to raise adequate capital to finance our business strategies, including any future satellite, or we may be able to do so only on terms that significantly restrict our ability to operate our business. The implementation of our business strategies requires a substantial outlay of capital. As we pursue our business strategies and seek to respond to opportunities and trends in our industry, our actual capital expenditures may differ from our expected capital expenditures, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy our capital requirements in the future. We currently expect that our ongoing liquidity requirements for sustaining our operations will be satisfied by cash on hand, cash generated from our existing and future operations, proceeds from the Equity Financing and the net proceeds from the Notes offering. However, we cannot provide assurances that our businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future or that future borrowings will be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to execute our business strategies. Lending institutions have suffered and may continue to suffer losses due to their lending policies and their other financial relationships, especially because of the general weak U.S. economy. As a result, changes in the capital markets may impact our ability to obtain new financing or refinance our existing debt on reasonable terms and in adequate amounts, if at all. If we determine we need to obtain additional funds through external financing and are unable to do so, we may be prevented from fully implementing our business strategies. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient capital to continue funding our satellite constellation and expand our other businesses. Failure to obtain, or the revocation of, regulatory approvals could result in service interruptions and materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. U.S. Government Approvals. Operation of our satellites requires licenses from, and is subject to regulation by, the DoC. The failure to obtain these licenses, or the revocation of one or more licenses (for example, as the result of our failure to comply with our licenses or applicable regulations), could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. DoC regulations and license conditions provide that we must obtain prior DoC consent to certain changes in control over, or the holding of certain interests in, the Company. DoC regulations and license conditions also provide that the U.S. government may interrupt service or otherwise limit our ability to distribute satellite images to certain parties, including certain of our customers, to address national security or foreign policy concerns or because of the international obligations of the U.S. government. Actual or threatened interruptions or limitations on our service could adversely affect our ability to market our products. In addition, the DoC has the right to review and approve our agreements with foreign entities, including contracts with international customers for high-resolution imagery. We have received such approvals for the agreements in place with our existing international customers. However, such reviews could delay or prohibit us from executing new international agreements or renewals or extensions of our existing agreements, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. See “Government Regulation – United States – Department of Commerce Regulation.” We have in the past and may in the future supply certain of our international customers with access to ground stations that enable these customers to downlink data directly from our satellites. Exporting these ground stations and technical information relating to these stations may require us to obtain export licenses from the DoC or the U.S. Department of State. If the DoC or the U.S. Department of State does not issue these export licenses in connection with future exports, or if these licenses are significantly delayed or contain restrictions, or if the DoC or the U.S. Department of State revokes, suspends or denies a request for renewal of existing licenses, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See “Government Regulation – United States – Export Controls and Security Clearance Regulation.” We require certain facility and personnel security clearances to perform our classified U.S. government related business. Security clearances are subject to regulations and requirements including the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual, or NISPOM, which provides baseline standards for the protection of classified information released or disclosed to industry in connection with classified U.S. government contracts. Among other things, the NISPOM restricts the ability of non-U.S. (“foreign”) entities or individuals to hold foreign ownership, control, or influence, or FOCI, over a U.S. person performing classified work for the U.S. government, such that investments in the Company by a non-U.S. entity or individual could require prior review by the U.S. Department of Defense. The suspension or cancellation of our facility security clearances, or the inability to maintain personnel security clearances for our personnel to perform classified U.S. government contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. See “Government Regulation – United States – Export Controls and Security Clearance Regulation.” 20 Table of Contents Our operation of satellites and ground stations also requires licenses from, and is subject to regulation by, the FCC. The FCC regulates the launch and operation of our satellites, the use of satellite spectrum and the licensing of our ground station terminals located within the United States. The FCC also regulates the ownership and control of its licensees, and must consent to certain changes in such ownership or control. We currently have all required FCC licenses necessary to operate our business as it is currently conducted. However, these licenses have expiration dates, which are expected to occur while the satellites and ground systems are still in use. In light of the EnhancedView contract award, which includes up to $337.0 million in cost-share funds from the NGA for the development and launch of the GeoEye-2 satellite, we are preparing an application to modify our GeoEye-1 satellite FCC license to add the GeoEye-2 satellite and associated ground stations and expect to file this application in the near future. The FCC generally renews licenses in the ordinary course, but there can be no assurance that our licenses will be renewed at their expiration dates for full terms or without adverse conditions, or that our application to modify our GeoEye-1 satellite FCC license will be granted. Failure to renew or modify these licenses, obtain FCC authorization to launch and operate any new satellites or otherwise maintain our existing licenses (for example, as the result of our failure to comply with our licenses or applicable regulations) could have a material adverse affect on our ability to generate revenue and conduct our business as currently planned. See “Government Regulation – United States – Federal Communications Commission Regulation.” International Registration and Approvals. The use of satellite spectrum is subject to the requirements of the ITU. Additionally, satellite operators must abide by the specific laws of the countries in which downlink services are provided from the satellite to ground station terminals within such countries. Our customers or distributors are responsible for obtaining local regulatory approval from the governments in the countries in which they receive imagery downlinked directly from our satellites to ground stations within such countries. If the necessary approvals are not obtained, we will not be able to distribute real-time imagery in those regions and this inability to offer real-time service in a foreign country could negatively affect our business. In addition, regulatory provisions in countries where we wish to operate may impose unduly burdensome restrictions on our operations. Our business may also be adversely affected if the national authorities where we plan to operate adopt treaties, regulations or legislation unfavorable to foreign companies or limiting the provision of our products and services. Our international business exposes us to risks relating to increased regulation and political or economic instability in foreign markets. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 26 percent of our total revenues were derived from international sales. We intend to continue to pursue international contracts, and we expect to continue to derive substantial revenues from international sales of our products and services. International operations are subject to certain risks, such as: · Changes in domestic and foreign governmental regulations and licensing requirements; · Deterioration of relations between the United States and a particular foreign country; · Increases in tariffs and taxes and other trade barriers; · Changes in political and economic stability, including fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, which may make payment in U.S. dollars, as provided for under our existing contracts, more expensive for foreign customers; and · Difficulties in obtaining or enforcing judgments in foreign jurisdictions. These risks are beyond our control and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends upon a limited number of key personnel. Our success depends on attracting, retaining and motivating highly skilled engineering and information technology professionals. A number of our employees are highly skilled engineers and other information technology professionals. In addition, our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of the members of our senior executive management team. Competition for highly skilled individuals is intense, and if we fail to continue to attract, retain and motivate such professionals, our ability to compete in our industry could be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Government audits of our contracts could result in a decrease in our earnings and or have a negative effect on our cash position following an audit adjustment. Our government contracts are subject to cost audits, which may occur several years after the period to which the audit relates. If an audit identifies significant unallowable costs, we could incur a material charge to our earnings or reduction in our cash position. Our effective income tax rate may vary. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations and or rates; the results of any tax examinations; changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations; changes in estimates of prior years’ items; acquisitions; changes in our corporate structure; and changes in overall levels of income before taxes. All of these factors may result in periodic revisions to our effective income tax rate. We may pursue acquisitions, investments, strategic alliances and joint ventures, which could affect our results of operations. We may engage in various transactions, including purchases or sales of assets, acquisitions of businesses, or enter into investments or contractual arrangements, such as strategic alliances or joint ventures. These transactions may be intended to result in the realization of cost savings, the generation of cash, the generation of income or the reduction of risk. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment, alliance or joint venture opportunities or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions or relationships on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or that such transactions or relationships will be successful. In addition, upon consummation of an acquisition, investment, strategic alliance or joint venture, we may face challenges with integration efforts, including the combination and development of product and service offerings, sales and marketing approaches and establishment of combined operations. There can be no assurance that an acquired business will perform as expected; that we will not incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities; that the business will generate sufficient cash flow to support the indebtedness, if incurred, to acquire them or the expenditures needed to develop them; or that the rate of return from such businesses will justify the decision to invest the capital. 22 Table of Contents Any future acquisitions, investments, strategic alliances or joint ventures may require additional debt or equity financing, which, in the case of debt financing, would increase our leverage and potentially affect our creditworthiness. Any deterioration in our creditworthiness or our future credit ratings associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow by resulting in more restrictive borrowing terms. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness has important consequences. For example, it: · limits our ability to borrow additional funds; · limits our ability to pay dividends; · limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; · increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limits our ability to make strategic acquisitions; · requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; and · places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt. Interest costs related to our debt are substantial and, as a result, the demands on our cash resources are significant. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund operations and planned capital expenditures will depend on our future results of operations and ability to generate cash. Our future results of operations are, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. The terms of the Indenture will permit us and our subsidiaries to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including secured indebtedness with first-priority liens or pari passu liens, which could further exacerbate the risks described above. Servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on numerous factors beyond our control, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our interest payments totaled $44.9 million. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flows are insufficient to allow us to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, we may need to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, or that we will be able to refinance on commercially reasonable terms or that these measures would satisfy our scheduled debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our debt on favorable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, the value of our outstanding debt (including the Notes offered hereby) and our ability to make any required cash payments under our indebtedness. 23 Table of Contents A lowering or withdrawal of the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. Our debt currently has a non-investment grade credit rating, and any credit rating assigned could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency’s judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of the Notes. Credit ratings are not recommendations to purchase, hold or sell the Notes. Additionally, credit ratings may not reflect the potential effect of risks relating to the structure or marketing of the Notes. Any downgrade by a rating agency could decrease earnings and may result in higher borrowing costs. Any future lowering of our ratings likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing. If any credit rating initially assigned to the Notes is subsequently lowered or withdrawn for any reason, you may not be able to resell your Notes without a substantial discount. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 