Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K. OVERVIEW Syntel, incorporated under Michigan law on April 15, 1980, is a worldwide provider of information technology and Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO) services to Global 2000 companies. The Company’s service offerings are grouped into four segments: Applications Outsourcing, KPO, e-Business and TeamSourcing®. Applications Outsourcing consists of outsourcing services for ongoing management, development and maintenance of business applications, including testing and migration services. KPO consists of high-value, customized outsourcing solutions that enhance critical process outsourced solutions such as transaction processing, loan servicing, retirement processing and collections and payment processing. Syntel’s primary KPO focus is in the financial services, healthcare and insurance sectors. e-Business consists of practice areas in Web solutions, Data Warehousing/Business Intelligence, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) and Enterprise Applications Integration (EAI) services. TeamSourcing consists of professional Information Technology (IT) consulting services. Syntel believes that its service offerings are distinguished by its Global Delivery Model, a corporate culture focused on customer service, responsiveness and its own internally-developed intellectual capital, which is based on a proven set of methodologies, practices and tools for managing the IT and select business process functions of its customers. Through Applications Outsourcing, Syntel provides high-value applications management services for ongoing management, development and maintenance of customers’ business applications, including testing and migration services. Syntel assumes responsibility for and manages selected application support functions for the customer. Utilizing its developed methodologies, processes and tools, the Company is able to assimilate the customer’s business process knowledge in order to develop and deliver services specifically tailored for that customer. Applications Outsourcing services accounted for approximately 73%, 67% and 67% of total consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 1 Table of Contents Through KPO, Syntel seeks to provide high-value KPO solutions to its customers, as opposed to low-value, capital-intensive voice-based KPO services. Syntel provides outsourced solutions for a client’s business processes, providing them with the advantage of a low-cost position and process enhancement through optimal use of technology. Syntel uses a proprietary tool called Identeon™ to assist with strategic assessments of business processes and to identify the right ones for outsourcing. Syntel focuses on the middle and back-office business processes of the transaction cycle in the capital markets, banking, healthcare and insurance industries. Syntel’s insurance KPO services include claims processing and policy administration, among others. Its banking and capital markets KPO services include investment management global operations including brokerage operations, middle office reconciliation, transfer agency, fund accounting, performance and attribution, trade processing, compliance monitoring, corporate actions, custody reconciliation, hedge fund administration and data management. KPO services for the healthcare and life sciences industry include records management, clinical data management and claims solutions. KPO accounted for approximately 18%, 20% and 16% of total consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Through its e-Business practices, Syntel provides strategic advanced technology services for architecture, design, development, implementation and maintenance of solutions to enable customers to be more competitive. Many of today’s advanced technology solutions are built around utilization of the Internet and mobile devices, which have transformed many businesses. The Company provides customized technology services in the areas of web solutions, including architecture, enablement of legacy applications and portal development. Syntel has entered into several alliances with leading software firms and IT application software infrastructure providers that will provide the Company with increased opportunities for market penetration. e-Business accounted for approximately 7%, 11% and 12% of total consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Through TeamSourcing, Syntel provides professional IT consulting services directly to customers. TeamSourcing services include systems specification, design, development, implementation and maintenance of complex IT applications involving diverse computer hardware, software, data and networking technologies and practices. TeamSourcing services are provided by individual professionals and teams of professionals dedicated to assisting customer IT departments with systems projects and ongoing functions. TeamSourcing accounted for approximately 2%, 2% and 5% of total consolidated revenues, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The information set forth under Note 15 “Segment Reporting” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the separate financial section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference. The Company’s Global Delivery Service provides Syntel with flexibility to deliver to each customer a unique mix of services on-site at the customer’s location, off-site at the Company’s U.S. locations and offshore at Global Development Centers in Mumbai, Chennai and Pune, India. The benefits to the customer from this customized service approach include responsive delivery based on an in-depth understanding of the specific processes and needs of the customer, quick turnaround, access to the most knowledgeable personnel and best practices, resource depth, 24-hour support seven days a week and cost-effectiveness. By linking each of its service locations together through a dedicated data and voice network, Syntel provides a seamless service capability to its customers around the world largely unconstrained by geography, time zones or cultures. 2 Table of Contents Syntel provides its services to a broad range of Global 2000 companies in the financial services, healthcare, life sciences, insurance, manufacturing, automotive, retail, telecom and other industries. During 2009 the Company provided services to 103 customers, principally in the U.S. The Company has been chosen as a preferred vendor by many of its customers and has been recognized for its quality and responsiveness. The Company seeks to develop long-term relationships with its customers so as to become a trusted business partner and enable it to expand its roles with current customers. Additionally, the Company believes that its vertical expertise, breadth of service and cultural alignment are also important decision factors in the Company being chosen as a preferred vendor. The Company has a focused sales effort that includes a strategy of engaging existing IT customers in higher-value KPO services. The Company has focused on increasing its resources in the development, marketing and sales of its Applications Outsourcing and KPO services to expand its customer base. The Company believes its human resources are its most valuable asset and invests significantly in programs to recruit, train and retain IT professionals. The Company recruits globally through its worldwide recruiting network and maintains a broad package of employee support programs. Syntel believes that its management structure and human resources organization is designed to maximize the Company’s ability to efficiently expand its IT professional staff in response to customer needs. As of December 31, 2009, Syntel’s worldwide billable headcount consisted of 9,228 consultants providing professional services to Syntel’s customers. The information set forth under Note 16 “Geographic Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the separate financial section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference. INDUSTRY Increasing globalization and rapid technological innovation are creating an increasingly competitive business environment that requires companies to fundamentally change their business processes. This change is driven by increasing demand from customers for increased quality, lower costs, faster turnaround, and highly responsive and personalized service. To make these changes and adequately address these needs, companies are focusing on their core competencies and on cost-effectively utilizing IT solutions to improve productivity, lower costs and manage operations more effectively. As a result, designing, developing and implementing advanced technology solutions are key priorities for the majority of corporations. In addition, the development and maintenance of new IT applications continues to be a high priority. This type of work requires highly skilled individuals trained in a broad spectrum of technologies. However, there is a growing shortage of these individuals and many companies are reluctant to expand their IT departments through additional staffing, particularly at a time when they are attempting to minimize fixed costs and reduce their workforce. The Company believes that many organizations are concluding that using outside specialists to address their advanced technology and ongoing IT requirements enables them to develop better solutions in shorter time frames and to reduce implementation risks and ongoing maintenance costs. Those outside specialists best positioned to benefit from these trends have access to a pool of skilled technical professionals, have demonstrated the ability to manage IT resources effectively, have low-cost offshore software development facilities, and can efficiently expand operations to meet customer demands. Demand for IT services has grown significantly as companies seek ways to outsource not only specific projects for the design, development and 3 Table of Contents integration of new technologies, but also ongoing management, development and maintenance of existing IT systems. The Company believes that outsourcing the ongoing management, development and maintenance of IT applications is becoming increasingly critical to business enterprises. The challenges of IT planning, budgeting and execution in the face of technological innovations and uncertainties, the focus on cost cutting, and a growing shortage of skilled personnel are driving senior corporate management to strategically pursue outsourcing of critical internal IT functions. Organizations are seeking an experienced IT services outsourcing provider that possesses not only the expertise and knowledge to address the complexities of rapidly changing technologies, but also the capability to understand and automate their business processes and knowledge base. In addition, the IT provider must be able to develop customized solutions to problems unique to the organization. This involves maintaining a combination of on-site, off-site and offshore professionals who know the customer’s IT and business processes, providing access to a wide range of expertise and best practices, providing responsiveness and accountability to allow internal IT departments to meet organization goals, and providing low-cost, value-added services to stay within the organization’s IT budget constraints. In today’s environment, large organizations are increasingly finding that full facilities management outsourcing providers, who own and manage an organization’s entire IT function, do not permit the organization to retain control over, or permit flexible reallocation of, its IT resources. This makes Syntel’s flexible model an attractive alternative. Demand for KPO services is also growing as enterprises are looking beyond IT outsourcing to drive cost reductions and enterprise wide improvements. Companies are starting to understand the benefits a KPO partner can deliver with increased efficiencies and potential for improved performance. COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES Syntel has developed mature processes to handle large, complex assignments and efficiently deliver higher quality IT and KPO solutions through a global delivery model. Management believes that Syntel’s global delivery model, vertical domain expertise, focus on customer service and end-to-end products are key competitive advantages. Global Delivery Service. Syntel performs its services on-site at the customer’s location, off-site at the Company’s U.S. locations and offshore at the Company’s Indian locations. By linking each of its service locations together through a dedicated data and voice network, Syntel provides a seamless service capability to its customers around the world, largely unconstrained by geographies, time zones and cultures. This Global Delivery Service gives the Company the flexibility to deliver to each customer a unique mix of on-site, off-site and offshore services to meet varying customer needs for direct interaction with Syntel personnel, access to technical expertise, resource availability and cost-effective delivery. The benefits to the customer from this customized service include responsive delivery based on an in-depth understanding of the specific processes and needs of the customer, quick turnaround, access to the most knowledgeable personnel and best practices, resource depth, 24-hour support seven days a week, and cost-effectiveness. To support its Global Delivery Service, the Company currently has three Global Development Centers located in Mumbai, Pune, and Chennai, India. The Company also has a Support Center located in Cary, North Carolina. The Mumbai Global Development Centers, including onsite deputations outside 4 Table of Contents Mumbai, employed 4,162 people as of December 31, 2009 and have a capacity of approximately 4,079 people. The Pune Global Development Centers employed 5,099 people as of December 31, 2009 and have a capacity of approximately 6,682 people. The Chennai Global Development Centers, including onsite deputations outside Chennai, employed 1,981 people as of December 31, 2009 and have a capacity of approximately 1,679 people. The above numbers of people employed include onsite deputations outside India. The Company has acquired 78 acres of land situated in Pune, out of which 40 acres of land for construction of a state-of-the-art development and training campus in Pune, India. Phase 1 of the construction was completed in August 2006, which included an office building for 950 seats, a food court and hotel. In February 2007, the Company completed 2 office buildings with more than 2,000 seats. When fully completed, the facility will cover over 1 million square feet and have capacity for 9,000 seats. It will be both a customer and employee-focused facility, including such amenities as training facilities, cafeteria and fitness center. The remaining 38 acres of land that is adjacent to this campus and this area has been designated as a Special Economic Zone (“SEZ”) by the Government of India. The Company has already completed construction of 2 office buildings in the SEZ area with more than 2,000 seats. In addition, Syntel leases two facilities in Pune, India consisting of approximately 45,463 square feet. The Company has approximately 29 acres of land in an Information Technology Park in Chennai, India. This area of land has been designated as a Special Economic Zone (SEZ) by the government of India. In Phase 1 the Company is constructing 0.7 million square feet of space. This consists of 3 Software Development Blocks each having a capacity of 1,700 seats, a Food Court with 1,000 seating capacity, a Training Block with 1,200 seating capacity, a Welcome Block, a Recreation Block and a Utility Block. Phase 1 is scheduled for substantial completion in the first half of 2010. Trusted Business Partner. The Syntel corporate culture reflects a “Customer for Life” philosophy, which emphasizes flexibility, responsiveness, cost-consciousness and a tradition of excellence. The Company recognizes that its best source for new business opportunities comes from existing customers and believes its customer service is a significant factor in Syntel’s high rate of repeat business. At engagement initiation, Syntel’s services are typically based on expertise in the software life cycle and underlying technologies. Over time, however, as Syntel develops an in-depth knowledge of a customer’s business processes, applications and industry, Syntel gains a competitive advantage to perform additional higher-value services for that customer. Deep Industry Expertise. Syntel has developed methodologies, toolsets and proprietary knowledge applicable to specific industries. Syntel combines deep industry knowledge with an understanding of its clients’ needs and technologies to provide high value, high quality services. Syntel’s industry expertise can be leveraged to assist other clients in the same industry, thereby improving the quality and value of its services. The Company domain expertise extends to multiple verticals, with particular strength in financial services, insurance, and healthcare. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company’s breakdown by industry vertical for financial services, healthcare, insurance, auto, retail and other was 57%, 15%, 18%, 2%, 2% and 6%, respectively. Depth and Breadth of Service Offerings. The Company provides a comprehensive range of services, including application development, application maintenance and support, packaged software implementation, infrastructure management services, architecture planning, KPO, migration and testing services. Syntel’s knowledge and experience spans multiple 5 Table of Contents computing platforms and technologies, which enable the Company to address a range of business needs and to function as a virtual extension of its clients’ IT departments. The Company offers a broad spectrum of services in select industry sectors, which it leverages to capitalize on opportunities. Proven Intellectual Capital. Over its 30-year history, Syntel has developed a proven set of methodologies, practices, tools and technical expertise for the development and management of its customers’ information systems. The Company believes that its intellectual capital is an important part of its competitive advantage. The Company benefits from its own experience in transitioning from a 100% onshore service provider to a majority offshore-centric service provider. The Company employs a team of professionals whose mission is to develop and formalize Syntel’s intellectual capital for use by the entire Syntel organization. This intellectual capital includes methodologies for the selection of appropriate customer IT and process functions for management by Syntel, tools for the transfer to Syntel of the systems and process knowledge of the customer, and techniques for providing systems and process support improvements to the customer. The Company believes its intellectual capital enhances its ability to understand customer needs, design customized solutions and provide quality services on a timely and cost-effective basis. The Company strives to continually enhance this knowledge base by creating competencies in emerging technical fields such as cloud computing, mobile and embedded technologies, open source platforms, automation and grid computing. Through these efforts, the Company becomes more valuable to the customer and is often able to expand the scope of its work for existing customers. Fixed-Priced and Fixed-Time Frame. Syntel has historically performed part of its services on a fixed-price, fixed-time frame basis, which the Company believes aligns its objectives with those of its clients. The Company delivers solutions for both enterprise-wide and departmental initiatives on a fixed-price and fixed-time frame basis using its proprietary tools and methodologies. The Company believes its ability to offer fixed-price and fixed-time frame processes, is an important competitive differentiator that allows the Company and its clients to better understand clients’ business needs, and to design, develop, integrate and implement solutions that address those needs. BUSINESS STRATEGY The Company’s objective is to become a strategic partner with its customers in managing the full IT/KPO services lifecycle by utilizing its Global Delivery Model, intellectual capital and customer service orientation. The Company plans to continue to pursue the following strategies to achieve this objective: Leverage Global Delivery Model. The ability to deliver a seamless service capability virtually anywhere in the world from its domestic and offshore facilities gives the Company an effective ability to meet customer needs for technical expertise, best practice solutions, resource availability, responsive turnaround and cost-effective delivery. The Company strives to leverage this capability to provide reliable and cost-effective services to its existing customers, expand services to existing customers and to attract new customers. Moreover, the flexibility and capacity of the Global Delivery Service and the Company’s worldwide recruitment and training programs enhance the ability of the Company to expand its business as the number of customers grows and their demands increase. The Company continues to expand the capacity of its Global Development Centers worldwide. The Company has made a significant migration of resources to 6 Table of Contents offshore development locations. Measured by billable headcount, approximately 80% of services were delivered from offshore centers as of December 31, 2009 versus 82% as of December 31, 2008. Continue to Grow Applications Outsourcing Services. Through Applications Outsourcing, the Company markets its higher value applications management services for ongoing applications management, development and maintenance. The Company has significantly increased its investment in Applications Outsourcing services and realigned its resources to focus on the development, marketing and sales of its Applications Outsourcing and KPO services, including the hiring of additional sales people and senior managers, developing proprietary methodologies, increasing marketing efforts, and redirecting organizational support in the areas of finance and administration, human resources and legal. Capitalize on Existing Capabilities in the KPO Market. The Company will grow its expertise in the area of value-added KPO solutions, primarily in the areas of financial services, healthcare and insurance. By leveraging a mature Global Delivery Model and domain expertise, the Company is able to deliver process improvements as well as provide competitively priced KPO solutions. In addition to offering its existing KPO solutions, the Company also expects to build on its solution set to capitalize on additional opportunities. Expand Customer Base and Role with Current Customers. The Company’s emphasis on customer service and long-term relationships has enabled the Company to generate recurring revenues from existing customers. The Company also seeks to expand its customer base by leveraging its expertise in providing services to the financial services, healthcare, insurance, automotive, retail, and other industries. The Company is increasing its marketing efforts in other parts of the world, particularly in Europe. Attract and Retain Highly Skilled Professionals. The Company believes that its human resources are its most valuable asset. Accordingly, its success depends in large part upon its ability to attract, develop, motivate, retain and effectively utilize highly skilled professionals. Over the years, the Company has developed a worldwide recruiting network, logistical expertise to relocate its personnel, and programs for human resource retention and development. The Company (1) employs professional recruiters who recruit qualified professionals throughout the U.S. and India, (2) trains employees and new recruits through both computer-based training and its four training centers, one of which is located in the U.S. and three of which are located in India, and (3) maintains a broad range of employee support programs, including relocation assistance, a comprehensive benefits package, career planning, and incentive plans. The Company believes that its management structure and human resources organization is designed to maximize the Company’s ability to efficiently expand its professional staff in response to customer needs. The Company believes that its recent investment in its Pune and Chennai, India campuses has positively impacted its ability to attract and retain high quality talent. Pursue Selective Partnership Opportunities. The Company has entered into partnership alliances with several software firms and IT application infrastructure firms. The alliances provide a strong software implementation strategy for the customer, combining the partner’s software with Syntel’s extensive implementation and delivery capabilities. Before entering into a partnership alliance, the Company considers a number of criteria, including: (1) technology employed; (2) projected product lifecycles; (3) size of the potential market; (4) software integration requirements of the product; and (5) the reputation of the potential partner. 7 Table of Contents SERVICE OFFERINGS Syntel provides a broad range of IT services through its Applications Outsourcing, e-Business, KPO, and TeamSourcing service offerings. Through Applications Outsourcing offering, the Company provides complete software applications development, maintenance, testing and migration services, and infrastructure services. Through its KPO offerings, the Company provides a host of outsourced solutions for knowledge and business processes. Through its e-Business practices, the Company provides advanced technology services in the areas of Architecture Strategy, Web Solutions, Data Warehousing/Business Intelligence, Enterprise Applications, Integration (EAI) and Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software package implementation. Through TeamSourcing, the Company provides professional IT consulting services. During the past year, the Company has increased the personnel and resources dedicated to the development, marketing and sales of its Applications Outsourcing and KPO services. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Applications Outsourcing and e-Business combined accounted for approximately 80%, 78% and 79%, respectively, of the Company’s total revenues and TeamSourcing represented approximately 2%, 2% and 5%, respectively, of the Company’s total revenues. The KPO segment started contributing revenues during the year 2004. Revenue from this segment was 18%, 20% and 16% of the Company’s total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Syntel’s focus on customer service is evidenced by the high level of repeat business from existing customers and the performance and quality awards its customers have bestowed on Syntel. In the fourth quarter of 2009, more than 97% of Syntel’s revenue came from clients the Company has worked with for at least one year. Syntel has earned recognition for its quality and innovation from a host of clients in a variety of industries. Syntel’s development centers in India earned the highest possible quality rating of the Software Engineering Institute (SEI) Capability Maturity Model (CMM) Level 5. Syntel is also an ISO 9001: 2000 and ISO 27001:2005 certified company and has achieved SAS 70 Type II Certification. Syntel is a Microsoft Certified Gold Partner and continues its status as a Project Management Institute Registered Education Provider. During 2009, Syntel also earned a host of media and industry awards, including International Association of Outsourcing Professional’s “The Global Outsourcing 100,” Global Services’ “Global Services 100,” American Banker and Financial Insights’ “FinTech 100,” Forbes’ “200 Best Small Companies in America,” The Black Book of Outsourcing’s “50 Best Managed Global Outsourcing Vendors,” Dataquest India’s “Top 20 BPO Provider,” and Dataquest India’s “Top 50 IT Provider” and the “Healthcare Informatics 100”. Applications Outsourcing Syntel provides high-value application management services for ongoing management, development and maintenance of business applications. Through Applications Outsourcing, the Company assumes responsibility for, and manages selected applications support functions of the customers. The Global Delivery Service is central to Syntel’s delivery of Applications Outsourcing services. It enables the Company to respond to customers’ needs for ongoing service and flexibility and has provided the capability to become productive quickly on a cost-effective basis to meet timing and resource demands for mission-critical applications. 8 Table of Contents Syntel has developed methodologies, processes and tools to effectively integrate and execute Applications Outsourcing engagements. Referred to as IntelliTransfer®, this methodology is implemented in three stages of planning, transition and launch. Syntel first focuses on the customer’s personnel, processes, technology and culture to develop a plan to effectively assimilate the business process knowledge of the customer. Syntel then begins to learn the business processes of the customer and, finally, seeks to assume responsibility for performance of a particular customer applications system or systems. As the Company develops an in-depth knowledge of the customer’s personnel, processes, technology and culture, Syntel acquires a competitive advantage to pursue more value-added services. The Company believes its approach to providing these services results in a long-term customer relationship involving a key Syntel role in the business processes and applications of the customer. Because providing both e-Business and Applications Outsourcing services typically involves close participation in the IT strategy of a customer’s organization, Syntel adjusts the manner in which it delivers these services to meet the specific needs of each customer. For example, if the customer’s business requires fast delivery of a mission-critical applications update, Syntel will combine its on-site professionals, who have knowledge of the customer’s business processes and applications, together with its global infrastructure to deliver around-the-clock resources. If the customer’s need is for cost reduction, Syntel may increase the portion of work performed at its offshore Global Development Centers, which has significantly lower costs. The Company believes that its ability to provide flexible service, delivery and access to resources permits responsiveness to customer needs and are important factors that distinguish its e-Business and Applications Outsourcing services from other IT service firms. Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO) Syntel seeks to provide high-value KPO solutions to its customers, as opposed to low-value, capital-intensive voice-based KPO services. Through KPO, Syntel provides outsourced solutions for a client’s knowledge and business processes, providing them with the advantage of a low-cost position and process enhancement through optimal use of technology. Syntel uses a proprietary tool called Identeon™ to assist with strategic assessments of business processes, identifying the right ones for outsourcing. Syntel focuses on the middle and back-office business processes of the transaction cycle in the capital markets, banking, healthcare and insurance industries. Its banking and capital markets KPO services include investment management global operations including brokerage operations, middle office reconciliation, transfer agency, fund accounting, performance and attribution, trade processing, compliance monitoring, corporate actions, custody reconciliation, hedge fund administration and data management. KPO services for the healthcare and life sciences industry includes records management, clinical data management and claims solutions. Syntel’s insurance KPO services include claims processing and policy administration, among others. e-Business Services Syntel provides strategic advanced technology services for the design, development, implementation and maintenance of solutions to enable customers to be more competitive. Many of today’s advanced technology solutions are built around utilization of the Internet and mobile devices, which have transformed many businesses. The Company provides customized technology services in the areas of web solutions, including architecture, enablement of legacy applications and portal development. In the area of 9 Table of Contents Data Warehousing/Business Intelligence, Syntel helps customers make more strategic use of information within their businesses through the development and implementation of analytics dashboards, data warehouses and data mining tools. In the areas of Enterprise Applications Integration and Enterprise Resource Planning, Syntel takes an enterprise-wide view of its customers’ environment and implements package software solutions that create better integration, and therefore better information utilization, between front-office and back-office applications. Syntel helps its customers select the appropriate package software options, then customize and implement the solutions. Additionally, the Company has effectively engaged several partnerships to provide its implementation, customization, migration and maintenance services with leading software and IT application software infrastructure. These partnerships will provide the Company with increased opportunities for market penetration. TeamSourcing® Syntel offers professional IT consulting services directly to its customers and, to a lesser degree, in partnership with other service providers. The professional IT consulting services include individual professionals and teams of professionals dedicated to assisting customer systems projects and ongoing IT functions. This service responds to the demand from internal IT departments for additional expertise, technical skills and personnel. The Company’s wide range of TeamSourcing services include IT applications systems specification, design, development, implementation and maintenance, which involve diverse computer hardware, software, data and networking technologies and practices. CUSTOMERS Syntel provides its services to a broad range of Global 2000 corporations in the financial services, healthcare, insurance, automotive, retail and other industries. In 2009, the Company provided services to 103 customers, principally in the U.S. The Company also provides services to customers in Europe and Southeast Asia, many of whom are subsidiaries or affiliates of its U.S. customers. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company’s top ten customers accounted for approximately 75%, 71% and 73% of the Company’s total revenues, respectively. The Company’s three largest customers in 2009 contributed approximately 21%, 20% and 8%, respectively, of the total revenues. The Company’s largest customer for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was American Express; accounting for approximately 21%, 20% and 19% of the total consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Further, the Company’s second-largest customer, State Street Bank contributed approximately 20%, 20% and 17% of total consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. GLOBAL DELIVERY SERVICE Syntel’s Global Delivery Service gives the Company the flexibility and resources to perform services on-site at the customer’s location, off-site at the Company’s U.S. locations and offshore at the Company’s Indian locations. By linking each of its service locations together through a dedicated data and voice network, Syntel provides a seamless service capability to its customers. The Global Delivery Service gives the Company the flexibility to deliver to each customer a customized mix of integrated on-site, off-site and offshore services to meet varying customer needs for direct interaction with Syntel personnel, access to technical expertise and best practices, resource availability and cost-effective delivery. 10 Table of Contents Through on-site service delivery at the customer’s location, the Company is able to gain comprehensive knowledge concerning the customer’s personnel, processes, technology and culture, and maintain direct customer contact to facilitate project management, problem solving and integration of Syntel services. Offshore service delivery at the Company’s Indian locations provides the customer with the capacity to receive around-the- clock attention to applications maintenance and project development for faster turnaround, greater availability of resources and expertise resident in India. The Company has developed global recruiting and training programs, which have efficiently provided skilled professionals to meet customer needs. In addition, the Company’s sales, solutions and delivery functions are closely integrated in the Global Delivery Service so that appropriate resources can be provided to the customer at the right time and at the most advantageous location. Each customer is tracked and serviced through a multi-stage customer care process. Regular meetings are held with key project management, sales, technical, legal and finance personnel to monitor progress, identify issues and discuss solutions. As engagements evolve and customer needs change, the Company can reallocate resources responsively among these locations as necessary. The Company’s Global Development Centers located in Pune, Mumbai and Chennai, India and a Support Center located at Cary, North Carolina support the Company’s Global Delivery Service. The Company has acquired 78 acres of land situated in Pune, out of which 40 acres of land is used for construction of a state-of-the-art development and training campus in Pune, India. Phase 1 of the construction was completed in August 2006, which included an office building for 950 seats, a food court and hotel. In February 2007, the Company completed 2 office buildings with more than 2,000 seats. When fully completed, the facility will cover over 1 million square feet and have capacity for 9,000 seats. It will be both a customer and employee- focused facility, including such amenities as training facilities, cafeteria and fitness center. The remaining 38 acres of land that is adjacent to this campus has been designated as a Special Economic Zone (“SEZ”) by the Government of India. The Company has already completed construction of 2 office buildings in the SEZ area with more than 2,000 seats. In addition, Syntel leases two facilities in Pune, India consisting of approximately 45,463 square feet. The Mumbai, India Global Development Center, which employed 4,162 persons, including onsite deputations outside Mumbai, as of December 31, 2009, serves as the hub of the Company’s Indian operations. This Global Development Center provides substantial resource depth to meet customer needs around the world, low-cost service delivery, a 24-hour customer assistance center and development of technical solutions and expertise. Mumbai also serves as the principal recruiting and training center for the Company. The Mumbai Center has been in operation for over a decade and has a capacity of approximately 4,079 people including KPO operations. The Chennai Training and Global Development Center employed, including onsite deputations outside Chennai, 1,981 persons as of December 31, 2009. The Chennai facility has a capacity of approximately 1,679 persons. The Company has acquired approximately 29 acres of land in an Information Technology Park in Chennai, India. This area of land has been designated as a Special Economic Zone (SEZ) by the government of India. In Phase 1 the Company is constructing 0.7 million square feet of space. This consists of 3 Software Development Blocks each with a capacity of 1,700 seats, a Food Court with seating capacity of 1,000, a Training Block with seating capacity of 1,200, a Welcome Block, a Recreation Block and a 11 Table of Contents Utility Block. Phase 1 is scheduled for substantial completion in the first half of 2010. Syntel leases approximately 132,584 square feet of office space in Mumbai, India under eleven leases expiring ranging from January 10, 2011 to April 16, 2012. These facilities house IT professionals as well as its senior management, finance and accounts, administrative personnel, human resources, recruiting, and sales and marketing functions. For facilitating its KPO operations, Syntel has leased 175,605 square feet of office space in Mumbai, India under five leases expiring on dates ranging between May 12, 2010 to June 16, 2012. Syntel leases approximately 153,545 square feet of office space in Chennai, India, under three leases expiring on dates ranging between January 19, 2011 to September 22, 2012, all subject to the Company’s option to renew for additional periods. Syntel leases approximately 4,000 square feet of office space in Gurgaon, India under a lease agreement expiring on March 31, 2010. It has signed a new lease commencing from 10th February 2010 and expiring on 9th February 2015 The Company believes that space availability in Mumbai, Pune, Gurgaon and Chennai will accommodate short-term facility requirements and the new campuses in Pune and Chennai will enable the Company to meet offshore growth requirements for the next several years. The Company is also considering expanding its footprint in both major and emerging population centers in India to meet its growth objectives. SALES AND MARKETING The Company markets and sells services directly through a professional sales team and senior management team operating principally from the Company’s offices in Santa Clara, California; Phoenix, Arizona; Schaumburg, Illinois; Miami, Florida; Minneapolis, Minnesota; New York, New York; Troy, Michigan; Cary, North Carolina; Nashville, Tennessee; Memphis, Tennessee; Natick, Massachusetts; Framingham, Massachusetts; London, UK; Hong Kong; Stuttgart and Munich, Germany; Singapore; Paris, France; Toronto, Canada; Ireland and Australia. The sales staff is aligned by industry vertical, with each salesperson provided the authority to pursue Applications Outsourcing, KPO, e-Business and to a much lesser degree, TeamSourcing opportunities. The sales team is supported by technical and subject matter experts from the Company’s delivery teams. The Company also augmented its onsite sales team with an India-based sales team along with the Syntel Direct team. The sales cycle for Applications Outsourcing engagements ranges from six to twelve months, depending on the complexity of the engagement. Due to long sales cycles, Applications Outsourcing sales executives follow an integrated sales process for the development of an engagement. The sales teams submit proposals and solutions to the clients, and receive ongoing input from the Company’s technical services, pre-sales, delivery, finance and legal departments throughout the entire sales process. The Applications Outsourcing sales process also typically involves customer interaction at more senior levels of management than the TeamSourcing sales process. The sales cycle for KPO engagements, from initial contact to execution of an agreement varies by type of service, account size, on the complexity of the engagement and ranges from six to twelve months and in some cases for more than a year. 12 Table of Contents The sales cycle for an e-Business engagement, from initial contact to execution of an agreement, varies by type of service and account size, it typically ranges from one to six months, depending upon the complexity of the engagements. The sales cycle for large, fixed price e-Business engagement is similar to that of Applications Outsourcing engagements. The sales cycle for partnership software installations is generally one to six months. The associated software installation engagements are generally short, lasting one to three months. The Company’s Strategic Operations Group (SOG) team supports the Company’s sales team in this area. The sales cycle for TeamSourcing engagements, from initial contact to execution of an agreement, varies by type of service and account size, but is typically completed within 30 days. TeamSourcing engagements are essentially developed from existing customers as the Company focuses its attention on growing the Applications Outsourcing, KPO and e-Business segments. Syntel’s marketing organization strives to build and support the Syntel brand as well as generate awareness and leads for the Company’s service offerings. The Company’s current marketing initiatives include online advertising, webcasts, conference sponsorship and attendance, direct mail campaigns, case studies, and public relations aimed at CEOs, CIOs and CFOs of Global 2000 companies. In addition, Syntel’s marketing team maintains ongoing relationships with leading industry analysts such as Gartner Group and Forrester Research, to ensure analysts have a good understanding of Syntel’s offerings and positioning. Syntel’s marketing group manages the Company’s market research and also helps in building proposals along with the sales team. HUMAN RESOURCES The Company believes that its human resources are its most valuable asset. As of December 31, 2009, the Company globally had 12,567 full-time employees including a billable headcount of 9,228 providing a wide range of Information Technology and Knowledge Process Outsourcing professional services to Syntel’s customers. A majority of the Company’s professional employees have a Bachelor of Science / Technology / Commerce degree or its equivalent, or higher degrees in computer science, engineering disciplines, commerce, management, finance and other areas. Their experience level ranges from entry-level programmers and process associates, to engagement managers and senior consultants with over 20 years of IT / KPO experience. The Company has personnel who are experienced in mainframe, client/server and open systems technologies, business and knowledge processes, and proficient in a variety of computer programming languages, software tools, database management systems, networks, testing, investment operations, asset management and financial services. The Company has implemented a management structure and human resources organization intended to maximize the Company’s ability to efficiently expand its professional staff. The Company believes that it has the capability to meet its anticipated future staffing needs for IT and KPO professionals through its established recruiting, talent management and training programs. Recruiting. The Company has developed a recruiting methodology and organization which is a core competency. The Company has significantly expanded its international-based recruiting team, with recruiters in Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi and Pune, India, to recruit for the Company’s global requirements. The Company also has a recruiting team focused on U.S. and International hiring which recruits across the Company’s global 13 Table of Contents locations. The Company uses a standardized global selection process that includes written tests, interviews and reference checks. Among the Company’s other recruiting techniques are the placement of advertisements on its own web site and popular job boards, in newspapers and trade magazines, providing bonuses to its employees who refer qualified applicants, participating in job fairs, partnering with and recruiting on university campuses. In addition, the Company has developed a database of talent pipeline hosted on the Company’s internal Intranet, which has an automated workflow for managing the phases of recruiting. This system enhances the ability of the Company’s recruiters to select appropriate candidates and manage the interview, selection and offer process through a streamlined workflow. Talent Management. The Company seeks to provide meaningful support to its employees which the Company believes leads to improved employee retention, and better quality services to its customers. A significant percentage of the Company’s employees have been recruited from outside the U.S., and are constantly deployed to global locations from which the Company operates. As a result of this approach, Syntel has developed a significant knowledge base in making foreign professionals quickly oriented and productive across its global locations. STEP (Syntel Talent Engagement Program) is a structured performance management program that has become firmly ingrained in the Company’s culture. Detailed business discussions are conducted, spanning across the organization flowing upwards from manager level to leadership team. Talent summaries, short-term and long-term talent plans, and future leadership identification are executed as the part of these business discussions. The entire process is also managed end-to-end through the digitized e-PMD (Performance Management Document) Tool, which has excellent conformance. The Company also conducts regular career planning sessions with its employees, and seeks to meet their career goals over a long-term planning horizon. Apart from the knowledge and skills that are critical for each position, the Company measures the personal attributes and the value match which is fundamental for any employee. The five core Values which each Syntel employee embodies are tested during the selection itself. These five Values are Simple, Speed, Smart, Synergy, and Stretch, where Integrity is the foundation underlying the above core values. The Values are also reinforced during the appraisal process, which imparts great significance to the Values scores. Each of these Values is well defined, and assessors are coached on how to gauge them at various levels. As part of its retention strategy, the Company strives to provide a competitive compensation and benefits package, including relocation reimbursement and support, short-term and long-term bonus plans, medical insurance, dental options, a vision eye-care program, life insurance, long-term and short-term disability options, a 401(k) plan, and a tuition subsidy plan. Training. The Company uses a number of established training delivery mechanisms in its efforts to provide a consistent and reliable talent pool of qualified IT and KPO professionals. To empower our employees to live our Mission, Syntel introduces new training modules annually, with the core dimensions of training in the IT sector being Technical, Domain and Management. The employees in Syntel are sponsored for certifications in all these areas. Syntel has also entered into an alliance with Carnegie Mellon University in the United States for certifications for the iCarnegie e-Learning courses for developers and testers. 14 Table of Contents Syntel training programs in management cover management of projects, engagements and business processes. Syntel has been a “Registered Education Provider” for “Project Management Institute” (PMI) in the United States for over a decade. “Project Management” training is imparted internally by Syntel and externally by “International Institute of Learning” in the United States as per “PMI guidelines”. The domain training programs cover Insurance and Healthcare training in Property and Casualty, Life and Annuities, and Payer and Provider areas as per AICPCU/IIA, LOMA and AHIP guidelines. All other domain training is tailored as per the market needs, and go through various levels of training based on competencies. The training programs in technology cover languages, databases, operating systems, application servers, portal builders, infrastructure library management (ITIL) and packaged tools in the ERP, EAI and BI arena. These are delivered by instructor-led classroom sessions or on-line via e-Learning programs on Syntel’s e-Learning subscription sites. The training team runs a variety of functional training programs which are project specific such as Capital Markets training, Fund Accounting training, Transaction Processing, and others. The Company also helps its leaders become its brand ambassadors by imparting Management Development Programs like operational programs for Team Leaders such as SAIL®, Train to Retain (T2R), Train the Trainer (TTT), Leadership and the Effectiveness Assessment Program (LEAP). These programs instill leadership values in its managers. The Company also runs programs like Email Etiquette, Presentation Skills, Business Communication, Business Etiquette and many more such soft skills modules to help build a strong base of employees. Also, the Company ensures that employees lead a very fulfilling life even when at work, by being able to de-stress themselves through life enrichment sessions like Yoga, desktop Yoga, music therapy, craft and art sessions. Syntel has very clearly laid out its Vision, Mission and Values to its employees. These statements are simple to understand and are very well defined, communicated and reinforced through management communication (town halls / e-mails / print collateral), induction programs, quizzes, rewards and recognitions programs, and celebration of successes. The Company also celebrates its Mission and Values through special programs like the Syntel Star Awards, Values Awards and Innovation Awards which create tremendous response, along with phenomenal business results. COMPETITION The IT and KPO services industry is intensely competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. The Company competes with a variety of other companies, depending on the IT and KPO services it offers. The Company’s primary competitors include system integrator firms, application software companies, professional services groups of computer equipment companies, and contract programming companies. The Company’s most direct competitors in IT include Cognizant, Infosys Technologies, Tata Consultancy Services and Wipro Technologies that utilize an integrated on-site/offshore business model comparable to that used by the Company. The Company also competes with large IT service providers with greater resources, such as Accenture and IBM Global Services. The Company is also seeing increased competition from non-Indian sources such as Eastern Europe and the Philippines. In addition, the Company competes with numerous smaller local companies in the various geographic markets in which the Company operates. In KPO, the Company primarily competes with other offshore KPO vendors including HCL, Wipro 15 Table of Contents Technologies and WNS. Many of the Company’s customers choose to work with more than one service provider and contract with an individual provider to work on specific engagements that best match that provider’s expertise. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Syntel makes available free of charge, through its website, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15 (d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The URL for Syntel’s web site is www.syntelinc.com. 16 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of the Registrant, their ages, and the position or office held by each, are as follows: NAME AGE POSITION Bharat Desai 57 Chairman and Director Prashant Ranade 57 Chief Executive Officer, President and Director Arvind S. Godbole 52 Chief Financial Officer and Chief Information Security Officer Daniel M. Moore 55 Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Anil Jain 51 Senior Vice President, Business Unit Head—Insurance Vertical R. S. Ramdas 55 Senior Vice President, Procurement and Global Taxation Rakesh Khanna 47 President, Business Unit Head—Banking and Financial Services Vertical Lakshmanan Chidambaram 46 Vice President, Head Sales—U.S. and Canada Murlidhar Reddy 40 Vice President, Operations Head,—Healthcare and Life Sciences Vertical V. S. Raj 46 Vice President, Chief Executive Officer of State Street Syntel Services Private Limited Raja Ray 47 Senior Vice President, Business Unit Head, Diversified Vertical Bharat Desai is a co-founder of Syntel and serves as its Chairman of the Board and as a director. He served as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer from the Company’s formation through February 2009 and has been the Chairman of Syntel’s Board of Directors since February 1999. He also served as the Company’s President from its formation until December 2006. Prashant Ranade was appointed as Chief Executive Officer and President of 17 Table of Contents the Company in February 2010. He has served as a director of Syntel since June 2007. From May 2003 to November 2006, Mr. Ranade served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens Group Logistics and Assembly Systems, NA (currently Dematic GmbH & Co. KG), a company that is principally involved in material handling logistics and automation. Mr. Ranade served on the board of directors at Dematic until July 2007. Arvind Godbole was appointed Chief Financial Officer in December 2006 after being appointed Interim Chief Financial Officer in June 2006. Mr. Godbole was appointed the Company’s Chief Information Security Officer in June 2006. He has been with the Company as Corporate Controller since March 2001 and had also been a member of the Procurement Team along with his usual functions as a controller. Daniel M. Moore has served the Company as Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary and since August 1998. Anil Jain was appointed as Senior Vice President, Business Unit Head—Insurance Vertical in February 2006. Mr. Jain has been with Syntel since 1993 serving in a number of client relationship and IT service delivery capacities. R.S. Ramdas was appointed as Senior Vice President in July 2006 and became a member of the leadership team in February 2006. As a Senior Vice President, Mr. Ramdas has been involved with finance, internal audit, procurement, and global taxation. Mr. Ramdas served as Vice President of Syntel from March 2004 to January 2006. Rakesh Khanna was appointed as President, Business Unit Head—Banking and Financial Services Vertical for the Company in July 2005. Prior to joining Syntel, Mr. Khanna served in senior management at erstwhile IFLEX Solutions Ltd., a company specializing in software products and services for banks and financial service institutions, from September 1996 to July 2005. Lakshmanan Chidambaram was appointed as Vice President, Head Sales—U.S. and Canada in January 2007. Mr. Chidambaram was Head of Sales, Banking and Financial Services and Insurance Business units in February 2006, and in December 2006, assumed responsibility for Automotive, Healthcare and Diversified Businesses sales. Mr. Chidambaram joined Syntel in 2001 and has served in a variety of sales positions. Murlidhar Reddy was appointed as Vice President, Operations Head, Healthcare and Life Sciences Vertical in July 2006 and has been with Syntel since November 2003 serving in various IT service delivery capacities. V. S. Raj was appointed as Vice President and the Chief Executive Officer of State Street Syntel Services Private Limited in October 2008. Prior to joining Syntel, Mr. Raj served as Vice President and Site Manager for JPMorgan Chase & Co., a global financial services provider, in Bangalore from June 2005 to October 2008. From June 2000 to June 2005, Mr. Raj was Vice President and Quality Leader for GE Capital International Services, part of General Electric Company’s financial services unit. Raja Ray was appointed as Senior Vice President and Business Unit Head, Diversified Vertical in August 2009. Prior to joining Syntel, Mr. Ray served as an Assistant Vice President in the consumer packaged goods vertical at Cognizant Technology Solutions from June to July 2009, as an Application Sales Leader at EDS an HP Company from May 2008 to May 2009, and in various positions at Tata Consultancy Services from February 1990 to March 2008. All three previous companies are IT services providers. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors should be considered carefully when evaluating our business. The continued uncertainty and negative conditions in the worldwide economic markets could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Worldwide financial systems and economic conditions are under stress. The Company’s customers may curtail their spending programs, which could result in a decrease in demand for the Company’s services. In addition, certain of the Company’s customers could experience an inability to pay suppliers. Likewise, suppliers may be unable to sustain their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations, each of which could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s business could be materially adversely affected if one of the Company’s significant clients terminates its engagement of the Company or if there is a downturn in one of the industries the Company serves. The Company has in the past derived, and believes will continue to derive, a significant portion of its revenues from a limited number of large, corporate clients. The Company’s ten largest clients generated approximately 75%, 71% and 73% of the Company’s total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company’s largest client for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was American Express, which generated approximately 21%, 20% and 19% of the Company’s total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company’s second largest client is State Street Bank which generated approximately 20%, 20% and 17% of the Company’s total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, for both KPO and IT services. The Company expects to continue to derive a significant portion of the Company’s revenues from American Express and State Street Bank. Failure to meet a client’s expectations could result in cancellation or non-renewal of the Company’s engagement and could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely affect its ability to attract new business. Many of the Company’s contracts, including all of the Company’s contracts with its ten largest clients, are terminable by the client with limited notice to the Company and without compensation beyond payment for the professional services rendered through the date of termination. An unanticipated termination of a significant engagement could result in the loss of substantial anticipated revenues. The loss of any significant client or engagement could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company also derived, and expects to continue to derive, a significant portion of its revenues from clients in certain industries, including the financial services, insurance and healthcare industries. Clients in the financial services industry generated approximately 57%, 55% and 48% of the Company’s revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. A downturn in the financial services industry or other industries from which the Company derives significant revenues could result in less revenue from current and potential clients in such industry and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Company’s KPO services to State Street Bank and two other clients for the year are provided through a joint venture between the Company and an affiliate of State Street Bank. Sales of KPO services only 19 Table of Contents to these three clients represented approximately 17% of the Company’s total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, and approximately 16% and 14% of the Company’s total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The current master agreement under which the Company is able to provide KPO services to these three clients appoints the Company as an authorized provider but does not require that the clients use the Company for KPO services. KPO services are ordered through separate work orders as may be agreed to by the clients and the Company from time to time. The master agreement is terminable on short notice, has no minimum volume commitments and has an initial expiration date in February 2012 with the ability to extend by mutual consent for up to three additional one year terms. Commencing in February 2010, the State Street Bank affiliate through a separate shareholders agreement has the right to purchase the Company’s interest in the joint venture at an agreed-upon formula price. The exercise of this purchase right would have the effect of terminating the Company’s ability to provide KPO services to these three clients and transferring some related KPO professionals and assets to the State Street Bank affiliate. The State Street Bank affiliate exercise of the purchase right under the shareholders agreement could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The State Street Bank affiliate has waived its right to exercise the purchase right through March 31, 2010 and may extend its waiver for one or more additional periods of 30 days. The Company has been discussing for several months with our joint venture partner possible modification of the joint venture and the terms and conditions of the master agreement and the shareholders agreement, including but not limited to an extension of the master agreement, modification of the option to purchase the joint venture under the shareholders agreement, volume commitments and economics, as well as other terms and conditions. While discussions continue, there can be no assurance that an agreement to modify the joint venture will be reached. A date by which the current discussions will be finalized or terminated cannot be determined at this time. Any agreement to modify the joint venture and the terms and conditions upon which KPO services may be provided by the joint venture could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition depending on the terms of any such an agreement. Failure to reach an agreement does not affect the current KPO services or the current KPO master agreement which as stated above is terminable on short notice, has no minimum volume commitments and has an initial expiration date in February 2012 with the ability to extend by mutual consent for up to three additional one year terms. The Company’s business could be materially adversely affected if there were a default in providing contracted services and that default resulted in damages that were substantially in excess of current insurance coverage or there were a denial of an insurance claim by the Company’s insurance carriers. The Company provides information technology and KPO services that are integral to our client’s businesses. If the Company were to default in the provision of contractually agreed-upon services, Company clients could suffer significant damages and make claims upon the Company for those damages. Although the Company believes it has adequate processes in place to protect against defaults in the provisions of services, errors may occur, particularly in KPO services which are more transactional in nature. The Company currently carries $25 million in errors and omissions liability coverage for all services provided by the Company other than the joint venture between the Company and an affiliate of State Street Bank. 20 Table of Contents That joint venture currently carries $10 million in errors and omissions coverage. To the extent client damages were deemed recoverable against the Company and were substantially in excess of the Company’s insurance coverage, or if the Company’s claims for insurance coverage were denied by the Company’s insurance carriers for any reason including, but not limited to a Company client’s failure to provide insurance carrier-required documentation or a Company client’s failure to follow insurance carrier-required claim settlement procedures, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified professionals could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s business of delivering professional services is labor intensive, and accordingly, the Company’s success depends upon the Company’s ability to attract, develop, motivate, retain and effectively utilize highly-skilled professionals. The Company believes that there is a growing shortage of, and significant competition for, professionals who possess the technical skills and experience necessary to deliver the Company’s services, both in the United States and in India, and that such professionals are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. The Company believes that as a result of these factors, the Company operates within an industry that experiences a significant rate of annual turnover of personnel. The Company’s business plans are based on hiring and training a significant number of additional professionals each year to meet anticipated turnover and increased staffing needs. The Company’s ability to maintain and renew existing engagements and to obtain new business depends, in large part, on the Company’s ability to hire and retain qualified professionals. The Company performs a portion of the Company’s employee recruitment for U.S. positions in foreign countries, particularly India. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, attrition was 11%, 14% and 14%, respectively. For the same periods, the number of net hires was 204, 654 and 3,345, respectively. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to recruit and train a sufficient number of qualified professionals or that the Company will be successful in retaining current or future employees. Increased hiring by technology companies, particularly in India, and increasing worldwide competition for skilled technology professionals may lead to a shortage in the availability of qualified personnel in the markets in which the Company operates and hires. Failure to hire and train or retain qualified professionals in sufficient numbers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Government regulation of immigration and work permits/visas could impact the Company’s ability to effectively utilize the Company’s Global Delivery Model. The Company recruits professionals on a global basis and, therefore, must comply with the immigration and work permit/visa laws and regulations of the countries in which the Company operates or plans to operate. As of December 31, 2009, 689 IT professionals, representing approximately 5% of the Company’s worldwide workforce provided services under work permits/visas. The Company’s inability to obtain sufficient work permits/visas due to the impact of these regulations, including any changes to immigration and work permit/visa regulations in particular jurisdictions, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Government taxation of the Company could reduce the Company’s overall profitability. Our Indian subsidiaries are export-oriented companies which, under the Indian Income Tax Act of 1961, are entitled to claim tax holidays for a period of ten consecutive years for each Software Technology Park (STP) with respect to export profits for each STP. Substantially all of the earnings of our Indian subsidiaries are attributable to export profits. The majority of our STPs in India are currently entitled to a 100% exemption from Indian income tax. Under current law, these tax holidays will be completely phased out by March 31, 2011. Under current Indian tax law, export profits after March 31, 2011 from our existing STPs will be fully taxable at the Indian statutory rate (33.99% as of December 31, 2009) in effect at such time. If the tax holidays relating to our Indian STPs are not extended or new tax incentives are not introduced that would effectively extend the income tax holiday benefits beyond March 31, 2011, we expect that our effective income tax rate would increase significantly beginning in calendar year 2011. In anticipation of the complete phase out of the tax holidays on March 31, 2011, we expect to continue to locate a portion of our new development centers in areas designated as Special Economic Zones (SEZs). Development centers operating in SEZs will be entitled to certain income tax incentives for periods of up to 15 years. The Indian government has proposed certain interpretive positions regarding the tax incentives applicable to SEZs. The Indian government has discussed making further changes in the SEZ policies which could be adverse to our operations. Certain of our development centers currently operate in SEZs and many of our future planned development centers are likely to operate in SEZs. A change in the Indian government’s policies affecting SEZs in a manner that adversely impacts the incentives for establishing and operating facilities in SEZs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The United States government is discussing and other countries’ governments may discuss increased corporate taxation including the possibility of taxing profits generated by the Company outside the country of taxation. Increased corporate taxation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The IT services and KPO industry are intensely competitive, and the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The IT services and KPO industry are intensely competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. The Company competes with a variety of other companies, depending on the services offered. In Applications Outsourcing and e-Business services, the Company primarily competes with domestic firms such as Accenture, Cognizant, EDS and IBM Global Services and with an increasing number of India-based companies including Infosys Technologies, Tata Consultancy Services and Wipro Technologies. The Company is also seeing increased competition from non-Indian sources such as Eastern Europe and the Philippines. In KPO, the Company primarily competes with other offshore KPO vendors including HCL, Wipro Technologies and WNS. In professional IT staffing engagements, the Company’s primary competitors include participants from a variety of market segments, including systems consulting and implementation firms, applications software development and maintenance firms, service groups of computer equipment companies and temporary staffing firms. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources and 22 Table of Contents greater name recognition than the Company does. As a result, they may be able to compete more aggressively on pricing, respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements, or devote greater resources to the development and promotion of IT services and KPO than the Company does. India-based companies also present significant price competition due to their competitive cost structures and tax advantages. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into the Company’s markets and the Company has faced, and expects to continue to face, additional competition from new IT service and KPO providers. Further, there is a risk that the Company’s clients may elect to increase their internal resources to satisfy their services needs as opposed to relying on a third-party vendor. The IT services industry is also undergoing consolidation, which may result in increased competition in the Company’s target markets. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors or that competitive pressures will not materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Variability of Quarterly Operating Results. The Company has experienced and expects to continue to experience fluctuations in revenues and operating results from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including: the timing, number and scope of customer engagements commenced and completed during the quarter; progress on fixed-price engagements; timing and cost associated with expansion of the Company’s facilities; changes in professional wage rates; the accuracy of estimates of resources and time frames required to complete pending assignments; the number of working days in a quarter; employee hiring, attrition and utilization rates; the mix of services performed on-site, off-site and offshore; termination of engagements; start-up expenses for new engagements; length of sales cycles; customers’ budget cycles; and investment time for training. Because a significant percentage of the Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses are relatively fixed, variations in revenues may cause significant variations in operating results. It is possible that the Company’s operating results could be below or above the expectations of market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of the Company’s common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. No assurance can be given that quarterly results will not fluctuate causing an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition at the time. Our international sales and operations are subject to many uncertainties. Revenues from customers outside North America represented approximately 8% of the Company’s revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company anticipates that revenues from customers outside North America will continue to account for a material portion of the Company’s revenues in the foreseeable future and may increase as we expand our international presence, particularly in Europe. Risks associated with international operations include the burden in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, quotas and other barriers and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. In addition, we may face competition in other countries from companies that may have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations. We may also face difficulties integrating employees that we hire in different countries into our existing corporate culture. Our international expansion plans may not be successful and we may not be able to compete effectively in other countries. There can be no assurance that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Terrorist activity, war or natural disasters could make travel and communication more difficult and adversely affect the Company’s business. Terrorist activity, war or natural disasters could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist activities, other acts of violence or war, or natural disasters have recently occurred in India, the United States and in other countries around the world and have the potential to have a direct impact on the Company’s clients. Such events may disrupt the Company’s ability to communicate between the Company’s various Global Development Centers and between the Company’s Global Development Centers and the Company’s clients’ sites, make travel more difficult, make it more difficult to obtain work visas for many of the Company’s technology professionals and effectively curtail the Company’s ability to deliver the Company’s services to the Company’s clients. Such obstacles to business may increase the Company’s expenses and materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, many of the Company’s clients visit several technology services firms prior to reaching a decision on vendor selection. Terrorist activity, war or natural disasters could make travel more difficult and delay, postpone or cancel decisions to use the Company’s services. The Company’s fixed-price engagements may commit the Company to unfavorable terms. The Company undertakes development and maintenance engagements, which are billed on a fixed-price basis, in addition to the engagements billed on time-and-materials basis. Fixed-price revenues from development and maintenance activity represented approximately 45%, 38% and 38% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Any failure to estimate the resources and time required to complete a fixed-price engagement on time and to the required quality levels or any unexpected increase in the cost to the Company of IT professionals, office space or materials could expose the Company to risks associated with cost overruns and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s Applications Outsourcing and KPO services require increased attention from senior management. The Company has invested incrementally in the development of the Company’s Applications Outsourcing business, with increased focus on outsourcing services for ongoing applications management, development and maintenance and KPO services. Applications Outsourcing and KPO services generally require a longer sales cycle (up to twelve months) and generally require approval by more senior levels of management within the client’s organization, as compared with traditional IT staffing services. Pursuing such sales requires significant investment of time, including the Company’s senior management, and may not result in additional business. There can be no assurance that the Company’s increased focus on the Company’s Applications Outsourcing and KPO practices will be successful, and any failure of such strategy could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Future legislation in the United States and abroad could significantly impact the ability of the Company’s clients to utilize the Company’s services. The issue of companies outsourcing services abroad has become a topic of political discussion in the United States and other countries. Measures aimed at limiting or restricting outsourcing have been enacted in a few states, and there is currently legislation restricting outsourcing pending or being discussed in several states and at the federal level. The 24 Table of Contents measures that have been enacted to date have not significantly adversely affected the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that pending or future legislation that would significantly adversely affect the Company’s business will not be enacted. If enacted, such measures are likely to fall within two categories: (1) a broadening of restrictions on outsourcing by government agencies and on government contracts with firms that outsource services directly or indirectly, and/or (2) measures that impact private industry, such as tax disincentives, restrictions on the transfer or maintenance of certain information abroad and/or intellectual property transfer restrictions. In the event that any such measures are enacted, or if the prospect of such measures being enacted increases, the ability of the Company’s clients to utilize its services could be restricted or become less economical and the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Wage pressures in India may reduce the Company’s profit margins. Wage pressures in India may prevent the Company from sustaining the Company’s competitive advantage and may reduce the Company’s profit margins. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 80% of the Company’s billable workforce was in India, and the Company anticipates that this percentage will increase over time. Wage costs in India have historically been lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of the Company’s competitive strengths. However, wage increases in India may prevent the Company from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect the Company’s profit margins. Wages in India are increasing at a faster rate than in the United States, which could result in increased costs for technology professionals. Compensation increases may result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s future success depends on its ability to market new services to the Company’s existing and new clients. The Company has been expanding the nature and scope of its engagements by extending the breadth of services the Company offers. The success of the Company’s service offerings depends, in part, upon continued demand for such services by the Company’s existing and new clients and the Company’s ability to meet this demand in a cost competitive and effective manner. The Company’s new service offerings may not effectively meet client needs, and the Company may be unable to attract existing and new clients to these service offerings. The increased breadth of the Company’s service offerings may also result in larger and more complex client projects, which will require that the Company establish closer relationships with its clients, and potentially with other technology service providers and vendors, and develop a more thorough understanding of the Company’s clients’ operations. The Company’s ability to establish these relationships will depend on a number of factors including the proficiency of the Company’s technology professionals and its management personnel and the willingness of the Company’s existing and potential clients to provide it with information about their businesses. If the Company is not able to successfully market and provide the Company’s new and broader service offerings, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The Company depends on the efforts and ability of key personnel. The Company’s success is highly dependent on the efforts and abilities of its key personnel. The diminution or loss of the services of key personnel for any reason could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents The Company may be affected by political and regulatory conditions in India. A significant element of the Company’s business strategy is to continue to develop and expand offshore Global Development Centers in India. Changes in the political or regulatory climate of India, including the following, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition: • Political climate—In the past, India has experienced inflation and shortages of foreign currency and has been subject to civil and political unrest. No assurance can be given that the Company will not be adversely affected by changes in inflation, exchange rate fluctuations, currency controls, interest rates, tax provisions, social stability or other political, economic or diplomatic developments in or affecting India. • Changes in liberalization policies of the government—The Indian government is involved in, and exerts influence over, its economy. In the recent past, the Indian government has provided tax incentives and relaxed certain regulatory restrictions in order to encourage foreign investment in certain sectors of the economy, including the technology industry. Certain of these benefits directly benefited the Company including, among others, tax holidays, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment. There can be no assurance that these benefits will be continued or that other similar benefits will be provided in future periods. The Company’s margins may be adversely affected if demand for the Company’s services slows. If demand for the Company’s services slows, the Company’s utilization and billing rates for its technology professionals could be adversely affected, which may result in lower gross and operating profits. The Company is subject to risks of fluctuation in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Indian rupee. The Company holds a significant amount of its cash in U.S. dollars and in Indian rupees. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, other income, cost of services, gross margin and net income, which may in turn have a negative impact on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. The exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar has changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. The Company expects that a majority of the Company’s revenues will continue to be generated in U.S. dollars for the foreseeable future and that a significant portion of the Company’s expenses, including personnel costs, as well as capital and operating expenditures, will continue to be denominated in Indian rupees. Consequently, the results of the Company’s operations may be adversely affected if the Indian rupee appreciates against the U.S. dollar and an effective foreign exchange hedging program is not in place. The Company may not be able to successfully manage the rapid growth of the Company’s business. The Company has recently experienced a period of rapid growth in revenues that places significant demands on the Company’s managerial, administrative and operational resources. Additionally, the longer-term 26 Table of Contents transition in the Company’s delivery mix from onsite to offshore staffing has also placed additional operational and structural demands on the Company. The Company’s future growth depends on recruiting, hiring and training professionals, increasing the Company’s international operations, expanding its U.S. and offshore capabilities, adding effective sales and management staff and adding service offerings. Effective management of these and other growth initiatives will require that the Company continue to improve its infrastructure, execution standards and ability to expand services. Failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on the quality of the Company’s services and engagements, the Company’s ability to attract and retain professionals, the Company’s prospects and the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s business could be adversely affected if the Company does not anticipate and respond to technology advances in the Company’s and the Company’s clients’ industries. The Company’s business will suffer if the Company fails to anticipate and develop new services and enhance existing services in order to keep pace with rapid changes in technology and in the industries on which the Company focuses. The technology services and KPO markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and frequent new product and service introductions. The Company’s future success will depend on the Company’s ability to anticipate these advances and develop new product and service offerings to meet the Company’s existing and potential clients’ needs. The Company may fail to anticipate or respond to these advances in a timely manner, or, if the Company does respond, the services or technologies the Company develops may not be successful in the marketplace. Further, products, services or technologies that are developed by the Company’s competitors may render the Company’s services non-competitive or obsolete. If the Company does not respond effectively to these changes, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The Company may be required to include benchmarking provisions in future engagements, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and profitability. As the size and duration of the Company’s client engagements increase, the Company’s current and future clients may require benchmarking provisions. Benchmarking provisions generally allow a client in certain circumstances to request that a benchmark study be prepared by an agreed-upon third-party comparing the Company’s pricing, performance and efficiency gains for delivered contract services to that of an agreed-upon list of other service providers for comparable services. Based on the results of the benchmark study and depending on the reasons for an unfavorable variance, if any, the Company could then be required to reduce the pricing for future services to be performed under the balance of the contract or to change the services being provided under the contract, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s revenues and profitability. The Company may be liable to its clients for disclosure of confidential information or if the Company does not fulfill its obligations under its engagements. The Company may be liable to the Company’s clients for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information or system failures. The Company is often required to collect and store sensitive or confidential client data. Many of the Company’s client agreements do not limit its potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. If any person, including any of the Company’s employees, penetrates the Company’s network security or 27 Table of Contents misappropriates sensitive data, the Company could be subject to significant liability from its clients or from their customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client data, whether through breach of the Company’s computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, could also damage the Company’s reputation and cause it to lose existing and potential clients. Many of the Company’s engagements involve IT services that are critical to the operations of the Company’s clients’ businesses. Any failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations in the performance of services could result in a claim for substantial damages against the Company, regardless of the Company’s responsibility for such failure. There can be no assurance that any limitations of liability set forth in the Company’s service contracts will be enforceable in all instances or would otherwise protect the Company from liability for damages. In addition, the costs of defending against any such claims, even if successful, could be significant. There can be no assurance that the Company’s insurance coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms, will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims or defense costs, or that the Company’s insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against the Company that are uninsured, exceed available insurance coverage or result in changes to the Company’s insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company relies on global telecommunications infrastructure to maintain communication between its various locations and the Company’s clients’ sites. Disruptions in telecommunications, system failures, or virus attacks could harm the Company’s ability to execute the Company’s Global Delivery Model, which could result in client dissatisfaction and a reduction of the Company’s revenues. A significant element of the Company’s Global Delivery Model is to continue to leverage and expand the Company’s Global Development Centers. The Company’s Global Development Centers are linked with a redundant telecommunications network architecture that uses multiple service providers and various satellite and optical links with alternate routing. The Company may not be able to maintain active voice and data communications between its various Global Development Centers and between the Company’s Global Development Centers and the Company’s clients’ sites at all times due to disruptions in these networks, system failures or virus attacks. Any significant failure in the Company’s ability to communicate could result in a disruption in business, which could hinder the Company’s performance or its ability to complete projects on time. This, in turn, could lead to client dissatisfaction and a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with the Company’s investment in new facilities and physical infrastructure. The Company’s business model includes developing and operating Global Development Centers in order to support the Company’s Global Delivery Service. The Company has Global Development Centers located in Mumbai, Pune and Chennai, India. The Company is in the process of expanding its Global Development Center in Pune and in creating a new Global Development Center in Chennai both on land located in Special Economic Zones (SEZ). With regard to the construction on land located in a SEZ, there are certain construction and other requirements that must be met in order to 28 Table of Contents maximize certain tax and other benefits. If those conditions are not met, Syntel may not be able to maximize all benefits associated with the SEZ designations. The full completion of the development of these facilities is contingent on many factors including the Company’s funding the continuation of the construction and obtaining appropriate construction and other permits from the Indian government. The Company cannot make any assurances that the construction of these facilities or any future facilities that the Company may develop will occur on a timely basis or that they will be completed. If the Company is unable to complete the construction of these facilities, the Company’s business, results of operation and financial condition will be adversely affected. In addition, the Company is developing these facilities in expectation of increased growth in the Company’s business. If the Company’s business does not grow as expected, the Company may not be able to benefit from its investment in this or other facilities. Existing, new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements increases management’s time spent on compliance, increases the cost of compliance and adds uncertainty to the Company’s compliance policies. Compliance with existing, new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to the Company’s compliance policies and increases the Company’s costs of compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards include those relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Global Select Market rules. These laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. In particular, the Company’s efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding required assessment of internal controls over financial reporting and the Company’s external auditors’ audit of that assessment requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. The Company consistently assesses the adequacy of internal controls over financial reporting, remediate any control deficiencies that may be identified, and validates through testing that the Company’s controls are functioning as documented. While the Company does not anticipate any material weaknesses, the inability of management and the Company’s independent auditor to provide an unqualified report as to the adequacy and effectiveness, respectively, of internal controls over financial reporting for future year ends could result in adverse consequences to the Company, including, but not limited to, a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of the Company’s financial statements, which could cause the market price of the Company’s stock to decline. Existing, new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. The Company’s efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, new laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for the Company to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, the Company’s board members and executive officers could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties. As a result, the Company may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm the Company’s business. If the Company fails to comply with new or changed laws or regulations and standards differ, the Company’s business and reputation may be harmed. 29 Table of Contents The Company’s business could be materially adversely affected if the Company does not protect its intellectual capital or if the Company’s services are found to infringe on the intellectual property of others. The Company’s success depends in part on certain methodologies, practices, tools and technical expertise the Company utilizes in designing, developing, implementing and maintaining applications and other proprietary intellectual capital. In order to protect the Company’s rights in this intellectual capital, the Company relies upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements as well as trade secret, copyright and trademark laws. The Company also generally enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, clients and potential clients and limit access to and distribution of the Company’s proprietary information. The Company holds several trademarks or service marks and intends to submit additional United States federal and foreign trademark applications for the names of additional service offerings in the future. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in maintaining existing or obtaining future trademarks. There can be no assurance that the laws, rules, regulations and treaties in effect now or in the future or the contractual and other protective measures the Company takes are adequate to protect it from misappropriation or unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual capital or that such laws, rules, regulations and treaties will not change. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce the Company’s rights or that any such steps will be successful. Misappropriation by others of the Company’s intellectual capital, including the costs of enforcing the Company’s intellectual capital rights, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. However, the Company is not significantly dependent on the referenced trademarks in the conduct of its business. Although the Company believes that its intellectual capital does not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that such a claim will not be asserted against the Company in the future or that any such claim, if asserted, would not be successful. The costs of defending any such claims could be significant and any successful claim could require the Company to modify, discontinue or change the manner in which the Company provides its services. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s earnings are affected by issuance of stock options and stock based awards to employees and directors. The Company expenses stock options and other stock-based awards in accordance with provisions prescribed by the authoritative guidance. The Company measures and recognizes compensation expense for all stock-based payments at fair value. Stock-based payments include stock option grants and other transactions under stock plans. The Company in the past has granted options to purchase common stock to some of its employees and directors under various plans at prices equal to the market value of the stock on the dates the options were granted. In addition, the Company has issued shares of incentive restricted stock to its non-employee directors and employees. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recorded $ 1.9 million of expense for equity-based compensation (including charges for restricted stock and dividend). The assumptions used in calculating and estimating future costs are highly subjective and changes in these assumptions could significantly affect the Company’s future earnings. 30 Table of Contents Any future business combinations, acquisitions or mergers would expose the Company to risks, including that the Company may not be able to successfully integrate any acquired businesses. The Company has expanded, and may continue to expand, the Company’s operations through the acquisition of additional businesses. Financing of any future acquisition could require the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of equity (common or preferred) or a combination thereof. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate any acquired businesses without substantial expense, delays or other operational or financial risks and problems. Furthermore, acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel, unanticipated events or legal liabilities and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, any client satisfaction or performance problems within an acquired firm could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s reputation as a whole. There can be no assurance that any acquired businesses would achieve anticipated revenues and earnings. Any failure to manage the Company’s acquisition strategy successfully could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s ability to repatriate earnings from its foreign operations is limited by tax laws. The Company treats earnings from its operations in India and other foreign countries as permanently invested outside the United States. If the Company repatriates any of such earnings, the Company will incur a dividend distribution tax for distribution from India, currently 17% under Indian tax law, and be required to pay United States corporate income taxes on such earnings. As of December 31, 2009, the estimated dividend distribution taxes and United States corporate taxes that would be due upon repatriation of accumulated earnings from the Company’s operations in India was approximately $94.4 million. If the Company decided to repatriate all undistributed repatriable earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009, the Company would have accrued taxes of approximately $140.6 million. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 