Item 1A. Risk Factors. We depend on contracts with U.S. government agencies for a substantial portion of our revenues. These government agencies can terminate their contracts at any time. Revenues from U.S. government contracts accounted for approximately 55 percent of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. U.S. government agencies may terminate or suspend their contracts at any time, with or without cause, or may change their policies, priorities or funding levels by reducing agency or program budgets or by imposing budgetary constraints. In addition, one or more of these government agencies may not continue to fund these contracts at current levels. Under the NextView imagery contract, the U.S. government has agreed to order approximately $197 million in imagery sales from GeoEye-1. Although we anticipate that the U.S. government will purchase imagery under this contract, we cannot assure you that they will order or purchase imagery up to the full level specified in the contract or at all. The timing of the receipt of orders from the U.S. government has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate. In addition, although we anticipate that these government agencies will continue to purchase imagery and imagery products from us after the termination of the contracts under the ClearView and NextView programs, we cannot assure you that they will continue to purchase at pre-termination levels or at all. If a U.S. government agency terminates or suspends any of its contracts with the Company or its subsidiaries, or changes its policies, priorities, or funding levels, these actions would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not successfully compete in the remote imaging industry. Our products and services compete with satellite and aircraft-based imagery and related products and services offered by a range of private and government providers. Certain of these competitors may have greater financial, personnel and other resources than we have. Our major existing U.S. competitor for high-resolution satellite imagery is DigitalGlobe, which operates two high-resolution satellites, Quickbird, which was launched in 2001, and WorldView-1, which was launched in September 2007 under NGA’s NextView program. DigitalGlobe has also announced that its WorldView-2 satellite is anticipated to be ready for launch in late 2008. Both WorldView satellites have higher resolution and more advanced technologies than IKONOS. In addition, we have historically had a competitive advantage against DigitalGlobe with international customers because our high resolution satellites had the capability to directly download imagery to customers’ ground stations. However, this advantage is no longer as strong because WorldView-1, unlike Quickbird, does have such capabilities. There are also several international competitors which compete with us now for high-resolution satellite imagery customers or will in the near future. These competitors include National Remote Sensing Agency, Department of Space, Government of India, RADARSAT International (Canada), ImageSat International N.V. (Israel) and Spot Image SA (France). Taiwan and Korea also have high resolution satellite programs. Our competitors or potential competitors with greater resources than ours could in the future offer satellite-based imagery or other products having more attractive features than our products. The emergence of new remote imaging technologies, even if not ultimately successful, could negatively affect our marketing efforts. More importantly, if competitors continue to develop and launch satellites with more advanced capabilities and technologies than ours, our business and results of operations could be harmed. 16 Although we derive revenue from the sale of imagery to certain on-line search engines, it is unclear whether or to what extent the distribution of imagery by such search engines will increase or decrease the demand for high quality satellite imagery. Governments may build and operate their own systems causing our potential market to shrink. The U.S. government and foreign governments also may develop, construct, launch and operate remote imaging satellites that generate imagery products and services. Those products and services could then replace their need to purchase our products and services. The U.S. government currently relies and is likely to continue to rely on government-owned and operated systems for classified satellite-based high-resolution imagery. The U.S. government is currently considering a model which could also reduce its purchases from commercial satellite imagery providers or decrease the number of companies to which it contracts with no corresponding increase in total amount spent, though no decisions have been made. Similarly, foreign governments may launch their own imagery satellites rather than purchasing imagery from commercial imagery providers such as us. In addition, such governments could sell imagery from their own satellites, which would compete with our imagery products. We may encounter further program delays in connection with the construction and launch of GeoEye-1. The NextView contract is subject to a set schedule of milestones which originally anticipated a planned launch of GeoEye-1 during the first quarter of 2007. As a result of program delays, GeoEye-1’s launch date was initially rescheduled for an April 16, 2008 launch date. However, Boeing Launch Services informed us that their rocket won’t be available for an April launch. That delay, coupled with competition for use of the launch pad caused Boeing to reschedule us on the manifest for August 22, 2008. The final determination of the launch date is being discussed by GeoEye and Boeing. Delays in the launch or in the check-out of GeoEye-1 could affect our ability to provide the full amount of anticipated imagery and imagery products to the NGA during the post-launch period under the NextView contract and could cause GeoEye to receive less in revenues for imagery under the NextView imagery contract, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that our satellites will operate as designed. Our satellites employ advanced technologies and sensors that are subject to severe environmental stresses in space that could affect the satellite’s performance. Employing advanced technologies is further complicated by the fact that the satellite is in space. Hardware component problems in space could lead to degradation in performance or loss of functionality of the satellite, with attendant costs and revenue losses. In addition, human operators may execute improper implementation commands that negatively impact a satellite’s performance. For example, on March 4, 2007, the OrbView-3 satellite experienced a problem affecting its image quality which ultimately resulted in the satellite being declared permanently out of service. OrbView-3 was designed with single-string camera electronic components such that no secondary components exist to serve as back-ups. Our GeoEye-1 satellite is based on an entirely different design by different vendors and the camera electronics components are designed with back-up capabilities. We cannot assure you that IKONOS and OrbView-2 will continue to operate successfully in space throughout their expected remaining lives. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully launch GeoEye-1 or that, once launched, GeoEye-1 will operate successfully. Even if a satellite is operated properly, minor technical flaws in the satellite’s sensors could significantly degrade their performance, which could materially affect our ability to market our products successfully. Our business model depends on our ability to sell imagery from our high-resolution satellites. We do not presently have plans to construct and launch a replacement satellite for IKONOS or OrbView-2 if either fails prematurely. The loss or failure of GeoEye-1 to be placed into service, or the permanent loss of IKONOS, particularly if such loss were to occur prior to GeoEye-1 being placed into service, could materially affect our operations and financial condition. While we have commenced our GeoEye-2 program, that program will take 17 at least three to four years and cannot be considered a near-term replacement for a loss of our current satellites or GeoEye-1. We cannot assure you that the market will accept our products and services. Our success depends on existing markets accepting our imagery products and services and our ability to develop new markets. Our business plan is based on the assumption that we will generate significant future revenues from sales of high-resolution imagery produced by IKONOS and eventually GeoEye-1 and GeoEye-2, to our existing markets and new markets. The commercial availability of high-resolution satellite imagery is still a fairly recent phenomenon. Consequently, it is difficult to predict accurately the ultimate size of the market and the market acceptance of our products and services. Our strategy to target certain markets for our satellite imagery relies on a number of assumptions, some or all of which may be incorrect. Actual markets could vary materially from the potential markets that we have identified. As a result, we may miss opportunities even for markets that do exist because the products and services we develop are not aimed at the correct potential markets. We cannot accurately predict whether our products and services will achieve significant market acceptance or whether there will be a market for our products and services on terms we find acceptable. Market acceptance of our high-resolution satellite imagery products depends on a number of factors, including the spatial and spectral quality, scope, timeliness, sophistication and price and services and the availability of substitute products and services. Lack of significant market acceptance of our products and services, particularly our high-resolution imagery products and services, delays in acceptance, or failure of certain markets to develop would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Foreign distributors and domestic value-added resellers may not expand commercial markets. We rely on foreign regional distributors to market and sell internationally a significant portion of our imagery from IKONOS. We intend to rely on foreign regional distributors for GeoEye-1 as well, and have intensified our efforts to further develop our operations in overseas markets. We expect the majority of our existing and future foreign regional distributors to act on behalf of, or contract directly with, foreign governments to sell imagery for national security and related purposes. These regional distributors may not have the skill or experience to develop regional commercial markets for our products and services. If we fail to enter into regional distribution agreements on a timely basis or if our foreign regional distributors fail to market and sell our imagery products and services successfully, these failures would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to service our debt. We intend to rely on value-added resellers to develop, market, and sell our products and services to address certain target markets, including domestic markets. If our value-added resellers fail to develop, market and sell our products and services successfully, this failure would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to service our debt. Satellites have limited useful lives and are expensive to replace. Satellites have limited useful lives. We determine a satellite’s useful life, or its design life, using a complex calculation involving the probabilities of failure of the satellite’s components from design or manufacturing defects, environmental stresses or other causes. The original design lives of our satellites are as follows: Satellite Original Design Life OrbView-2 71/2 years (launched in August 1997) IKONOS 7 years (launched in September 1999) GeoEye-1 7 years (anticipated launch in 2008) The design lives of these satellites are affected by a number of factors, including the quality of construction, the supply of fuel, the expected gradual environmental degradation of solar panels, the durability of various satellite components and the orbits in which the satellites are placed. Random failure of satellite 18 components could cause damage to or loss of the use of a satellite before the end of its design life. In rare cases, electrostatic storms or collisions with other objects could damage our satellites. We cannot assure you that each satellite will remain in operation for its design life. We expect the performance of each satellite to decline gradually near the end of its design life. During the course of the Space Imaging acquisition, an analysis was performed to assess the expected life of IKONOS after its then six years on orbit. The analysis indicated that the expected fully functional IKONOS lifetime is greater than 8.3 years from launch. A recent study completed in the fourth quarter in 2007 by the IKONOS manufacturer resulted in a revised life expectancy to the 2010+ timeframe. Despite the fact that OrbView-2’s seven and a half year design life has expired, we currently expect to continue commercial operations with OrbView-2 in 2008. However, notwithstanding the ongoing successful operations of IKONOS and OrbView-2, we can offer no assurance that either will maintain its prescribed orbit or remain commercially operational. We anticipate using funds generated from operations to develop plans for follow-on high-resolution imagery satellites. If we do not generate sufficient funds from operations, we will not be able to deploy other potential follow-on satellites to replace GeoEye-1 or IKONOS at the end of its design life. In addition, we may need to obtain financing from outside sources to deploy follow-on satellites to replace GeoEye-1. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient funds from operations or to raise additional capital, on favorable terms or on a timely basis, if at all, to develop or deploy follow-on high-resolution satellites. Our NextView imagery purchasing contract is a firm fixed-price contract which could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns. We entered into the imagery purchasing portion of the NextView contract with NGA on a firm fixed-price basis. This allows us to benefit from cost savings, but we carry the burden of cost overruns. If our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we may lose money on this contract. We have partially mitigated this risk through the use of firm fixed priced contracts with our major subcontractors. In addition, this contract has provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts then we may not realize the full benefits of the NextView contract. Our financial condition is dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our NextView contract. Lower earnings caused by cost overruns would have a negative impact on our financial results. Our international business exposes us to risks relating to increased regulation and political or economic instability in foreign markets. In 2007, approximately 36 percent of our revenues were derived from international sales, and we intend to continue to pursue international contracts. We expect to derive substantial revenues from international sales of our products and services. International operations are subject to certain risks, such as: • changes in domestic and foreign governmental regulations and licensing requirements • deterioration of relations between the United States and a particular foreign country • increases in tariffs and taxes and other trade barriers • changes in political and economic stability, including fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, which may make payment in U.S. dollars, as provided for under our existing contracts, more expensive for foreign customers • difficulties in obtaining or enforcing judgments in foreign jurisdictions. These risks are beyond our control and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Limited insurance coverage and availability may prevent us from obtaining insurance to cover all risks of loss. The terms of our current notes require, and we believe that the issuance of any future notes will require, us to obtain launch and on-orbit insurance on GeoEye-1 and other subsequent satellites we construct and 19 launch. Furthermore, we must maintain specified levels of on-orbit operations insurance for GeoEye-1, to the extent that such coverage can be obtained at a premium that is not disproportionately high. In September 2007, we secured $270 million of insurance coverage for GeoEye-1. This insurance is not sufficient to cover the cost of a replacement high-resolution imagery satellite such as GeoEye-1. We also carry $20 million of insurance coverage on the IKONOS satellite, but we do not carry any insurance coverage for the OrbView-2 satellite. In addition, we may find it difficult to insure against certain risks, such as partial degradation of functionality of a satellite. Insurance market conditions or factors outside our control at the time we are in the market for the required insurance, such as failure of a satellite using similar components or a similar launch vehicle, could cause premiums to be significantly higher than current estimates. Higher premiums on insurance policies will increase our costs, thereby reducing our operating income by the amount of such increased premiums. Should the future terms of launch and on-orbit insurance policies become less favorable than those currently available, this may result in limits on amounts of coverage that we can obtain or may prevent us from obtaining insurance at all. Failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals could result in service interruptions or could impede us from executing our business plan. FCC Approvals. Our operation of satellites and earth stations requires licenses from the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”). The FCC regulates the construction, launch and operation of our satellites, the use of satellite spectrum, and the licensing of our earth station terminals located within the United States. We currently operate OrbView-2 pursuant to experimental authority. Our experimental FCC license will expire on April 1, 2009. The FCC granted authority to launch and operate IKONOS and to operate the associated earth station systems in 1999. The license to operate IKONOS will expire in 2014, and the licenses to operate the earth stations will expire between October 2007 and December 2010. The FCC granted authority to launch and operate OrbView-3 and to operate the associated earth station systems in 1999. The license to operate OrbView-3 will expire in 2018, and the licenses to operate the earth stations will expire in 2009. The FCC generally renews licenses routinely, but there can be no assurance that our licenses will be renewed at their expiration dates for full terms or without adverse conditions. Failure to renew these licenses could have a material adverse affect on our ability to generate revenue and conduct our business as currently planned. In January 2006, the FCC granted us a license for GeoEye-1 which is subject to the completion of certain milestones in the design, construction, launch and placing into service of GeoEye-1 by certain dates. Although GeoEye has successfully completed all milestones under the license to date except for launch and commencement of operations, failure to meet future milestones on a timely basis or to meet other conditions in the license could result in the cancellation of the license and impair our ability to satisfy our obligations under the NextView contract and have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and conduct our business as currently planned. Other Domestic Approvals. Some of our business operations require licenses from the U.S. Department of Commerce (the “DoC”) and the U.S. Department of State. The failure to obtain these licenses, or the revocation of one or more licenses, could adversely affect our ability to conduct these operations. The DoC licenses provide that the U.S. government may interrupt service or otherwise limit our ability to distribute satellite images to certain parties in order to address national security or foreign policy concerns or because of the international obligations of the U.S. Actual or threatened interruptions or limitations on our service could adversely affect our ability to market our products abroad. In addition, the DoC has the right to review and approve our agreements with foreign entities, including contracts with international customers for high-resolution imagery. We have received such approvals for the agreements in place with our existing international customers. However, such reviews could delay or prohibit us from executing new international agreements. In connection with customer agreements, we have in the past and may in the future supply our international customers with earth stations that enable these customers to downlink data directly from our 20 satellites. Exporting these earth stations and technical information relating to these stations may require us to obtain export licenses from the DoC or the U.S. Department of State. If the DoC or the U.S. Department of State does not issue these export licenses in connection with future exports, or if these licenses are significantly delayed or contain restrictions, or if the DoC or the U.S. Department of State revokes, suspends or denies a request for renewal of existing licenses, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. International Registration and Approvals. The use of satellite spectrum is subject to the requirements of the International Telecommunication Union (the “ITU”). Additionally, satellite operators must abide by the specific laws of the countries in which downlink services are provided from the satellite to earth station terminals within such countries. The FCC has coordinated and/or registered the operations of our existing satellites pursuant to ITU requirements, and we expect the FCC to do so for GeoEye-1. Completion of the ITU process helps to prevent interference from or into existing or planned satellite operations. We do not expect significant issues relating to completion of the ITU process for our satellites due to the nature of satellite imaging operations; however, if the FCC fails to complete the ITU process for GeoEye-1 in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. Our customers or distributors are responsible for obtaining local regulatory approval from the governments in the countries in which they do business to receive imagery downlinked directly from our satellites to earth stations within such countries. If these regional distributors are not successful in obtaining the necessary approvals, we will not be able to distribute real time imagery in those regions. Our inability to offer real time service in a significant number of foreign countries could negatively affect our business. In addition, regulatory provisions in countries where we wish to operate may impose unduly burdensome restrictions on our operations. Our business may also be adversely affected if the national authorities where we plan to operate adopt treaties, regulations or legislation unfavorable to foreign companies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 