Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following specific risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as these are important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all our potential risks or uncertainties. Some statements in the “Business” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are “forward-looking statements” and are qualified by the cautionary language regarding such statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Our concentration in the hospitality industry, and in particular the large group meetings sector of the hospitality industry, exposes us to certain risks outside of our control. Recessionary conditions in the national economy have resulted in economic pressures on the hospitality industry generally, and on our operations and expansion plans. In portions of 2008 and the first half of 2009, we experienced declines in hotel occupancy, weakness in future bookings by our core large group customers, lower spending levels by groups, increased cancellation levels and increased attrition levels, which represents groups not fulfilling the minimum number of room nights originally contracted for. In 2010 and 2011, we began to see stabilization in our industry and specifically in our business. In 2010 and 2011, we have seen increases in group travel as compared to the 2009 levels, as well as growth in outside-the-room revenue, indicating that not only are our group customers beginning to travel again, they are spending more on food and beverage and entertainment during their stay at our properties. Our attrition and cancellation levels have also decreased compared to 2009 levels. As a result of the higher levels of group business, we experienced an increase in occupancy in 2010 and 2011. Although we continue to see pressure on rates for bookings that will travel in the shorter-term, we have experienced improved rates on bookings in future years. While we continue to focus our sales and marketing efforts on booking rooms in 2012, in addition to later years, there can be no assurance that we can achieve further improvements in occupancy and revenue levels. In addition, our cost containment efforts at the property and corporate levels may not be successful. In particular, many of our expenses are relatively fixed (such as personnel costs, interest, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities) and we may be unable to reduce these costs significantly or rapidly if demand for our hotel and convention business decreases. We cannot predict when or if hospitality demand and spending will return to historical levels, but we anticipate that our future financial results and growth will be harmed if the economy does not continue to improve or becomes worse. Our hotel and convention business is subject to significant market risks. Our ability to continue to successfully operate our hotel and convention business is subject to factors beyond our control which could reduce the revenue and operating income of these properties. These factors include: • the desirability and perceived attractiveness of the Nashville, Tennessee; Orlando, Florida; Dallas, Texas; and Washington D.C. areas as tourist and convention destinations; • adverse changes in the national economy and in the levels of tourism and convention business that are affecting our hotels; • our ability to continue to attract group convention business, which, while improving, remains below the historical peak set prior to 2008; • our ability to contract for and collect attrition and cancellation fees from groups that do not fulfill minimum stay or spending requirements; • the opening of other new hotels could impact our group convention business at our existing hotel properties; • the highly competitive nature of the hotel, tourism and convention businesses in which the Gaylord Opryland, the Gaylord Palms, the Gaylord Texan and the Gaylord National operate; • the susceptibility of our group convention business to reduced levels of demand during the year-end holiday periods, which we may not be able to offset by attracting sufficient general tourism guests; 10 Table of Contents • the financial condition of the airline and other transportation-related industries and the resulting impact on travel; and • organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of group business. The successful implementation of our business strategy depends on our ability to generate cash flows from our existing operations and other factors. Our business strategy focuses on the development of resort and convention center hotels in selected locations in the United States and on our attractions properties, including the Grand Ole Opry, which are focused primarily on the country music genre. The success of our future operating results depends on our ability to implement our business strategy by successfully operating the Gaylord Opryland, the Gaylord Palms, the Gaylord Texan and the Gaylord National, and by further utilizing our attractions assets. Our ability to do this depends upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These include: • our ability to generate cash flows from existing operations; • our ability to hire and retain hotel management, catering and convention-related staff for our hotels; • our ability to capitalize on the strong brand recognition of certain of our Opry and Attractions assets; and • the continued popularity and demand for country music. If we are unable to successfully implement the business strategies described above, our cash flows and net income may be reduced. Unanticipated costs of hotels we open in new markets may reduce our operating income. As part of our growth plans, we may open or acquire new hotels in geographic areas in which we have little or no operating experience and in which potential customers may not be familiar with our business. As a result, we may have to incur costs relating to the opening, operation and promotion of those new hotel properties that are substantially greater than those incurred in other areas. Even though we may incur substantial additional costs with these new hotel properties, they may attract fewer customers than our existing hotels. As a result, the results of operations at new hotel properties may be inferior to those of our existing hotels. The new hotels may even operate at a loss. Even if we are able to attract enough customers to our new hotel properties to operate them at a profit, it is possible that those customers could simply be moving future meetings or conventions from our existing hotel properties to our new hotel properties. Thus, the opening of a new hotel property could reduce the revenue of our existing hotel properties and could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows. Our hotel developments, including our potential projects in Aurora, Colorado and Mesa, Arizona, and our other projects, are subject to financing, timing, budgeting and other risks. We intend to develop additional hotel properties and expand existing hotel properties and add amenities and attractions as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. New project development has a number of risks, including risks associated with: • construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; • construction defects or noncompliance with construction specifications; • receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • receipt of governmental funding and/or incentives; • other risks of construction described below; • development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; • so-called acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could delay the development of a project; 11 Table of Contents • adoption of state or local laws that negatively impact the tourism industry; • risks associated with joint ventures or alliances or other potential transaction structures we may enter into in connection with development projects; • the availability and cost of capital, which is expected to be unfavorable until general economic conditions improve in the U.S.; and • governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion. Our development projects may not be completed on time or within budget. There are significant risks associated with our future construction projects, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from these planned projects. Our future construction projects, including our planned projects in Aurora, Colorado and Mesa, Arizona, as well as the possible expansions of Gaylord Opryland, Gaylord Palms, and Gaylord Texan, entail significant risks. We also plan to participate in a new joint venture to construct a snow and water park near Gaylord Opryland, which will be subject to the following construction risks. Construction activity requires us to obtain qualified contractors and subcontractors, the availability of which may be uncertain. Construction projects are subject to cost overruns and delays caused by events outside of our control, such as shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases and unavailability of construction materials or equipment. Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite materials, licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from governmental or regulatory authorities, construction defects or non-compliance with construction specification, could increase the total cost, delay, jeopardize or prevent the construction or opening of such projects or otherwise affect the design and features of Gaylord Opryland, Gaylord Palms, and Gaylord Texan or other projects. In addition, we will be required to obtain financing for development projects and to use cash flow from operations for development and construction. We may seek additional debt or equity financing for development and construction projects, and we may enter into joint ventures or alliances with one or more third parties. We have no financing plans for projects, and we do not know if any needed financing will be available on favorable terms. We may be unable to successfully complete acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we may attempt to acquire other convention hotels or otherwise engage in acquisitions, either alone or through joint ventures or alliances with one or more third parties. We may be unable to find or consummate future acquisitions at acceptable prices and terms or, if we are able to find favorable acquisition targets, we may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or secure beneficial joint ventures or alliances. We continue to evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of business, including those that could be material in size and scope. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks and factors, including: • the possible diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; • the potential inability to successfully pursue some or all of the anticipated revenue opportunities associated with the acquisitions; • the possible loss of the acquired business’s key employees; • the potential inability to achieve expected operating efficiencies in the acquired business’s operations; • the increased complexity and diversity of our operations after acquisitions compared to our prior operations; • the impact on our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and • unanticipated problems, expenses or liabilities, including contingent liabilities assumed through an acquisition. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses successfully and/or fail to realize the intended benefits of acquisitions, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, acquisitions may result in a substantial goodwill asset, which will be subject to an annual impairment analysis. If this goodwill were to be impaired in the future, it could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our real estate investments are subject to numerous risks. Because we own hotels and attractions properties, we are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property. Real estate values are expected to be depressed until general economic conditions improve. The investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the related properties, as well as the expenses incurred. In addition, a variety of other factors affect income from properties and real estate values, including governmental regulations, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. For example, new or existing real estate zoning or tax laws can make it more expensive and/or time-consuming to develop real property or expand, modify or renovate properties. When interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decreases. Similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult both to acquire and to sell real property. Finally, governments can, under eminent domain laws, take real property. Sometimes this taking is for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, equity real estate investments, such as the investments we hold and any additional properties that we may acquire, are relatively difficult to sell quickly. If our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our income will be reduced. Our substantial debt could reduce our cash flow and limit our business activities. We currently have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2011, we had $1.1 billion of total debt and stockholders’ equity of $1.0 billion. Our substantial amount of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the hospitality industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that are less leveraged; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity; and • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for various projects, including possible expansions of our existing properties and acquisitions of additional properties. In addition, the terms of our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our 6.75% senior notes allow us to incur substantial amounts of additional debt subject to certain limitations. Any such additional debt could increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. Although our earnings were sufficient to cover fixed charges in 2009 and 2011, our substantial leverage is evidenced by our earnings being insufficient to cover fixed charges by $130.4 million in 2010. At the time any principal amount of our indebtedness is due, we may not have cash available to pay this amount, and we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. We may incur additional debt in connection with our potential expansions of Gaylord Opryland, Gaylord Palms and/or Gaylord Texan or any additional hotel development. We will be required to refinance our $925 million senior secured credit facility before it matures in 2015 and may be required to refinance our 6.75% senior notes and 3.75% convertible senior notes before they mature in 2014, and there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt on acceptable terms. The revolving loan, letters of credit and term loan under our $925 million senior secured credit facility mature on August 1, 2015. Prior to this date, we will be required to refinance this credit facility in order to finance our ongoing capital needs. Our outstanding 6.75% senior notes and 3.75% convertible senior notes mature on November 15, 2014 and October 1, 2014, respectively. On or before the maturity date, we may or may not have cash available to pay amounts due, and we may be required to refinance the notes. Our ability to refinance the $925 million credit facility and our outstanding 6.75% senior notes and 3.75% convertible senior notes on acceptable terms will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our degree of leverage, the value of our assets, borrowing restrictions which may be imposed by lenders and conditions in the credit markets at the time we refinance. The availability of funds for new investments and improvement of existing hotels depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors over which we can exert little control. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. 13 Table of Contents The agreements governing our debt, including our senior credit facility, our 6.75% senior notes and our 3.75% convertible senior notes, contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and could lead to acceleration of debt. Our existing financial agreements, including our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our 6.75% senior notes, impose, and future financing agreements are likely to impose, operating and financial restrictions on our activities. Our senior credit facility requires us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios, including minimum consolidated net worth, minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratios, and our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our 6.75% senior notes limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; • create liens; • redeem and/or prepay certain debt; • pay dividends on our stock to our stockholders or repurchase our stock or other equity interests; • make certain investments; • enter new lines of business; • engage in consolidations, mergers and acquisitions; • make certain capital expenditures; and • pay dividends and make other distributions from our subsidiaries to us. In addition, the indenture governing our 3.75% convertible senior notes restricts mergers under specified circumstances, may require us to offer to purchase the convertible notes from the holders upon the occurrence of specified “fundamental changes,” and may require adjustments in the conversion ratio for the convertible notes as a result of specified “make-whole fundamental changes.” These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and maintain these financial tests and ratios. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity for the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We are a holding company and depend upon our subsidiaries’ cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. We are a holding company, and we conduct the majority of our operations through our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to meet our debt service obligations, including our obligations under our senior notes and our credit facility, substantially depends upon our subsidiaries’ cash flow and payment of funds to us by our subsidiaries as dividends, loans, advances or other payments. The payment of dividends and/or making of loans, advances or other payments by our subsidiaries will be subject to the approval of those subsidiaries’ boards, and our subsidiaries are not obligated to pay dividends or make loans, advances or other payments to us. Our subsidiaries’ ability to pay such dividends and/or make such loans, advances or other payments may also be restricted by, among other things, applicable laws and regulations and current and future debt agreements into which our subsidiaries may enter. 14 Table of Contents We are dependent on our four main hotel properties for the substantial majority of all of our revenue and cash flow. We are dependent upon the Gaylord Opryland, Gaylord Palms, Gaylord Texan and Gaylord National for the substantial majority of our revenue and cash flow. As a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk to factors including: • local economic and competitive conditions; • natural and other disasters; • a decline in air passenger travel due to higher ticket costs or fears concerning air travel; • a decline in the attractiveness of the areas in which our hotels are located as a convention and tourism destination; and • a decrease in convention and meetings business at any of our properties. Any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments with respect to our debt and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of our assets. Subject to applicable laws and certain agreed upon exceptions, our debt is secured by liens on the substantial majority of our assets, including mortgages on each of our Gaylord Hotels. In the event of a default under our credit facility, or if we experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of our secured debt instruments would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our unsecured debt be entitled to payment from our remaining assets. To service our debt and pay other obligations, we will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us. Our ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, our debt, including our obligations under our senior notes and any future debt we may incur, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend largely upon our future operating performance and our ability to generate cash from operations. Our future performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future to make payments on our debt and other obligations will depend on the satisfaction of the covenants and financial ratios in our senior credit facility and our other debt agreements, including the indenture governing our 6.75% senior notes and other agreements we may enter into in the future. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or we may not have future borrowings available to us under our senior credit facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. Any failure to protect our trademarks and intellectual property could reduce the value of our brand names and harm our business. The reputation and perception of our brands is critical to our success in the hospitality industry. If our trademarks or intellectual property are copied or used without authorization, the value of our brands, their reputation, our competitive advantages and our goodwill could be harmed. We regularly apply to register our trademarks in the United States. However, we cannot assure you that those trademark registrations will be granted or that the steps we take to protect our trademarks or intellectual property in the United States will be adequate to prevent others, including third parties or former employees, from copying or using our trademarks or intellectual property without authorization. Our intellectual property is also vulnerable to unauthorized use in some countries outside the United States, where local law may not adequately protect it. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. As we have in the past, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation of this type could be costly, force us to divert our resources, lead to counterclaims or other claims against us or otherwise harm our business. Any failure to maintain and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could reduce the value of our brands and harm our business. Hospitality companies have been the target of class actions and other lawsuits alleging violations of federal and state law and other claims, and we may be subject to legal claims. Our operating income and profits may be reduced by legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of our employees, customers or other third parties. In recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class 15 Table of Contents action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and other alleged violations of law. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits have been instituted against us from time to time, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type or other claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain the integrity of our internal company or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, operational inefficiencies, damage of reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines, or lawsuits. Our businesses require collection of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers in various information systems and those of our service providers. The integrity and protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. If that data is inaccurate or incomplete, we could make faulty decisions. Our customers and employees also have a high expectation that we and our service providers will adequately protect their personal information. The regulatory environment surrounding information, security and privacy is also increasingly demanding. Our existing systems may be unable to satisfy changing regulatory requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so. Despite our implementation of various measures designed to protect our information systems and records, including those we maintain with our service providers, we may be subject to security breaches, system failures, viruses, operator error or inadvertent releases of data. A significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee, or company data maintained by us or by a service provider or failure to comply with the various U.S. and international laws and regulations applicable to the protection of such data or with Payment Card Industry data security standards, could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. A breach in the security of our information systems or those of our service providers could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits. Our properties are subject to environmental regulations that could impose significant financial liability on us. Environmental laws, ordinances and regulations of various federal, state, local and foreign governments regulate certain of our properties and could make us liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the properties we currently own or operate or those we previously owned or operated. Those laws could impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to develop, use, sell or rent the real property or to borrow using the real property as collateral. If we arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes, we could be liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up wastes at the disposal or treatment facility, even if we never owned or operated that facility. Other laws, ordinances and regulations could require us to manage, abate or remove lead- or asbestos-containing materials. Similarly, the operation and closure of storage tanks are often regulated by federal, state, local and foreign laws. Finally, certain laws, ordinances and regulations, particularly those governing the management or preservation of wetlands, coastal zones and threatened or endangered species, could limit our ability to develop, use, sell or rent our real property. Existing governmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations relating to climate change, air quality or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to us, which could affect the operations of our hotels and/or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions. The hospitality industry is heavily regulated, including with respect to food and beverage sales, employee relations and construction concerns, and compliance with these regulations could increase our costs and reduce our revenues and profits. Our hotel operations are subject to numerous laws, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and beverages, liquor service and health and safety of premises. The success of expanding our hotel operations also depends upon our obtaining necessary building permits and zoning variances from local authorities. Compliance with these laws and requirements is time intensive and costly and may reduce our revenues and operating income. We are also subject to laws regulating our relationship with our employees in areas such as hiring and firing, minimum wage and maximum working hours, overtime and working conditions. Labor unions now represent certain employees at the Gaylord National. We have entered into agreements with the four unions representing these employees. In addition, labor union organizing activities may take place at any of our other hotel properties. A lengthy strike or other work stoppage at one of our hotels, or the threat of such activity, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, negotiating, and dedicating time and resources to administration of and compliance with the requirements of, any collective bargaining agreements could be costly. 16 Table of Contents Fluctuations in our operating results and other factors may result in decreases in our stock price. In recent periods, the market price for our common stock has fluctuated substantially. From time to time, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. Investors could sell shares of our common stock at or after the time that market expectations of our stock change, resulting in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In addition to our operating results, the operating results of other hospitality companies, changes in financial estimates or recommendations by analysts, adverse weather conditions, increased construction costs, increased labor and other costs, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial or credit markets or other developments affecting us or our industry, such as terrorist attacks, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. Our 3.75% convertible senior notes may be convertible in future periods, which conversion may dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders at the time of conversion, and our stock price may be impacted by note hedge and warrant transactions we entered into in connection with the issuance of the 3.75% convertible senior notes. Upon conversion of some or all of our 3.75% convertible senior notes issued in 2009, the ownership interests of our stockholders may be diluted. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, we entered into note hedge transactions with various financial institutions at the time of issuance of the convertible senior notes, intended to reduce potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the notes. We also entered into separate warrant transactions with the same financial institutions. The warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants. In connection with establishing their initial hedge for the note hedge and warrant transactions, we expect that each of these financial institutions, or their affiliates, entered into their own various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. These financial institutions or their affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or by purchasing or selling our common stock in secondary market transactions during the time the 3.75% convertible senior notes are outstanding. In addition, we will exercise options we hold under the convertible note hedge transactions whenever notes are converted. In order to unwind its hedge positions with respect to those exercised options, we expect each of these financial institutions or its affiliates will likely sell our common stock in secondary market transactions or unwind various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock during any settlement period for converted notes. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the 3.75% convertible senior notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the value of the notes. For additional information on the 3.75% convertible senior notes and related note hedge and warrant transactions, please refer to Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements included herein. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could make it difficult for a third party to acquire our company. The Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company or our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions: • authorize us to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of common stock; • provide that directors may only be removed with cause by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes of shares entitled to vote thereon; • establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the Board of Directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at meetings; • provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by our chairman or by a majority of the members of our Board of Directors; • impose restrictions on ownership of our common stock by non-United States persons due to our ownership of a radio station; and • prohibit stockholder actions taken on written consent. 17 Table of Contents In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, our shareholders will be entitled to purchase from us shares of junior preferred stock. The preferred stock purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (i) ten days after the date of a public announcement that a person or group acting in concert has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 22% or more of our outstanding common stock or (ii) ten business days after the commencement of or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the acquiring person becoming the beneficial owner of 22% or more of our outstanding common stock. The preferred stock purchase rights would cause dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. The preferred stock purchase rights are currently scheduled to expire in August 2012, unless they are earlier redeemed or their expiration is further extended by our Board of Directors. We have agreed to include a binding shareholder proposal in our proxy materials for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on whether to extend the shareholder rights plan after its August 12, 2012 expiration date. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could also delay or prevent a change of control. Together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage transactions that otherwise could provide for the payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for publicly traded equity securities or our notes, and also could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our publicly traded equity securities. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock and discourage a takeover. Our Board of Directors has the power to issue up to 100.0 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. As of the date hereof, we have no shares of preferred stock outstanding. Our Board of Directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any new series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or in the event of a dissolution, liquidation or winding up and other terms. In the event that we issue additional shares of preferred stock in the future that have preference over our common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock or our notes could be adversely affected. In addition, the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders may impede a takeover of us and prevent a transaction favorable to our stockholders. The issuance of junior preferred stock is authorized pursuant to our shareholder rights plan. Any failure to attract, retain and integrate senior and managerial level executives could negatively impact our operations and development of our properties. Our future performance depends upon our ability to attract qualified senior executives, retain their services and integrate them into our business. Our future financial results also will depend upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial and marketing personnel in our different areas of operation. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and is likely to increase in the future. We compete for qualified personnel against companies with significantly greater financial resources than ours. We have and in the future may invest in joint ventures or certain minority equity interests over which we have no significant control, to or for which we may owe significant obligations and for which there is no readily available market, and these investments may not be profitable. We plan to enter into a joint venture to build and operate a water and snow park in Nashville, and we previously made minority investments in Hawaii hotel joint ventures. These types of investments may not be liquid and we may have little or no rights, or ability, to exercise the direction or control of the respective enterprises. In connection with these investments, we may have obligations under certain guarantees related to such investments. The ultimate value of any joint ventures or minority investments will be dependent upon the efforts of others over an extended period of time. The nature of our interests and the absence of a readily available market for those interests restrict our ability to dispose of them. Our lack of control over the management of any business in which we are a joint owner or minority investor and the lack of a readily available market to sell our interest in these businesses may cause us to recognize a loss on our investment in these businesses or to incur costs or liabilities that we do not control, but for which we may be required to contribute capital or satisfy financial commitments. These arrangements are subject to uncertainties and risks, including those related to conflicting joint venture partner interests and to our joint venture partners failing to meet their financial or other obligations. For further discussion of these investments, see Note 14 of our consolidated financial statements included herein. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to risks relating to acts of God, terrorist activity and war. Our operating income may be reduced by acts of God, such as natural disasters or acts of terror, in locations where we own and/or operate significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers. Gaylord Opryland, which is located adjacent to the Cumberland River and is protected by levees built to sustain a 100-year flood, suffered flood damage on May 3, 2010 as the river rose to levels that over-topped the levees. In response to the flood, we have increased the per occurrence flood insurance limit for our Gaylord Opryland hotel to $150 million. We have also commenced enhancements to the levees that protect the hotel to increase the height of the levee. While we believe these steps are reasonable given the likelihood of flood damage at Gaylord Opryland, there can be no assurances that flooding will not occur at Gaylord Opryland in the future. In addition, in January of 2007, the Army Corps of Engineers announced that the Wolf Creek Dam on Lake Cumberland in Kentucky was at risk for structural failure. Although the Corps is taking action, including lowering the water level at Lake Cumberland and making structural repairs to the dam to reduce the chances of a dam breach, a significant portion of our Gaylord Opryland property in Nashville is in the Cumberland River flood plain and would be at risk if the dam should fail. Some types of losses, such as from flood, earthquake, terrorism and environmental hazards, may be either uninsurable, subject to sublimit, or too expensive to justify insuring against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Similarly, wars (including the potential for war), terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity), political unrest and other forms of civil strife as well as geopolitical uncertainty may cause our future results to differ materially from anticipated results. Changes in federal, state, or local tax law, interpretations of existing tax law or agreements with tax authorities could affect our profitability and financial condition by increasing our tax costs. We are subject to taxation at the federal, state and local levels in the United States. Our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. From time to time, the U.S. federal, state and local governments make substantive changes to tax rules and the application thereof, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law or interpretations and could adversely impact profitability. State and local tax authorities have increased their efforts to increase revenues through changes in tax law and audits. Such changes and proposals, if enacted, could increase our future effective income tax rates, as well as other taxes, including property taxes. Healthcare legislation could adversely affect our results of operations. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Health Reform Law”), was enacted. Among other things, the Health Reform Law contains provisions that affect employer-sponsored health plans, impose excise taxes on certain plans, and reduce the tax benefits available to employers that receive the Medicare Part D subsidy. These provisions may significantly raise our employee health benefits costs and/or alter the benefits we are required to provide. We continue to review provisions of the Health Reform Law and their impact on our company-sponsored plans. Costs associated with compliance with the Health Reform Law are currently difficult to estimate, but we anticipate increased expenses relating to our company-sponsored plans. If we are not able to limit or offset future cost increases, those costs could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. The efficient operation of our business is heavily dependent upon our information systems. We depend on a variety of information technology systems for the efficient functioning of our business. A failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. We rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. The software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. The inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. In addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. We also rely heavily on our information technology staff. If we cannot meet our staffing needs in this area, we may not be able to fulfill our technology initiatives while continuing to provide maintenance on existing systems. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 