D. Risk Factors Certain Considerations Relating to Chile and Other Countries in Latin America We are predominantly engaged in business in Chile. Consequently, our results of operations and financial condition are to a large extent dependent on the overall level of economic activity in Chile. The Chilean economy has had GDP growth rates of 3.4%, 2.2%, 3.9%, 6.2% and 6.3% for the years 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. We cannot assure you of future rates of growth of the Chilean economy. Some of the factors that would be likely to have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations include future downturns in the Chilean economy, a return to the high inflation experienced by Chile in the 1970s and a devaluation of the Chilean peso relative to the U.S. dollar. In addition to our operations in Chile, some of our businesses operate in and export to Argentina, Brazil, Peru and other countries in Latin America that have at various times been characterized by volatile and frequently unfavorable economic, political and social conditions. Our business, earnings and asset 5 values may be materially and adversely affected by developments with respect to inflation, interest rates, currency fluctuations, government policies, price and wage controls, exchange control regulations, taxation, expropriation, social instability and other political, economic or diplomatic developments in or affecting the specific countries in which we operate and Latin America in general. In 2001, a prolonged economic recession in Argentina culminated in an economic crisis. Although the Argentine economy has demonstrated a recovery during 2003, 2004 and 2005, exhibiting growth rates of 8.7%, 9.0% and 9.2%, respectively, there can be no assurance regarding future rates of growth relating to the Argentine economy. The economic deterioration in Argentina materially adversely affected the operations of Quinenco's subsidiary, Madeco, in Argentina in 2001 and 2002. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - Business Overview - Manufacturing--Madeco" and "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - E. Trend Information". Since 2003, the Argentine government has restricted natural gas exports to Chile due to internal supply problems. Prior to this restriction, Chile imported virtually all of its natural gas needs from Argentina. Chile is currently attempting to mitigate its dependence on natural gas from Argentina by using alternative fuel sources and expanding its sources for natural gas. To date, the Argentine gas supply restriction has not materially affected CCU or Madeco's production costs; however we cannot assure you as to what extent the restrictions may affect these companies' costs in the future. Certain Considerations Relating to Us Future Capital Needs Our operations to date have required substantial amounts of capital, and we expect that we will be required to contribute substantial additional amounts of capital to support or expand existing businesses and to enter additional businesses in the future. In prior periods, Quinenco and its businesses have met capital needs through internally generated funds and issuances of debt and equity securities. We cannot assure you that capital will be available in the future as needed on reasonable terms. The inability to obtain capital would constrain our ability to support and/or expand our existing businesses and to maintain or enter new businesses. An unavailability of capital on reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Holding Company Structure As a holding company, Quinenco's income and its ability to pay debt service obligations and dividends depend primarily upon receipt of dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries, equity investments and related companies. The payment of dividends by such subsidiaries, equity investments and related companies is, in certain instances, subject to restrictions and is contingent upon their earnings and cash flows. In addition, Quinenco's level of income has largely depended on the periodic sale of assets held for investment. We cannot assure you that Quinenco's subsidiaries will continue to distribute dividends, or that Quinenco will be able to generate the level of gains on the sale of investments that it has in the past. Equity Price Risk Many of our businesses are publicly traded entities whose equity value may vary depending on market value fluctuations. The equity value of our investments could be affected by downturns in the Chilean securities markets and other securities markets, including the New York Stock Exchange, where the equity securities of CCU, Madeco and Banco de Chile are also traded. Quinenco's common stock and ADRs and those of its listed subsidiaries may also experience low trading volumes, which could negatively affect their share price and liquidity. 6 In addition, the market value of securities of Chilean companies is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in those countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Chile, investors' reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Chilean issuers. We cannot assure you that the Chilean stock market will continue to grow or even sustain its gains and that the market value of Quinenco's securities would not be adversely affected by events elsewhere, especially in emerging market countries. Our Businesses We believe that our businesses face an increasingly high level of competition in the industries in which they operate. This increased competition is in part a result of recent consolidation in some of the industries in which these businesses operate. Increased competition is manifested in prices, costs and sales volumes of the products and services produced and marketed by our businesses. We cannot assure you that competition will not continue to increase in the future, including a possible ongoing trend of consolidation in certain industries. Increased competition could affect the profit margins and results of operations of our businesses, which as a result, could materially and adversely affect the dividend cash flow Quinenco receives from its businesses. Banking Regulation Restrictions Banco de Chile is also subject to regulation by the SBIF. In addition, it is subject to regulation by the Central Bank with regard to certain matters, including interest rates and foreign exchange. Pursuant to the Chilean General Banking Law, all Chilean banks may engage in additional businesses depending on the risk of the activity and the strength of the bank. The Banking Law also applies a modified version of the capital adequacy guidelines issued by the Basle Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices to the Chilean banking system and limits the discretion of the SBIF to deny new banking licenses. We cannot assure you that regulators will not in the future impose more restrictive limitations on the activities of banks, including Banco de Chile, than those that are currently in effect. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on Banco de Chile's financial condition and results of operations. Banco de Chile's U.S. branches are subject to obligations imposed under consent orders Beginning in September 2004, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or OCC, and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System through the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, together, the Federal Reserve, conducted targeted examinations of Banco de Chile's New York and Miami branches, respectively, to evaluate, among other things, their compliance with the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, and other U.S. anti-money laundering requirements. As a result of their examinations, the OCC and the Federal Reserve identified certain deficiencies in the bank's internal controls, particularly in the areas of the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering compliance. As a result, on February 1, 2005, Banco de Chile agreed to the issuance by the OCC of a consent order, applicable to its New York branch, and the issuance by the Federal Reserve of a cease and desist order, applicable to its Miami branch. Pursuant to these orders, Banco de Chile has instituted an action plan that includes the maintenance of programs geared towards strengthening its compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and U.S. anti-money laundering laws. On October 12, 2005, Banco de Chile entered into agreements with the OCC, and separately with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, or FinCEN, requiring a U.S.$3 million civil penalty, payable by its New York and Miami branches, to resolve allegations related to the Bank Secrecy Act, anti-money laundering compliance and related matters. Failure by Banco de Chile to satisfy the terms of the orders could result in additional supervisory actions against its New York and Miami branches, including the assessment of additional civil monetary penalties. See "Item 8. Financial Information--Legal Proceedings--Banco de Chile." 7 SAOS may be obligated to sell shares of Banco de Chile's stock in the public market if it does not pay sufficient dividends As of December 31, 2005, Sociedad Administradora de la Obligacion Subordinada SAOS S.A. ("SAOS"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of SM Chile S.A., in which we hold a 52.8% interest, held 42.0% of Banco de Chile's shares as a consequence of its 1996 reorganization. The reorganization was partially due to Banco de Chile's 1989 repurchase from the Central Bank of certain non-performing loans that it had previously sold to the Central Bank and later exchanged for subordinated debt without a fixed term. Under the terms of a repayment obligation in favor of the Central Bank that SAOS assumed to replace the Central Bank subordinated debt, SAOS may be required to sell some of Banco de Chile's shares to the public. See "Item 4. Information on the Company--Finnancial Services--Banco de Chile." In exchange for assuming the Central Bank indebtedness, SAOS received from SM-Chile S.A., 63.6% of Banco de Chile's shares as collateral for this indebtedness. As a result of Banco de Chile's merger with Banco de A. Edwards, the percentage of the bank's shares held by SAOS decreased to 42.0%. As a result of the share dividend paid by Banco de Chile in May 2006, the percentage further decreased to 41.4%. Dividends received by SAOS from Banco de Chile are the sole source of SAOS's revenue, which it must apply to repay this indebtedness. However, under SAOS's agreement with the Central Bank, Banco de Chile has no obligation to distribute dividends to its shareholders. To the extent distributed dividends are not sufficient to pay the amount due on this indebtedness, SAOS is permitted to maintain a cumulative deficit balance with the Central Bank that SAOS commits to pay with future dividends. If the cumulative deficit balance exceeds an amount equal to 20% of Banco de Chile's capital and reserves, the Central Bank may require SAOS to sell a sufficient number of shares of Banco de Chile stock owned by SAOS to pay the entire accumulated deficit amount. As of May 2, 2006, SAOS maintained a deficit balance with the Central Bank of Ch$10,480 million, equivalent to 1.67% of the bank's capital and reserves. As of the same date, Ch$125,250 million would have represented 20.0% of Banco de Chile's capital and reserves. If from time to time in the future Banco de Chile's shareholders decide to retain and capitalize all or part of its annual net income in order to finance the bank's future growth, and to distribute stock dividends among its shareholders, the Central Bank may require Banco de Chile to pay the portion of the net income corresponding to shares owned by SAOS in cash to SAOS. If Banco de Chile distributes stock dividends and the Central Bank does not require Banco de Chile to pay that portion in cash, the shares received by SAOS must be sold by SAOS within the following 12 months. The shareholders of SM-Chile will have a right of first refusal with respect to that sale. We are unable to determine the likelihood that the Central Bank would require SAOS to sell shares of Banco de Chile's common stock or that SAOS will otherwise be required to sell any stock dividends distributed by Banco de Chile, nor can we determine the number of such shares SAOS may be required to sell. If SAOS is required to sell shares of Banco de Chile's stock in the public market, that sale could adversely affect the prevailing market price of Banco de Chile's stock. Interest Rates and Foreign Currency Positions A portion of our debt is subject to variable interest rates, which could have an impact on us in periods in which interest rates increase. A risk also exists with respect to exchange rate fluctuations on assets and liabilities, including debt instruments maintained in foreign currencies. See "Item 11 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Interest Rate Risk". 8 Operations are Subject to Environmental Laws and Regulations Madeco's operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment in the various jurisdictions in which Madeco operates, such as regulations regarding the release of copper, aluminum or plastics dust into the air. Stricter laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on Madeco or result in the need for additional investments in pollution control equipment, either of which could result in a material adverse effect on Madeco's profitability. Fluctuations in Prices of Copper and Aluminum Historically, international prices of both copper and aluminum have fluctuated greatly. Fluctuations in the price of copper, aluminum or both could have a material adverse effect on Madeco's business operations. Copper and aluminum prices are set by the London Metals Exchange, or LME. Using LME prices, Madeco sells its copper and aluminum products based on the amount of metal each contains. Madeco generally has been able to increase its selling prices in response to increased raw materials costs. However, we cannot assure you that it will be able to recover increases in the cost of copper and/or aluminum in the future. In addition, Madeco maintains significant copper and aluminum inventories for the production of its main products. A sharp decrease in the price of these raw materials would affect the value of its inventory and could result in losses for Madeco. Certain Considerations Relating to Quinenco's Shares and ADSs Majority Shareholder As of the date of this Annual Report, we are controlled by the Luksic Group. Certain members of the Luksic Group beneficially own 82.8% of the shares of Quinenco. As long as Luksic Group members beneficially own a majority of the outstanding shares, the group will be able to elect a majority of the Directors of Quinenco and determine the outcome of the voting on substantially all actions that require shareholder approval. See "Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees" and "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions". We cannot assure you that the Luksic Group's interests will not differ from your interests. Dividends Affected by Exchange Conditions Quinenco's ADSs trade in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between certain Latin American currencies and the U.S. dollar are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs. For example, since our financial statements are reported in Chilean pesos, a decline in the value of the Chilean peso against the dollar would reduce our earnings as reported in U.S. dollars. Any dividend Quinenco may pay in the future would be denominated in Chilean pesos. A decline in the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar would reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of any such dividend. A devaluation of the Brazilian, Argentine and/or Peruvian currency could also reduce our earnings in Chilean pesos and therefore the earnings reported in U.S. dollars. Holders of ADSs Due to the fact that you do not hold your shares directly, you are subject to the following additional risks: In the event of a dividend or other distribution, if exchange rates fluctuate during any period of time when the ADS depositary cannot convert a foreign currency into dollars, you may lose some or all of the value of the distribution. We cannot assure you that the ADS depositary will be able to convert any currency at a specific exchange rate or sell any property, rights, shares or other securities at a specific price, or that any of such transactions can be completed within a specific time period. 9 In order to vote at shareholders' meetings, if you are not registered on the books of the ADS depositary, you are required to transfer your ADSs for a certain number of days before a shareholders' meeting into a blocked account established for that purpose by the ADS depositary. Any ADSs transferred to this blocked account will not be available for transfer during that time. If you are registered on the books of the ADS depositary must give instructions to the ADS depositary not to transfer your ADSs during this period before the shareholders' meeting. You must therefore receive voting materials from the ADS depositary sufficiently in advance of the shareholders' meeting in order to make these transfers or give these instructions. We cannot assure you that you will receive voting materials in time to instruct the ADS depositary how to vote. It is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote at all. You may not receive copies of all of Quinenco's reports or those of the ADS depositary. You may have to go the ADS depositary's offices to inspect any reports issued. In the event Quinenco or its publicly traded subsidiaries fail to meet any of the continued listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or "NYSE", Quinenco's or its subsidiaries' ADSs may become subject to delisting at the option of the NYSE. Eligibility for Investment by Chilean Pension Funds Given that Chilean pension funds together constitute the most significant investor group in Chilean securities, any action taken by the Risk Classification Commission could affect the price and liquidity of our common shares and bonds. Madeco was notified in 2002 that the Comision Clasificadora de Riesgo (the "Risk Classification Commission"), which regulates the investment activities of pension funds in Chile, had ruled that as a result of the downgrading of the credit ratings of the company's securities and the deterioration of Madeco's financial situation, Chilean pension funds were further limited in the amount of debt securities or common shares of Madeco that they could hold. Although the rating agencies have since upgraded Madeco's rating and Chilean pension funds are no longer limited in the amount of debt securities or common shares of Madeco that they can hold, there can be no assurance that it will not be downgraded, and the holding of Madeco's securities by Chilean pension funds limited, in the future. 