Item 1A. Risk Factors. Market Acceptance — We cannot assure you that the market will accept our products and services. Our success depends on existing markets accepting our imagery products and services and our ability to develop new markets. Our business plan is based on the assumption that we will generate significant future revenues from sales of high-resolution imagery produced by IKONOS, OrbView-3 and eventually GeoEye-1, to existing markets and new markets. The commercial availability of high-resolution satellite imagery is still a fairly recent phenomenon. Consequently, it is difficult to predict accurately the ultimate size of the market and the market acceptance of products and services based on this type of imagery. Our strategy to target certain markets for our satellite imagery relies on a number of assumptions, some or all of which may be incorrect. Actual markets could vary materially from the potential markets that we have identified. We cannot accurately predict whether our products and services will achieve significant market acceptance or whether there will be a market for our products and services on terms we find acceptable. Market acceptance of our high-resolution satellite imagery products depends on a number of factors, including the spatial and spectral quality, scope, timeliness, sophistication, price and services and the availability of substitute products and services. Lack of significant market acceptance of our products and services, particularly our high-resolution imagery products and services, delays in acceptance, or failure of certain markets to develop would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government Contracts — We depend on contracts with government agencies for a substantial portion of our revenues. Government agencies can terminate their contracts at any time. Revenues from U.S. Government contracts accounted for approximately 61 percent, 51 percent and 30 percent of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. U.S. Government agencies may terminate or suspend their contracts at any time, with or without cause, or may change their policies, priorities or funding levels by reducing agency or program budgets or by imposing budgetary constraints. In addition, one or more of these government agencies may not continue to fund these contracts at current levels. Under the NextView imagery contract, for the six quarter period beginning on the date upon which GeoEye-1 becomes fully operational, which period we expect will end in September 2008, the U.S. Government has agreed to order approximately $197 million in imagery sales from GeoEye-1. Although we anticipate that the U.S. Government will purchase imagery under this contract, we cannot assure you that they will order or purchase imagery up to the full level specified in the contract or at all. In addition, although we anticipate that these government agencies will continue to purchase imagery and imagery products from us after the termination of the contracts under the ClearView and NextView programs, we cannot assure you that they will continue to purchase at pre-termination levels or at all. If a U.S. Government agency terminates or suspends any of its contracts with us, or changes its policies, priorities, or funding levels, these actions would have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 NextView Contract — Our NextView imagery purchasing contract is a firm fixed-price contract which could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns. We have entered into the imagery purchasing portion of the NextView program with the NGA on a firm fixed-price basis. This allows us to benefit from cost savings, but we carry the burden of cost overruns. If our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we may lose money on this contract. In addition, this contract has provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, we may not realize the full benefits of the NextView contract. Our financial condition is dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our NextView contract. Lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have a negative impact on our financial results. NextView Contract — We may encounter program delays in connection with the construction and launch of GeoEye-1. The NextView contract is subject to a set schedule of milestones culminating in the planned launch of GeoEye-1 in early 2007. The construction of the GeoEye-1 satellite and related ground system requires a large amount of advanced technical and engineering work to be done in a relatively short period of time. Because different areas of the program are interconnected, delay in one area of the program could cause delays in the other areas of the program. The failure to launch GeoEye-1 on time or to achieve system check out on time or at all could affect our ability to provide the full amount of anticipated imagery and imagery products to the NGA during the post-launch period under the NextView contract and could cause us to receive less in revenues for imagery which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Technological and Implementation Risks — We cannot assure you that our satellites will operate as designed. Our IKONOS and OrbView-3 satellites employ advanced technologies and sensors that are subject to severe environmental stresses in space that could affect the satellites’ performance. Our GeoEye-1 satellite will employ even more advanced technologies and sensors. Employing advanced technologies is further complicated by the fact that the satellites are in space. Hardware component problems in space could lead to degradation in performance or loss of functionality of the satellites, with attendant costs and revenue losses. In addition, human operators may execute improper implementation commands that negatively impact a satellite’s performance. We cannot assure you that IKONOS and OrbView-3 will continue to operate successfully throughout their expected design lives. In addition, we cannot assure that we will successfully launch GeoEye-1 or that, once launched, GeoEye-1 will operate successfully. Even if a satellite is operated properly, minor technical flaws in the satellite’s sensors could significantly degrade its performance, which could materially affect our ability to market our products successfully. Our business model depends on our ability to sell imagery from two high-resolution satellites. We do not presently have plans to construct and launch a replacement satellite for IKONOS or OrbView-3 if either satellite fails prematurely. The loss or failure of GeoEye-1 to be placed into service, or the permanent loss of IKONOS or OrbView-3, particularly if such loss were to occur prior to GeoEye-1 being placed into service, would materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Limited Life of Satellites — Satellites have limited useful lives and are expensive to replace. Satellites have limited useful lives. We determine a satellite’s useful life, or its design life, using a complex calculation involving the probabilities of failure of the satellite’s components from design or 16 manufacturing defects, environmental stresses or other causes. The design lives of our satellites are as follows: Satellite Expected Design Life OrbView-2 71/2 years (launched in August 1997) IKONOS 8 years (launched in September 1999) OrbView-3 5 years (launched in June 2003) GeoEye-1 7 years (anticipated launch early 2007) The design lives of these satellites are affected by a number of factors, including the quality of construction, the expected gradual environmental degradation of solar panels, the durability of various satellite components and the orbits in which the satellites are placed. Random failure of satellite components could cause damage to or loss of a satellite before the end of its design life. In rare cases, electrostatic storms or collisions with other objects could damage our satellites. We cannot assure you that each satellite will remain in operation for its expected design life. We expect the performance of each satellite to decline gradually near the end of its design life. Despite the fact that OrbView-2’s seven and a half year design life has expired, we currently expect to continue commercial operations with OrbView-2 for up to two and a half more years. However notwithstanding the ongoing successful operation of OrbView-2, we can offer no assurance that it will maintain its prescribed orbit or remain commercially operational past its design life. We anticipate using funds generated from operations to develop plans for follow-on high-resolution imagery satellites. If we do not generate sufficient funds from operations, we will not be able to deploy follow-on satellites to replace existing satellites at the end of their operating lives. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient funds from operations or to raise additional capital, on favorable terms or on a timely basis, if at all, to develop or deploy follow-on high-resolution satellites. Insurance — Limited insurance may not cover all risks of loss. The terms of our current notes require us to obtain launch insurance on GeoEye-1. Further we must maintain specified levels of on-orbit operations insurance for IKONOS, OrbView-3 and GeoEye-1, to the extent that such coverage can be obtained at a premium that is not disproportionately high. This insurance may not be sufficient to cover the cost of a replacement high-resolution imagery satellite such as IKONOS, OrbView-3 or GeoEye-1. We do not have any insurance coverage for the OrbView-2 satellite. In addition, we may find it difficult to insure against certain risks, such as partial degradation of functionality of a satellite. Insurance market conditions or factors outside of our control at the time we are in the market for the required insurance, such as failure of a satellite using similar components or a similar launch vehicle, could cause premiums to be significantly higher than current estimates. Higher premiums on insurance policies will increase our costs, thereby reducing our operating income by the amount of such increased premiums. Should the future terms of launch and on-orbit insurance policies become less favorable than those currently available, this may result in limits on amounts of coverage that we can obtain or may prevent us from obtaining insurance at all. Competition — We may not successfully compete in the remote imaging industry. Our products and services will compete with satellite and aircraft-based imagery and related products and services offered by a range of private and government providers. Certain of these competitors may have greater financial, personnel and other resources than we have. Our major existing U.S. commercial competitor for high-resolution satellite imagery is DigitalGlobe, which operates a high-resolution satellite with higher resolution than IKONOS and OrbView-3 and is currently developing two next generation satellites which will have more advanced technologies and capabilities than IKONOS and OrbView-3, one of which is planned to be in service in 2006, and the other of which we expect would go into service in 17 2008. There are also several international competitors, a number of which have announced programs, some of which currently compete with others and others which could compete with us in the future. These competitors include Spot Image SA (France); National Remote Sensing Agency, Department of Space, Government of India; RADARSAT International (Canada); Korea’s KOMPSAT; and ImageSat International N.V. (Israel). The U.S. Government and foreign governments also may develop, construct, launch and operate remote imaging satellites that generate imagery competitive with our products and services. The U.S. Government currently relies and is likely to continue to rely on government-owned and operated systems for highly classified satellite-based high-resolution imagery. The U.S. Government could also reduce its purchases from commercial satellite imagery providers or decrease the number of commercial satellite industry providers with which it contracts with no corresponding increase in total amount spent. Similarly, foreign governments may launch their own imagery satellites rather than purchasing imagery from commercial imagery providers such as us. In addition such governments could sell imagery from their own satellites, which could compete with our imagery products. Government-owned satellites do not need to generate a profit from their operations, so they may be able to provide their products and services at lower prices than we can. In addition, foreign competitors are not subject to the same regulations as U.S. companies, which may give them a competitive advantage. Our competitors or potential competitors with greater resources than ours could in the future offer satellite-based imagery or other products having more attractive features than our products. The emergence of new remote imaging technologies, even if not ultimately successful, could negatively affect our marketing efforts. More importantly, if competitors continue to develop and launch satellites with more advanced capabilities and technologies than ours, this competition could harm our business. Government Regulation — Failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals could result in service interruptions or could impede us from executing our business plan. FCC Approvals. Our operation of satellites and earth stations requires licenses from the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”). The FCC regulates the construction, launch and operation of our satellites, the use of satellite spectrum, and the licensing of our earth station terminals located within the United States. We currently operate OrbView-2 pursuant to experimental authority. Our experimental FCC license expires in 2007. The FCC granted authority to launch and operate IKONOS and to operate the associated earth station systems in 1999. The license to operate IKONOS will expire in 2009, and the licenses to operate the earth stations will expire between 2006 and 2010. The FCC granted authority to launch and operate OrbView-3 and to operate the associated earth station systems in 1999. The license to operate OrbView-3 will expire in 2014, and the licenses to operate the earth stations will expire in 2009. The FCC generally renews licenses routinely, but there can be no assurance that our licenses will be renewed at their expiration dates for full terms or without adverse conditions. Failure to renew these licenses could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and conduct our business as currently planned. In January 2006, the FCC granted us a license for GeoEye-1 which is subject to the completion of certain milestones in the construction, launch and placing into service of GeoEye-1 by certain dates. Failure to achieve such milestones on a timely basis could impair our ability to satisfy our obligations under the NextView contract. Other Domestic Approvals. Our business generally requires licenses from the U.S. Department of Commerce (“DoC”) and the Department of State. The DoC licenses provide that the U.S. Government may interrupt service or otherwise limit our ability to distribute satellite images to certain parties in order to address national security or foreign policy concerns. Actual or threatened interruptions or limitations on our service could adversely affect our ability to market our products abroad. In addition, the DoC has the right to review and approve our agreements with international customers for high-resolution optical imagery. We have received such approval for those of our international customers as are currently 18 operating. However, such reviews could delay or prohibit us from executing new international distributor agreements. In connection with the distributor agreements, we have in the past, and may in the future, supply our international customers with earth stations that enable these customers to downlink data directly from our satellites. Exporting these earth stations and technical information relating to these stations may require us to obtain export licenses from the DoC or the U.S. Department of State. We have obtained the licenses we currently need in order to export the equipment and information required by our existing contracts and by our current operations, and we believe that the terms of these licenses are sufficient given the scope and duration of the contracts to which they pertain. If the DoC or the Department of State does not issue these export licenses in connection with future exports, or if these licenses are significantly delayed or contain restrictions, or if the DoC or the Department of State revokes, suspends or denies a request for renewal of existing licenses, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. International Registration and Approvals. The use of satellite spectrum is subject to the requirements of the International Telecommunication Union (the “ITU”). Additionally, satellite operators must abide by the specific laws of the countries in which downlink services are provided from the satellite to earth stations terminals within such countries. The FCC has coordinated the operations of OrbView-2, IKONOS and OrbView-3 pursuant to ITU requirements, and we expect the FCC to do so for GeoEye-1. Coordination with other satellite systems helps to prevent interference from or into existing or planned satellite operations. We do not expect significant issues relating to the coordination of our satellites due to the nature of satellite imaging operations; however if the FCC fails to obtain the necessary coordination for GeoEye-1 in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers or distributors are responsible for obtaining local regulatory approval from the governments in the countries in which they do business to receive imagery downlinked directly from OrbView-2, and OrbView-3 to earth stations within such countries. If these regional distributors are not successful in obtaining the necessary approvals, we will not be able to distribute real time OrbView imagery in those regions. Our inability to offer real time service in a significant number of foreign countries could negatively affect our business. In addition, regulatory provisions in countries where we wish to operate may impose unduly burdensome restrictions on our operations. Our business may also be adversely affected if the national authorities where we plan to operate adopt treaties, regulations or legislation unfavorable to foreign companies. Risks Associated with Distributors and Resellers — Foreign distributors and domestic value-added resellers may not expand commercial markets. We rely on foreign regional distributors to market and sell internationally a significant portion of our imagery from IKONOS and OrbView-3. We also intend to rely on such foreign regional distributors for GeoEye-1 and have intensified our efforts to further develop our operations in overseas markets. We expect our existing and future foreign regional distributors to act on behalf of, or contract directly with, foreign governments to sell imagery for national security and related purposes. These regional distributors may not have the skill or experience to develop regional commercial markets for our products and services. The regional distributors may also have varying degrees of resources and some may not pay us in full. If we fail to enter into regional distribution agreements on a timely basis or if our foreign regional distributors fail to market and sell our imagery products and services successfully or pay us in full on a timely basis, these failures would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to service our debt. In particular, we acquired several new foreign regional distributors as a result of the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Space Imaging. Some of those distributors claim disputes relating to Space Imaging’s service. While it is not clear that such claims are valid, they may 19 affect our relationships with such distributors and, if determined in favor of the distributors, could result in liability. We intend to rely on value-added resellers to develop, market and sell our products and services to address certain target markets, including domestic markets. If our value-added resellers fail to develop, market and sell our products and services successfully, this failure would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to service our debt. Risks Associated with the Acquisition of Substantially All of the Assets of Space Imaging In acquiring substantially all of the assets of Space Imaging, we agreed to assume certain of Space Imaging’s liabilities. Although we performed due diligence before completing the acquisition and we anticipated many potential liabilities, liabilities may arise which were not anticipated. Our ability to file a claim against the sellers of Space Imaging may be limited, in certain cases, by the agreement pursuant to which we acquired substantially all of the assets of Space Imaging. Risk Associated with International Operation — Our international business exposes us to risks relating to increased regulation and political or economic instability in foreign markets. In 2005, approximately 38 percent of our revenues were derived from international sales, and we intend to continue to pursue international contracts. We expect to derive substantial revenues from international sales of products and services. International operations are subject to certain risks, such as: • changes in domestic and foreign governmental regulations and licensing requirements; • deterioration of once-friendly relations between the United States and a particular foreign country; • increases in tariffs and taxes and other trade barriers; • changes in political and economic stability, including fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, which may make payment in U.S. dollars more expensive for foreign customers; and • difficulties in obtaining or enforcing judgments in foreign jurisdictions. These risks are beyond our control and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 