Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected which could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Current economic conditions could materially adversely affect our operations and performance. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a tightening of the credit markets and a weakening global economy which are contributing to slowdowns in the semiconductor manufacturing industry in which we operate. Specifically, we have experienced a lengthening of the sales cycle and we have also received requests from some of our customers to defer delivery of equipment. Difficulties in obtaining capital and deteriorating market conditions pose a risk that some of our customers may not be able to obtain necessary financing on reasonable terms which could result in lower sales for the Company. For example, prior to the Spansion bankruptcy, Spansion accounted for approximately 80% of our revenues. Since declaring bankruptcy, Spansion has accounted for less than 1% of our revenues. Customers with liquidity issues may lead to additional bad debt expense for the Company. These conditions may also similarly affect our key suppliers, which could impact their ability to deliver parts and result in delays on our products. The current economic conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we are not able to reduce our operating expenses during periods of weak revenue, or if we utilize significant amounts of cash to support operating losses, and not have the ability to raise additional debt or equity financing, we may erode our cash resources and may not have sufficient cash to operate our business. In the face of the current sustained downturn in our industry and decline in our revenues, we have implemented a variety of cost controls and restructured our operations with the goal of reducing our operating costs to position ourselves to more effectively meet the needs of the currently weak market for test and burn-in equipment. During the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009 we experienced operating losses and cash outflows and our cash and cash equivalents as of May 31, 2009 were approximately $4.4 million. We took significant steps to minimize our expense levels during this period and to increase the likelihood that we will have sufficient cash to support operations during the downturn, including reducing our headcount by more than 30%, reducing compensation for officers and other salaried employees, initiating a Company-wide shutdown for one week each month and lowering the fees paid to our Board of Directors, among other spending cuts. We will continue to explore methods to further reduce our costs which may cause us to incur additional restructuring charges in the future. However, we cannot predict the amount of such charges at this time. Should the current downturn be prolonged and if we are unable to reduce our operating expenses sufficiently, we may require additional debt or equity financing to meet working capital or capital expenditure needs. While we believe our cash balances, future revenues and cash received from the sale of our bankruptcy claim against Spansion will be sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements for at least the next twelve months, we cannot determine with certainty that, if needed, we will be able to raise additional funding through either equity or debt financing under these circumstances or on what terms such financing would be available. We depend on a small number of key customers in the semiconductor manufacturing industry for a large portion of our revenues. The semiconductor manufacturing industry is highly concentrated, with a relatively small number of large semiconductor manufacturers and contract assemblers accounting for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor equipment. Sales to the Company's five largest customers accounted for approximately 95% and 98% of its net sales in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. One customer, Spansion, accounted for approximately 80% of the Company's net sales in fiscal 2009 and 2008. No other customers represented more than 10% of the Company's net sales for either fiscal 2009 or fiscal 2008. 10 We expect that sales of our products to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of net sales for the foreseeable future. In addition, sales to particular customers may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. The loss of, or reduction or delay in an order, or orders from a significant customer, or a delay in collecting or failure to collect accounts receivable from a significant customer could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. For example, Spansion declared bankruptcy in Japan in February 2009 and in the U.S. in March 2009, and has subsequently placed only small orders with the Company, which has caused our revenues to drop dramatically and impacted the ability to collect on accounts receivables. A substantial portion of our revenues is generated by relatively small volume, high value transactions. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the sale of a relatively small number of systems which typically range in purchase price from approximately $300,000 to over $1 million per system. As a result, the loss or deferral of a limited number of system sales could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and operating results in a particular period. All customer purchase orders are subject to cancellation or rescheduling by the customer with limited penalties, and, therefore, backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. From time to time, cancellations and rescheduling of customer orders have occurred, and delays by our suppliers in providing components or subassemblies to us have caused delays in our shipments of our own products. There can be no assurance that we will not be materially adversely affected by future cancellations or rescheduling. Certain contracts contain provisions that require customer acceptance prior to recognition of revenue. The delay in customer acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A substantial portion of net sales typically are realized near the end of each quarter. A delay or reduction in shipments near the end of a particular quarter, due, for example, to unanticipated shipment rescheduling, cancellations or deferrals by customers, customer credit issues, unexpected manufacturing difficulties experienced by us, or delays in deliveries by suppliers, could cause net sales in a particular quarter to fall significantly below our expectations. We rely on continued market acceptance for our FOX system, and we may not be successful in attracting new customers or maintaining our existing customers. A principal element of our business strategy is to capture an increasing share of the test equipment market through sales of our FOX wafer-level test and burn-in system. The FOX system is designed to simultaneously burn-in and functionally test all of the die on a wafer. The market for the FOX systems is in the very early stages of development. Market acceptance of the FOX system is subject to a number of risks. Before a customer will incorporate the FOX system into a production line, lengthy qualification and correlation tests must be performed. We anticipate that potential customers may be reluctant to change their procedures in order to transfer burn-in and test functions to the FOX system. Initial purchases are expected to be limited to systems used for these qualifications and for engineering studies. Market acceptance of the FOX system also may be affected by a reluctance of IC manufacturers to rely on relatively small suppliers such as Aehr Test. As is common with new complex products incorporating leading-edge technologies, we may encounter reliability, design and manufacturing issues as we begin volume production and initial installations of FOX systems at customer sites. The failure of the FOX system to achieve market acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our future operating results, long-term prospects and our stock price. In future periods, we may rely on market acceptance for our ABTS system and we may not be able to achieve sufficient market acceptance to allow our ABTS system to be commercially viable. In June 2008, we announced shipment of an ABTS beta site system to Integrated Service Technology in Taiwan. We recently booked three orders for the ABTS products, including two systems from new customers and one follow-on system order from iST. Market acceptance of the ABTS system is subject to a number of risks. In order for our ABTS system to become commercially viable, we must complete engineering development of necessary hardware and software. In addition, it is important that we achieve complete customer satisfaction and acceptance of the ABTS products. Additional customers must then be found who are willing to place orders for ABTS systems in sufficient quantities to allow it to be produced economically. We may experience a limited Burn-In System market and we depend upon continued market acceptance for our MAX system. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our net sales from the sale of dynamic burn-in systems. We believe that the market for burn-in systems is mature and is not expected to experience significant long-term growth in the future. In general, process control improvements in the semiconductor industry have tended to reduce burn-in times. In addition, as a given integrated circuit product generation matures and yields increase, the required burn-in time may be reduced or eliminated. Integrated circuit manufacturers, which historically have been our primary customer base, increasingly outsource test and burn-in to independent test labs, which often build their own systems. Our success depends upon the 11 continued acceptance of our MAX burn-in products and the acceptance of our ABTS systems within these markets. There can be no assurance that the market for burn-in systems will grow, and sales of our MAX burn-in products may decline and sales of our ABTS products may not materialize. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, which may harm our ability to forecast demand and our future operating performance. Sales of our systems depend, in significant part, upon the decision of a prospective customer to increase manufacturing capacity or to restructure current manufacturing facilities, either of which typically involves a significant commitment of capital. In addition, the approval process for FOX and MTX systems sales may require lengthy qualification and correlation testing. In view of the significant investment or strategic issues that may be involved in a decision to purchase FOX and MTX systems, we may experience delays following initial qualification of our systems as a result of delays in a customer's approval process. For these reasons, our systems typically have a lengthy sales cycle during which we may expend substantial funds and management effort in securing a sale. Lengthy sales cycles subject us to a number of significant risks, including inventory obsolescence and fluctuations in operating results, over which we have little or no control. The loss of individual orders due to the lengthy sales and evaluation cycle, or delays in the sale of even a limited number of systems impairs our ability to plan future operating levels and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and, in particular, could contribute to significant fluctuations in operating results on a quarterly basis. Our business may suffer due to risks associated with international sales and operations. Approximately 72%, 61% and 42% of our net sales for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were attributable to sales to customers for delivery outside of the United States. We operate sales, service and limited manufacturing organizations in Japan and Germany and a sales and support organization in Taiwan. We expect that sales of products for delivery outside of the United States will continue to represent a substantial portion of our future revenues. Our future performance will depend, in significant part, upon our ability to continue to compete in foreign markets which in turn will depend, in part, upon a continuation of current trade relations between the United States and foreign countries in which semiconductor manufacturers or assemblers have operations. A change toward more protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or such foreign countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance or other trade policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in foreign markets. In addition, we are subject to other risks associated with doing business internationally, including longer receivable collection periods and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection, the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws, difficulty in staffing and managing global operations, risks of civil disturbance or other events which may limit or disrupt markets, international exchange restrictions, changing political conditions and monetary policies of foreign governments. A substantial portion of our net sales has been in Asia. Turmoil in the Asian financial markets has resulted, and may result in the future, in dramatic currency devaluations, stock market declines, restriction of available credit and general financial weakness. In addition, flash, DRAM, and other memory device prices in Asia have recently declined dramatically, and may do so again in the future. These developments may affect us in several ways. We believe that many international semiconductor manufacturers limited their capital spending in fiscal year 2009, and that the uncertainty of the memory market may cause some manufacturers in the future to again delay capital spending plans. The economic conditions in Asia may also affect the ability of our customers to meet their payment obligations, resulting in cancellations or deferrals of existing orders and limiting additional orders. In addition, Asian governments have subsidized some portion of fabrication construction. Financial turmoil may reduce these governments' willingness to continue such subsidies. Such developments could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 81%, 15% and 4% of our net sales for fiscal 2009 were denominated in U.S. Dollars, Japanese Yen and Euros, respectively. Although a large percentage of net sales to European customers are denominated in U.S. Dollars, substantially all sales to Japanese customers are denominated in Yen. Because a substantial portion of our net sales is from sales of products for delivery outside the United States, an increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies would increase the cost of our products compared to products sold by local companies in such markets. In addition, since the price is determined at the time a purchase order is accepted, we are exposed to the risks of fluctuations in the U.S. Dollar exchange rate during the lengthy period from the date a purchase order is received until payment is made. This exchange rate risk is partially offset to the extent our foreign operations incur expenses in the local currency. To date, we have not invested in instruments designed to hedge currency risks. Our operating results could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies. 12 Our industry is subject to rapid technological changes and our ability to remain competitive depends on our ability to introduce new products in a timely manner. The semiconductor equipment industry is subject to rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. Our ability to remain competitive will depend in part upon our ability to develop new products and to introduce these products at competitive prices and on a timely and cost- effective basis. Our success in developing new and enhanced products depends upon a variety of factors, including product selection, timely and efficient completion of product design, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, product performance in the field and effective sales and marketing. Because new product development commitments must be made well in advance of sales, new product decisions must anticipate both future demand and the technology that will be available to supply that demand. Furthermore, introductions of new and complex products typically involve a period in which design, engineering and reliability issues are identified and addressed by our suppliers and by us. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in selecting, developing, manufacturing and marketing new products that satisfy market demand. Any such failure would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the complexity of our products, significant delays can occur between a product's introduction and the commencement of the volume production of such product. We have experienced, from time to time, significant delays in the introduction of, and technical and manufacturing difficulties with, certain of our products and may experience delays and technical and manufacturing difficulties in future introductions or volume production of our new products. Our inability to complete new product development, or to manufacture and ship products in time to meet customer requirements would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience product delays and increased costs associated with new product introductions. As is common with new complex and software-intensive products, we have encountered reliability, design and manufacturing issues as we began volume production and initial installations of certain products at customer sites. Certain of these issues in the past have been related to components and subsystems supplied to us by third parties who have in some cases limited the ability of us to address such issues promptly. This process in the past required and in the future is likely to require us to incur un-reimbursed engineering expenses and to experience larger than anticipated warranty claims which could result in product returns. In the early stages of product development there can be no assurance that we will discover any reliability, design and manufacturing issues or, that if such issues arise, that they can be resolved to the customers' satisfaction or that the resolution of such problems will not cause us to incur significant development costs or warranty expenses or to lose significant sales opportunities. Future changes in semiconductor technologies may make our products obsolete. Future improvements in semiconductor design and manufacturing technology may reduce or eliminate the need for our products. For example, improvements in BIST technology, and improvements in conventional test systems, such as reduced cost or increased throughput, may significantly reduce or eliminate the market for one or more of our products. If we are not able to improve our products or develop new products or technologies quickly enough to maintain a competitive position in our markets, we may not be able to grow our business. Semiconductor business cycles are unreliable and there is always the risk of cancellations and rescheduling which could have a material adverse affect on our operating results. Our operating results depend primarily upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, semiconductor contract assemblers and burn-in and test service companies worldwide, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits. The semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries in general, and the market for flash memories, DRAMs and other memory devices, in particular, have historically been highly volatile and have experienced periodic downturns and slowdowns, which have had severe, negative effects on the semiconductor industry's demand for semiconductor capital equipment, including test and burn-in systems manufactured and marketed by the Company. These downturns and slowdowns have adversely affected our operating results in the past. In addition, the purchasing patterns of our customers are also highly cyclical because most customers purchase our products for use in new production facilities or for upgrading existing test lines for the introduction of next generation products. Construction of new facilities and upgrades of existing facilities have in some cases been delayed or canceled during the most recent semiconductor industry downturn. A large portion of our net sales is attributable to a few customers and therefore a reduction in purchases by one or more customers could materially adversely affect our financial results. There can be no assurance that the semiconductor industry will grow in the future at the same rates as it has grown historically. Any downturn or slowdown in the semiconductor industry would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, the need to maintain investment in research and 13 development and to maintain customer service and support will limit our ability to reduce our expenses in response to any such downturn or slowdown period. The semiconductor equipment manufacturing industry has historically been subject to a relatively high rate of purchase order cancellation by customers as compared to other high technology industry sectors. Manufacturing companies that are the customers of semiconductor equipment companies frequently revise, postpone and cancel capital facility expansion plans. In such cases, semiconductor equipment companies may experience a significant rate of cancellations or rescheduling of purchase orders. There can be no assurance that we will not be materially adversely affected by future cancellations or rescheduling of purchase orders. Our stock price may fluctuate. The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. We believe that factors such as announcements of developments related to our business, fluctuations in our operating results, failure to meet securities analysts' expectations, general conditions in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries and the worldwide economy, announcement of technological innovations, new systems or product enhancements by us or our competitors, fluctuations in the level of cooperative development funding, acquisitions, changes in governmental regulations, developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and changes in our relationships with customers and suppliers could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for small capitalization and high technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Such fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stock price may remain under the threshold required by NASDAQ, which could cause our stock to be delisted from NASDAQ. Pursuant to the requirements of NASDAQ, if a company's stock price is below $1 per share for 30 consecutive trading days, NASDAQ will notify the company that it is no longer in compliance with the NASDAQ listing qualifications. The company will then have 180 calendar days to become compliant. Thereafter, companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Market can receive an additional 180-day compliance period by transferring to the NASDAQ Capital Market if they meet all initial listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market, except for the bid price requirement. Therefore, if our stock price continues to remain under the threshold required, it is possible that our stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. Any future growth may strain our operations and may require us to incur additional expenses to support these expanded operations. If we are to be successful, we must expand our operations. Such expansion will place a significant strain on our administrative, operational and financial resources. Further, such expansion will result in a continuing increase in the responsibility placed upon management personnel and will require development or enhancement of operational, managerial and financial systems and controls. If we are unable to manage the expansion of our operations effectively, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. We depend on our key personnel and our success depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of Rhea Posedel, our Chief Executive Officer, as well as other executive officers and key employees. We do not maintain key person life insurance for our benefit on any of our personnel, and none of our employees are subject to a non-competition agreement with the Company. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or a group of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future success will depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, management, sales and marketing personnel. There is a limited number of personnel with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and it has become increasingly difficult for us to hire such personnel. Competition for such personnel in the semiconductor equipment industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Changes in management could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. 14 We may be subject to litigation relating to intellectual property infringement which would be time-consuming, expensive and a distraction to our business. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our proprietary information to erode our competitive advantage, and our business and operating results could be harmed. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights, and there can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights, if challenged, will be upheld as valid. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of the patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. There are no pending claims against us regarding infringement of any patents or other intellectual property rights of others. However, in the future we may receive communications from third parties asserting intellectual property claims against us. Such claims could include assertions that our products infringe, or may infringe, the proprietary rights of third parties, requests for indemnification against such infringement or suggestions that we may be interested in acquiring a license from such third parties. There can be no assurance that any such claim will not result in litigation, which could involve significant expense to us, and, if we are required or deem it appropriate to obtain a license relating to one or more products or technologies, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. While we believe we have complied with all applicable environmental laws, our failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business as a result of having to pay substantial amounts in damages or fees. Federal, state and local regulations impose various controls on the use, storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic and other hazardous substances used in our operations. We believe that our activities conform in all material respects to current environmental and land use regulations applicable to our operations and our current facilities, and that we have obtained environmental permits necessary to conduct our business. Nevertheless, the failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in substantial fines being imposed on us, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of operations. Such regulations could require us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur substantial expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure by us to control the use, disposal or storage of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous or toxic substances could subject us to significant liabilities. While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we must include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K a report of management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, or management does not timely assess the adequacy of such internal control, or our independent registered public accounting firm does not timely deliver an unqualified opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and the public's perception may decline. Our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at the end of fiscal 2010. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 