Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS An investment in the shares of our common stock involves a substantial risk of loss. You should carefully read this entire report and should give particular attention to the following risk factors. You should recognize that other significant risks may arise in the future, which we cannot foresee at this time. Also, the risks that we now foresee might affect us to a greater or different degree than expected. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by any forward-looking statements in this document. These factors include, without limitation, the risk factors listed below and other factors presented throughout this document and any other documents filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If the FDA does not conclude that our product candidates meet statutory requirements for safety and efficacy, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for marketing in the United States, and if foreign governments do not conclude that our product candidates meet their requirements for marketing, we will be unable to sell those product candidates in those foreign markets. To achieve profitable operations, we must, alone or with others, successfully identify, develop, introduce and market proprietary products. We have not received marketing approval for any of our product candidates, although we are co-promoting two products with Allergan. We have one product candidate, diquafosol, for which we have received two approvable letters from the FDA. There is no guarantee that the FDA will approve diquafosol and allow Allergan and us to begin selling diquafosol in the United States. It may be necessary to undertake additional Phase 3 clinical trials in support of our diquafosol NDA and there can be no guarantee that any such additional clinical trials would be successful or that the FDA would approve diquafosol even if such additional clinical trials were successful. Also, if additional diquafosol Phase 3 clinical trials are required by the FDA, we may decide not to conduct those clinical trials and we would therefore be unable to obtain FDA approval of diquafosol. Even if we do receive FDA approval for diquafosol, we and Allergan may not be able to successfully commercialize diquafosol in the United States. We have not applied for marketing approval of diquafosol in any other jurisdiction. In addition to our product candidates in clinical development, we have early stage preclinical product candidates for which a substantial amount of work will be required to advance these product candidates to clinical testing and ultimately to commercial approval. We will have to conduct significant additional development activities, non-clinical and clinical tests and obtain regulatory approval before our product candidates can be commercialized. Product candidates that may appear to be promising at early stages of development may not successfully reach the market for a number of reasons. The results of preclinical and initial clinical testing of our product candidates under development may not necessarily indicate the results that will be obtained from later or more extensive testing. Accordingly, some preclinical candidates may not advance to clinical development. Additionally, companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier clinical trials. Our ongoing clinical trials might be delayed or halted for various reasons, including: • The drug is not effective or physicians think that the drug is not effective; • The drug effect is not statistically significant compared to placebo; • Patients experience severe side effects or serious adverse events during treatment; • Patients die during the clinical trial because their disease is too advanced or because they experience medical problems that may or may not relate to the drug being studied; • Patients do not enroll in the clinical trials at the rate we expect; • We decide to modify the drug during testing; 23 Table of Contents • Our commercial partners, or future commercial partners, delay, amend or change our development plan or strategy; • We allocate our limited financial and other resources to other clinical programs; and • Weather events, natural disasters, malicious activities or other unforeseen events may occur. The introduction of our products in foreign markets will subject us to foreign regulatory clearances, the receipt of which may be unpredictable, uncertain and may impose substantial additional costs and burdens which we or our partners in such foreign markets may be unwilling or unable to fund. As with the FDA, foreign regulatory authorities must be satisfied that adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficacy of the product has been presented before marketing authorization is granted. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA marketing approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure and is not a factor in obtaining approval by other regulatory authorities. Failure to successfully market and commercialize Restasis® and Elestat® will negatively impact our revenues. Allergan launched Restasis® in the United States in April 2003 and we began receiving co-promotion revenue from Allergan on the net sales of Restasis® beginning in April 2004. Although our agreement with Allergan provides, and we have exercised, the right to co-promote Restasis® in the United States, Allergan is primarily responsible for marketing and commercializing Restasis®. Accordingly, our revenues on the net sales of Restasis® are largely dependent on the actions and success of Allergan, over whom we have no control. The commercial exclusivity period for Restasis® under the Hatch-Waxman Act has expired. However, the manufacture and sale of Restasis® is protected under a use patent which expires in August 2009 and a formulation patent which expires in May 2014. If and when we experience generic competition for Restasis®, our revenues attributable to Restasis® will be significantly impacted. In February 2004, we launched Elestat® in the United States. Our agreement with Allergan provides that we have the responsibility for selling, promoting and marketing Elestat® in the United States and paying the associated costs. We expect revenues from Elestat® and Restasis® to exceed selling, promoting and marketing expenses associated with co-promotion activities for these products during the year ending December 31, 2006; however, there can be no assurances that revenues associated with such products will exceed the related expenses. Our revenues may be impacted from time to time by the number of formularies upon which these products are listed, the discounts and pricing under such formularies, as well as the estimated amount of rebates. The commercial exclusivity period for Elestat® under the Hatch-Waxman Act will expire in October 2008, after which time Elestat® could face generic or over-the-counter competition if there is no other intellectual property protection covering Elestat®. If and when we experience generic or over-the-counter competition for Elestat®, our agreement with Allergan to co-promote Elestat® will no longer be in effect, and our revenues attributable to Elestat® are expected to cease, which will materially impact our results of operations and cash flows. In December 2004, Alcon, Inc. received FDA approval of once-daily olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution. Alcon has not yet launched once-daily olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution, but Patanol® (olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution) that requires administration twice-a-day currently competes with Elestat®. We cannot predict what effect, if any, the introduction of once-daily olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution will have on our sales of Elestat®. Our present revenues depend solely upon and our future revenues will depend, at least in part, upon the acceptance of Elestat® and Restasis® by eye-care professionals, allergists and patients. Factors that could affect the acceptance of Elestat® and Restasis® include: 24 Table of Contents • Satisfaction with existing alternative therapies; • Perceived efficacy relative to other available therapies; • Extent and effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • Extent and effectiveness of Allergan’s sales and marketing efforts; • Changes in, or the levels of, third-party reimbursement of product costs; • Coverage and reimbursement under Medicare Part D; • Cost of treatment; • Marketing and sales activities of competitors; • Duration of market exclusivity of Elestat® and Restasis®; • Pricing and availability of alternative products, including generic or over-the-counter products; • Shifts in the medical community to new treatment paradigms or standards of care; • Relative convenience and ease of administration; • Prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; and • Regulatory approval in other jurisdictions. We cannot predict the potential long-term patient acceptance of, or the effects of competition and managed health care on, sales of either product. Revenues in future periods could vary significantly and may not cover our operating expenses. We recognize revenue from product co-promotion based on net sales for Elestat® and Restasis® as defined in the co-promotion agreements and as reported to us by our collaborative partner, Allergan. Accordingly, our co-promotion revenue is based upon Allergan’s revenue recognition policy, other accounting policies and the underlying terms of our co-promotion agreements. Allergan’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission indicate that Allergan maintains disclosure controls and procedures in accordance with applicable laws, which are designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be reported by Allergan in its Exchange Act filings is reported timely and in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. We are not entitled to review Allergan’s disclosure controls and procedures. All of our revenues are currently derived from net sales of Elestat® and Restasis® as reported to us by Allergan. Management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005 and these internal controls allow us to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; however, we are unable to provide complete assurance that Allergan will not revise reported revenue amounts in the future. If these reported revenue amounts were inaccurate, it could have a material impact on our financial statements, including financial statements for previous periods. We recognize milestone revenue under our collaborative research and development agreements when we have performed services under such agreements or when we or our collaborative partner has met a contractual milestone triggering a payment to us. We did not reach any such milestones in 2004 or 2005, and there can be no assurances that we will reach any during the year ending December 31, 2006 or at any later date. Revisions in the commitment period are made in the period that the facts related to the change first become known. Additionally, our revenues may fluctuate from period to period due in part to: • Fluctuations in sales of Elestat®, Restasis® and other future licensed or co-promoted products due to competition, manufacturing difficulties, reimbursement and pricing under commercial or government plans, seasonality, or other factors that affect the sales of a product; 25 Table of Contents • Deductions from gross sales relating to estimates of sales returns, credits and allowances, normal trade and cash discounts, managed care sales rebates and other allocated costs as defined in our agreements, all of which are determined by Allergan and are outside our control; • Duration of market exclusivity of Elestat® and Restasis®; • The timing of approvals, if any, for future products; • The progress toward and the achievement of developmental milestones by us or our partners; • The initiation of new contractual arrangements with other companies; • The failure or refusal of a collaborative partner to pay royalties; • The expiration or invalidation of our patents or licensed intellectual property; or • Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Failure to adequately market and commercialize diquafosol, if approved by the FDA, will limit our revenues. If approved by the FDA in the United States and other applicable regulatory authorities outside the United States, the commercial success of diquafosol will largely depend on a number of factors, including the timing and scope of Allergan’s launch into the United States and other major pharmaceutical markets, acceptance by patients and eye care professionals and allergists, the effectiveness of Allergan’s sales and marketing efforts, a knowledgeable sales force, adequate market penetration, reimbursement under commercial or government plans, and any competitors, including Allergan’s, ability to successfully launch a new dry eye therapy. Accordingly, our revenue on the net sales of diquafosol would be largely dependent on the actions and success of Allergan, over whom we have no control. In the event diquafosol is approved by the FDA, we plan to co-promote diquafosol within the United States; however, Allergan is primarily responsible for launching and marketing diquafosol in the United States and other major worldwide pharmaceutical markets, excluding Asian markets. If diquafosol is not successfully commercialized, our revenues will be limited. We cannot sell Elestat®, Restasis® or any of our product candidates if governmental approvals are not obtained and maintained. Pharmaceutical companies are subject to significant regulation by a number of national, state and local agencies, including the FDA. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals of products, product recalls, delays in product distribution, delays in marketing activities and sales, and civil or criminal sanctions. The manufacturing and marketing of drugs, including our products, are subject to continuing FDA and foreign regulatory review, and later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturing process or facility may result in restrictions, including withdrawal of the product from the market. The FDA is permitted to revisit and change its prior determinations and based on new information it may change its position with regard to the safety or effectiveness of our products. The FDA is authorized to impose post-marketing requirements such as: • Testing and surveillance to monitor the product and its continued compliance with regulatory requirements; • Submitting products for inspection and, if any inspection reveals that the product is not in compliance, the prohibition of the sale of all products from the same lot; • Suspending manufacturing; • Recalling products; 26 Table of Contents • Withdrawing marketing approval; • Seizing violative products; and • Seeking to enjoin the manufacture or distribution, or both, of an approved product that is found to be adulterated or misbranded. Even before any formal regulatory action, we, or our collaborative partners, could voluntarily decide to cease distribution and sale or recall any of our products if concerns about safety or effectiveness develop, or if economic conditions support such action. In its regulation of advertising, the FDA may issue correspondence to pharmaceutical companies alleging that its advertising or promotional materials are false, misleading or deceptive. The FDA has the power to impose a wide array of sanctions on companies for such advertising practices and if we were to receive correspondence from the FDA alleging these practices we might be required to: • Incur substantial expenses, including fines, penalties, legal fees and costs to conform to the FDA’s limits on such promotion; • Change our methods of marketing and selling products; • Take FDA-mandated corrective action, which could include placing advertisements or sending letters to physicians rescinding previous advertisements or promotion; or • Disrupt the distribution of products and stop sales until we are in compliance with the FDA’s position. In recent years, various legislative proposals have been offered in Congress and in some state legislatures that include major changes in the health care system. These proposals have included price or patient reimbursement constraints on medicines and restrictions on access to certain products. We cannot predict the outcome of such initiatives and it is difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting us. We have been named as a defendant in litigation that could result in substantial damages and costs and divert management’s attention and resources. On February 15, 2005, a purported class action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina by Mirco Investors, LLC on behalf of itself and all other similarly situated purchasers against us and certain of our senior officers. The complaint alleges violations of sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 10b-5, and focuses on statements that are claimed to be false and misleading regarding a Phase 3 clinical trial of our dry eye product candidate, diquafosol. The plaintiffs seek unspecified damages on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of our securities during the period from June 2, 2004 through February 8, 2005. Four additional proposed stockholder class actions were filed in the same court, making substantially the same allegations against the same parties as defendants and seeking certification of the same class of purchasers. These individual lawsuits have now been consolidated into a single civil action, and a lead plaintiff appointed. We anticipate that an amended consolidated complaint may be filed in March 2006. We intend to defend the litigation vigorously. No assurance can be made that we will be successful in our defense of the pending claims. If we are not successful in our defense of the claims, we could be forced to, among other ramifications, make significant payments to resolve the claims and such payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, future results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows if not covered by our insurance carriers or if damages exceed the limits of our insurance. Furthermore, regardless of our success in defending against the litigation, the litigation itself may result in substantial costs, use of resources and divert the attention of management and other employees which could adversely affect our business. 27 Table of Contents The investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission could have a material adverse effect on our business. On August 30, 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission notified us that it is conducting a formal, nonpublic investigation, which we believe relates to trading in our securities surrounding our February 9, 2005 announcement of the results of a Phase 3 clinical trial of our dry eye product candidate, diquafosol, as well as our disclosures regarding this Phase 3 clinical trial. We are continuing to cooperate with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s ongoing investigation. We are unable to predict the outcome of the investigation and no assurance can be made that the investigation will be concluded favorably. In the event of an adverse outcome, our business future results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows could be materially affected. Furthermore, regardless of the outcome of the investigation, the investigation itself may result in substantial uninsured costs, use of resources and divert the attention of management and other employees which could adversely affect our business. Recent Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation and future legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our or our partner’s ability to sell products profitably. In both the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the United States, new Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage legislation was signed into law in December 2003. The voluntary benefit covers certain outpatient prescription drugs effective January 1, 2006. Beneficiaries who chose to participate select either (i) a qualified prescription drug plan, which is a stand-alone, drug-only insurance benefit offered by a private entity licensed to offer health insurance under state law; or (ii) a Medicare Advantage managed care plan that includes prescription drug coverage along with other Medicare services. Participating drug plans may establish drug formularies that exclude coverage of specific drugs, and payment levels for drugs negotiated with Part D drug plans may be lower than reimbursement levels available through private health plans or other payers. Moreover, beneficiary co-insurance requirements could influence which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. There is no assurance that our drugs will be offered by drug plans participating under the new Medicare Part D program, that, if covered, the terms of any such coverage, or that covered drugs will be reimbursed at amounts that reflect current or historical levels. Allergan is responsible for the implementation of the Medicare Part D program as it relates to Elestat® and Restasis®. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the reimbursement changes emerging in 2006 and in future years from the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation. To the extent that private insurers such as Blue Cross and Blue Shield or managed care programs follow Medicare coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects of lower Medicare payment may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment. New federal or state drug payment changes or healthcare reforms in the United States may be enacted or adopted in the future that could further lower payment for our products. Future implementation of certain government initiatives could create risks for our business. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, established a new voluntary outpatient prescription drug benefit under Part D of the Social Security Act. The program, which went into effect January 1, 2006, is administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, within the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS. CMS has issued extensive regulations and other subregulatory guidance documents implementing the new benefit. Moreover, the HHS Office of Inspector General has issued regulations and other guidance in connection with the program. Allergan has contracted with Part D plan sponsors to cover our drugs under the Part D benefit. The federal government can be expected to continue to issue guidance and regulation regarding the obligations of Part D sponsors and their subcontractors. The receipt of federal funds through the Part D program may require us to comply with these new policies as well as other established laws and regulations governing the federal government’s payment for health care goods and services. There are many uncertainties about the financial and regulatory risks of participating in the Medicare Part D program, and we can give no assurance that these risks will not be material to our business in future periods. 28 Table of Contents Failure to adequately control compliance with all applicable regulations may adversely affect our business. There are extensive state, federal and foreign regulations applicable to public pharmaceutical companies engaged in the discovery, development and commercialization of medicinal products. There are laws that govern areas including financial controls, clinical trials, testing, manufacturing, labeling, safety, packaging, shipping, distribution and promotion of pharmaceuticals. While we have implemented corporate quality, ethics and compliance programs based on current best practices, we cannot guarantee against all possible transgressions. The potential ramifications are far-reaching if there are areas identified as out of compliance by regulatory agencies including, but not limited to, significant financial penalties, manufacturing and clinical trial consent decrees, commercialization restrictions or other restrictions and litigation. Since our clinical candidates utilize new or different mechanisms of action and in some cases there may be no regulatory precedents, conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approval may be difficult, expensive and prolonged, which would delay any marketing of our products. To complete successful clinical trials, our candidates must demonstrate safety and provide substantial evidence of efficacy, which the FDA evaluates based on the statistical significance of a candidate meeting predetermined clinical endpoints. The design of clinical trials to establish meaningful endpoints is done in collaboration with the FDA prior to the commencement of clinical trials. We establish these endpoints based on guidance from the FDA, including FDA guidance documents applicable to establishing the efficacy, safety and tolerability measures required for approval of products. However, since many of our product candidates utilize new or different mechanisms of action, the FDA may not have established guidelines for the design of our clinical trials and may take longer than average to consider our product candidates for approval. The FDA could change its view on clinical trial design and establishment of appropriate standards for efficacy, safety and tolerability and require a change in clinical trial design, additional data or even further clinical trials before granting approval of our product candidates. We could encounter delays and increased expenses in our clinical trials if the FDA determines that the endpoints established for a clinical trial do not adequately predict a clinical benefit. We have one product candidate, diquafosol, for which we have received two approvable letters from the FDA. There is no guarantee that the FDA will approve diquafosol and allow Allergan and us to begin selling diquafosol in the United States. It may be necessary to undertake additional Phase 3 clinical trials in support of our diquafosol NDA and there can be no guarantee that any such additional clinical trials would be successful or that the FDA would approve diquafosol even if such additional clinical trials were successful. Also, if additional diquafosol Phase 3 clinical trials are required by the FDA, we may decide not to conduct those clinical trials and we would therefore be unable to obtain FDA approval of diquafosol. We cannot predict or guarantee the outcome or timing of our Phase 3 program for denufosol for cystic fibrosis. A significant amount of work will be required to advance denufosol through clinical testing, including satisfactory completion of additional clinical trials and toxicology and carcinogenicity studies. There can be no assurance that we, either alone or with the support of any other third party, will be able to recruit sufficient patients for any clinical trial. We may later decide to change the focus of a Phase 3 program. The Phase 3 clinical trials for denufosol for cystic fibrosis may not be successful or unexpected safety concerns may emerge that would negatively change the risk/benefit profile for this product candidate. Even if such clinical trials are successful, we cannot predict when, or if, the FDA or other regulatory authorities will approve denufosol and allow its commercialization. After initial regulatory approval, the FDA continues to monitor and regulate a marketed product and its manufacturer. The FDA may require us or our partners to conduct long-term safety studies after approval. Discovery of previously unknown problems through adverse event reporting may result in restrictions on the product, including withdrawal from the market. The FDA could seize a product that is adulterated or misbranded and seek to enjoin further manufacture. The FDA could withdraw approval to market a product. Additionally, we and our officers and directors could be subject to civil and criminal penalties as a result of such problems. 29 Table of Contents Estimated development costs are difficult to project and may change frequently prior to regulatory approval. While all new compounds require standard regulated phases of testing, the actual type and scope of testing can vary significantly among different product candidates which may result in significant disparities in total costs required to complete the respective development programs. The number and type of studies that may be required by the FDA, or other regulatory authorities, for a particular compound are based on the compound’s clinical profile compared to existing therapies for the targeted patient population. Factors that affect the costs of a clinical trial include: • The number of patients required to participate in clinical trials to demonstrate statistical significance for a drug’s safety and efficacy and the number and geographical location of clinical trial sites necessary to enroll such patients; • The time required to enroll the targeted number of patients in clinical trials, which may vary depending on the size and availability of the targeted patient population and the perceived benefit to the clinical trial participants; and • The number and type of required laboratory tests supporting clinical trials. Other activities required before submitting an NDA include regulatory preparation for submission, biostatistical analyses, scale-up synthesis, and validation of commercial product. In addition, prior to product launch, production of a certain amount of commercial grade drug product inventory meeting FDA cGMP standards is required, and the manufacturing facility must pass an inspection conducted by the FDA to determine whether the product can be consistently manufactured to meet cGMP requirements. Also, ongoing development programs and associated costs are subject to frequent, significant and unpredictable changes due to a number of factors, including: • Data collected in preclinical or clinical trials may prompt significant changes, delays or enhancements to an ongoing development program; • Commercial partners and the underlying contractual agreements may require additional or more involved clinical or preclinical activities; • The FDA, or other regulatory authorities, may direct the sponsor to change or enhance its ongoing development program based on developments in the testing of similar compounds or related compounds; • Unexpected regulatory requirements or interim reviews by regulatory agencies may cause delays or changes to development programs; and • Anticipated manufacturing costs may change significantly due to required changes in manufacturing processes, variances from anticipated manufacturing process yields or changes in the cost and/or availability of starting materials, and other costs to ensure the manufacturing facility is in compliance with cGMP requirements and is capable of consistently producing the drug candidate in accordance with established specifications submitted to the FDA. If we are not able to obtain sufficient additional funding to meet our expanding capital requirements, we may be forced to reduce or eliminate research programs and product development. We have used substantial amounts of cash to fund our research and development activities. Our operating expenses were approximately $58.8 million and approximately $56.6 million in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We anticipate that our operating expenses in 2006 will increase from our 2005 operating expenses. Our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled approximately $122.3 million 30 Table of Contents on December 31, 2005. We expect that our capital and operating expenditures will continue to exceed our revenue over the next several years as we conduct our research and development activities, clinical trials and commercial activities. Many factors will influence our future capital needs, including: • The number, breadth and progress of our research and development programs; • The size and scope of our marketing programs; • Our ability to attract collaborators for our products and establish and maintain those relationships; • Achievement of milestones under our existing collaborations with Allergan and Santen, and any future collaborative programs; • Progress by our collaborators; • The level of activities relating to commercialization of our products; • Competing technological and market developments; • The costs involved in defending any litigation claims against us; • The costs involved in responding to SEC investigations; • The costs involved in enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and • The costs and timing of regulatory approvals. In addition, our capital requirements will depend upon: • The receipt of revenue from Allergan on net sales of Elestat® and Restasis®; • The receipt of milestone payments from collaborative agreements; • Our ability to obtain approval from the FDA for our first product candidate, diquafosol; • Upon any such approval, our ability together with the ability of our marketing partner, Allergan, to generate sufficient sales of diquafosol; • Future potential revenue from Santen; and • Payments from future collaborators. In the event that we do not receive timely regulatory approvals, we may need substantial additional funds to fully develop, manufacture, market and sell all of our other potential products and support our co-promotion efforts. We may seek such additional funding through public or private equity offerings and debt financings. Additional financing may not be available when needed. If available, such financing may not be on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. Stockholders’ ownership will be diluted if we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities. If we raise funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we may have to give up rights to our technologies or product candidates which are involved in these future collaborations and arrangements or grant licenses on unfavorable terms. If adequate funds are not available, we would have to scale back or terminate research programs and product development and we may not be able to successfully commercialize any product candidate. Clinical trials may take longer to complete and cost more than we expect, which would adversely affect our ability to commercialize product candidates and achieve profitability. Clinical trials are lengthy and expensive. They require appropriate identification of optimal treatment regimens and relevant patient population, adequate supplies of drug product, and sufficient patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • The size and availability of the relevant patient population; 31 Table of Contents • The nature of the protocol; • The proximity of patients to clinical sites; • The eligibility criteria for the clinical trial; and • The perceived benefit of participating in a clinical trial. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. For example, enrollment in our denufosol Phase 2 clinical trials for retinal detachment and macular edema progressed at a significantly slower rate than originally anticipated and we discontinued enrollment in these clinical trials. In addition, the timing of our Phase 3 program for denufosol for the treatment of cystic fibrosis will be impacted by a number of variables, including clinical development decisions regarding identifying the optimal treatment regimens, patient population, competition for clinical trial participants, approval of other products during our clinical trials, number and length of clinical trials, parallel versus sequential timing of our clinical trials, the exclusion criteria for the clinical trials and use of non standard therapies such as hypertonic saline. These cystic fibrosis clinical trials will present some unique challenges due to the early-intervention approach we are taking with regards to the clinical trials. This will require studying mild patients and usually younger patients who do not typically participate in clinical trials since new products are generally focused on the sicker patient population. In addition, due to the age group of these mild patients, many will be in school and will be required to take the medication three times a day. Even if we successfully complete clinical trials, we may not be able to submit any required regulatory submissions in a timely manner and we may not receive regulatory approval for the product candidate. In addition, if the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities require additional clinical trials, we could face increased costs and significant development delays. From time to time, we conduct clinical trials in different countries around the world and are subject to the risks and uncertainties of doing business internationally. Disruptions in communication and transportation, changes in governmental policies, civil unrest and currency exchange rates may affect the time and costs required to complete clinical trials in other countries. Changes in regulatory policy or new regulations could also result in delays or rejection of our applications for approval of our product candidates. Product candidates designated as “fast track” products by the FDA may not continue to qualify for expedited review. Even if some of our product candidates receive “fast track” designation, the FDA may not approve them at all or any sooner than other product candidates that do not qualify for expedited review. Our common stock price has been volatile and your investment in our stock may decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. These fluctuations create a greater risk of capital losses for our stockholders as compared to less volatile stocks. Factors that have caused volatility and could cause additional volatility in the market price of our common stock include among others: • Announcements regarding our NDA or foreign regulatory equivalent submissions; • Announcements made by us concerning results of our clinical trials with diquafosol, denufosol for the treatment of cystic fibrosis, INS50589 Antiplatelet and any other product candidates; • Market acceptance and market share of products we co-promote; • Duration of market exclusivity of Elestat® and Restasis®; • Volatility in other securities including pharmaceutical and biotechnology securities; • Changes in government regulations; • Regulatory actions and/or investigations, including our ongoing SEC investigation; 32 Table of Contents • Changes in the development priorities of our collaborators that result in changes to, or termination of, our agreements with such collaborators, including our agreements with Allergan and Santen; • Developments concerning proprietary rights including patents by us or our competitors; • Variations in our operating results; • Litigation; • Terrorist attacks; and • Military actions. Extreme price and volume fluctuations occur in the stock market from time to time that can particularly affect the prices of biotechnology companies. These extreme fluctuations are sometimes unrelated to the actual performance of the affected companies. If we continue to incur operating losses for a period longer than anticipated, or in an amount greater than anticipated, we may be unable to continue our operations. We have experienced significant losses since inception. We incurred net losses of $31.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $44.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was approximately $203.0 million. We expect to incur significant operating losses over the next several years and expect that cumulative losses may increase in the near-term due to expanded research and development efforts, preclinical studies, clinical trials and commercialization efforts. We expect that losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and that such fluctuations may be substantial. Such fluctuations will be affected by the following: • Timing of regulatory approvals and commercial sales of our product candidates and any co-promotion products; • The level of patient demand for our products and any licensed products; • Timing of payments to and from licensors and corporate partners; • Timing of investments in new technologies and commercial capability; • Commercialization activities to support co-promotion efforts; and • The costs involved in defending any litigation claims against, or government investigations of, us. To achieve and sustain profitable operations, we must, alone or with others, develop successfully, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and sell our products. The time frame necessary to achieve market success is long and uncertain. We may not generate sufficient product revenues to become profitable or to sustain profitability. If the time required to achieve profitability is longer than we anticipate, we may not be able to continue our business. If we fail to reach milestones or to make annual minimum payments or otherwise breach our obligations under our license agreements, our licensors may terminate our agreements with them. We hold licenses for diquafosol tetrasodium for respiratory diseases and a P2Y12 receptor program for cardiovascular uses from UNC. In addition, we also have a license agreement for glaucoma technologies with WARF, and a development and license agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim which grants us certain exclusive rights to develop and market an intranasal dosage form of epinastine, in the United States and Canada, for the treatment or prevention of rhinitis. If we fail to meet performance milestones relating to the timing of regulatory filings or fail to pay the minimum annual payments under our respective licenses, our licensors may terminate the applicable license. In addition, if any licensor were to re-license some or all of the technologies currently covered by our licenses, competitors could develop products that compete with ours. 33 Table of Contents It may be necessary in the future for us to obtain additional licenses to avoid infringement of third party patents. Additionally, we may enter into license arrangements with other third parties as we build our product portfolio. We do not know the terms on which such licenses may be available, if at all. Reliance on a single party to manufacture and supply either finished product or the bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients for a product or product candidates could adversely affect us. Under our agreements with Allergan, Allergan is responsible for the manufacture and supply of Elestat®, Restasis®, and diquafosol, if approved by the FDA. It is our understanding that Allergan relies upon an arrangement with a single third party for the manufacture and supply of APIs for Elestat®, Restasis®, and will do so for diquafosol, if it is approved by the FDA. Allergan then completes the manufacturing process to yield finished product. In the event such third party was unable to supply Allergan, if such supply was unreasonably delayed, or if Allergan was unable to complete the manufacturing cycle, sales of the product could be adversely impacted, which would result in a reduction in any revenue from product co-promotion received under our agreements with Allergan. In addition, if Allergan or the third party manufacturer do not maintain cGMP compliance, the FDA could require corrective actions or take enforcement actions that could affect production and availability of the product thus adversely affecting sales. In addition, we have relied upon supply agreements with third parties for the manufacture and supply of the bulk APIs for our product candidates for purposes of preclinical testing and clinical trials. We presently depend upon one vendor as the sole manufacturer of our supply of APIs for diquafosol and denufosol, one vendor as the sole manufacturer for INS50589, and one vendor as the sole manufacturer of epinastine. We intend to contract with these vendors, as necessary, for commercial scale manufacturing of our products where we are responsible for such activities. In the case of diquafosol, we expect Allergan to purchase commercial quantities of bulk APIs from our sole manufacturer, including initial launch quantities should the product candidate receive FDA approval. In addition, if Allergan or the third party manufacturer do not maintain cGMP compliance, the FDA could require corrective actions or take enforcement actions that could affect production and availability of the product thus adversely affecting sales. Although we have identified alternate sources for our product candidates, it would be time consuming and costly to qualify these sources. If our vendors were to terminate our arrangement or fail to meet our supply needs we might be forced to delay our development programs and/or be unable to supply products to the market which could delay or reduce revenues and result in loss of market share. If we are unable to contract with third parties for the synthesis of APIs required for preclinical testing, for the manufacture of drug products for clinical trials, or for the large-scale manufacture of any approved products, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our drug products. We have no experience or capabilities to conduct the large-scale manufacture of any of our product candidates. We do not currently expect to engage directly in the manufacturing of drug substance or drug products, but instead intend to contract with third parties to accomplish these tasks. With the exception of Santen, for which we are required to supply bulk APIs, all of our partners are responsible for making their own arrangements for the manufacture of drug products, including arranging for the manufacture of bulk APIs. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of both drug substance and finished drug products that remain unpartnered may adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver such products on a timely and competitive basis. Similarly, our dependence on our partners to arrange for their own supplies of finished drug products may adversely affect our revenues. If we, or our partners, are unable to engage or retain third party manufacturers on commercially acceptable terms, our products may not be commercialized as planned. Our strategy of relying on third parties for manufacturing capabilities presents the following risks: • The manufacturing processes for most of our APIs have not been validated at the scale required for commercial sales; • Delays in scale-up to commercial quantities and any change at the site of manufacture could delay clinical trials, regulatory submissions and ultimately the commercialization of our products; 34 Table of Contents • Manufacturers of our products are subject to the FDA’s cGMP regulations, and similar foreign standards that apply, and we do not necessarily have full control over compliance with these regulations by third party manufacturers; • The FDA must inspect and approve a facility before an NDA is approved and the facility is subject to ongoing post-approval FDA inspections to ensure continued compliance with cGMP regulations; • If the manufacturing facility does not maintain cGMP compliance after NDA approval, the FDA has the authority to seize product produced under such conditions and may seek to enjoin further manufacture and distribution, as well as other equitable remedies; • Without satisfactory long-term agreements with manufacturers, we will not be able to develop or commercialize our product candidates as planned or at all; • We may not have intellectual property rights, or may have to share intellectual property rights, to any improvements in the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our product candidates; and • If we are unable to engage or retain an acceptable third party manufacturer for any of our product candidates, we would either have to develop our own manufacturing capabilities or delay the development of such product candidate. We may not be successful in our efforts to expand our product portfolio. A key element in our strategy is to develop and commercialize new ophthalmic and respiratory/allergy products. We are seeking to do so through our internal research program and through licensing or otherwise acquiring the rights to potential new drugs and drug targets. A significant portion of the research that we are conducting involves new and unproven technologies. Research programs to identify new disease targets and product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources whether or not we ultimately identify any candidates. Our research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development for a number of reasons, including: • The research methodology used may not be successful in identifying potential product candidates; or • Potential product candidates may, upon further study, be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate they are unlikely to be successful drugs. We may be unable to license or acquire suitable product candidates or products from third parties for a number of reasons. The licensing and acquisition of pharmaceutical products is a competitive area. A number of more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire products in our core therapeutic areas. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. Other factors that may prevent us from licensing or otherwise acquiring suitable product candidates include the following: • We may be unable to license or acquire the relevant technology on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return on the product; • Companies that perceive us to be their competitors may be unwilling to assign or license their product rights to us; or • We may be unable to identify suitable products or product candidates within our area of expertise. If we are unable to develop suitable potential product candidates through internal research programs or by obtaining rights to novel therapeutics from third parties, our business will suffer. 35 Table of Contents Our dependence on collaborative relationships may lead to delays in product development, lost revenues and disputes over rights to technology. Our business strategy depends to some extent upon the formation of research collaborations, licensing and/or marketing arrangements. We currently have a development collaboration with Santen and development and commercialization collaborations with Allergan. The termination of any collaboration may lead to delays in product development and disputes over technology rights and may reduce our ability to enter into collaborations with other potential partners. Allergan and Santen may immediately terminate their agreements with us if we breach the applicable agreement and fail to cure the breach within 60 days of being notified of such breach. If we materially breach our co-promotion agreement with Allergan for Elestat®, Allergan has the right to terminate the agreement upon 90 days written notice if we fail to cure the breach within that 90 day period. If we do not maintain the Allergan or Santen collaborations, or establish additional research and development collaborations or licensing arrangements, it will be difficult to develop and commercialize products using our technology. Any future collaborations or licensing arrangements may not be on terms favorable to us. Our current or any future collaborations or licensing arrangements ultimately may not be successful. Under our current strategy, and for the foreseeable future, we do not expect to develop or market products on our own in all global markets or outside our therapeutic areas of focus. We are currently pursuing the out-licensing of certain rights related to our cystic fibrosis and platelet programs. We may be unsuccessful in out-licensing these programs or we may out-license these programs on terms that are not favorable to us. We will continue to depend on collaborators and contractors for the preclinical study and clinical development of therapeutic products and for manufacturing and marketing of products which result from our technology. Our agreements with collaborators typically allow them some discretion in electing whether to pursue such activities. If any collaborator were to breach or terminate its agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct collaborative activities in a timely and successful manner, the preclinical or clinical development or commercialization of product candidates or research programs would be delayed or terminated. Any delay or termination in clinical development or commercialization would delay or eliminate potential product revenues relating to our research programs. Disputes may arise in the future over the ownership of rights to any technology developed with collaborators. These and other possible disagreements between us and our collaborators could lead to delays in the collaborative development or commercialization of therapeutic or diagnostic products. Such disagreement could also result in litigation or require arbitration to resolve. We may not be able to successfully compete with other biotechnology companies and established pharmaceutical companies. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our competitors in the United States and elsewhere are numerous and include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions. Competitors in our core therapeutic areas include: Alcon, Inc.; ISTA Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; MedPointe Pharmaceuticals; Merck & Co, Inc.; Nascent Pharmaceuticals; Novartis; Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.; Pfizer, Inc.; Senju Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd.; Sucampo Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (ophthalmic); Chiron Corporation; Corus Pharma Inc.; Genaera Corporation; Genentech, Inc.; Lantibio, Inc.; Predix Pharmaceuticals Holdings, Inc.; Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (cystic fibrosis); AstraZeneca plc; Sanofi-Aventis; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; Eli Lilly and Company; The Medicines Company; and Portola Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (cardiovascular diseases) AstraZeneca; GlaxoSmithKline; MedPointe Pharmaceuticals; Schering-Plough; and Sonofi-Aventis (allergic rhinitis). Most of these competitors have greater resources than we or our collaborative partners, including greater financial resources, larger research and development staffs and more experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations. In addition, most of our competitors have greater experience than we do in conducting preclinical and clinical trials and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for product candidates more rapidly than we do. Companies that 36 Table of Contents complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals, and commence commercial sale of their drugs before we do may achieve a significant competitive advantage, including patent and FDA marketing exclusivity rights that would delay our ability to market products. Drugs resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with our collaborative partners, may not compete successfully with competitors’ existing products or products under development. Acquisitions of competing companies and potential competitors by large pharmaceutical companies or others could enhance financial, marketing and other resources available to such competitors. Academic and government institutions have become increasingly aware of the commercial value of their research findings and are more likely to enter into exclusive licensing agreements with commercial enterprises to market commercial products. Many of our competitors have far greater resources than we do and may be better able to afford larger license fees and milestones attractive to those institutions. Our competitors may also develop technologies and drugs that are safer, more effective, or less costly than any we are developing or which would render our technology and future drugs obsolete and non-competitive. In addition, alternative approaches to treating diseases, such as gene therapy, which we have targeted, such as cystic fibrosis, may make our product candidates obsolete. We will rely substantially on third parties to market, distribute and sell our products and those third parties may not perform. We have developed a commercialization organization to co-promote Elestat®, Restasis®, and diquafosol, if approved, but we are dependent on Allergan, or other experienced third parties, to perform or assist us in the marketing, distribution or sale of these products and our product candidates. In addition, we may not identify acceptable partners or enter into favorable agreements with them for our other product candidates. If third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected sales goals, or maximize the commercial potential of our products, we may be required to hire or expand our own staff and sales force to compete successfully, which may not be possible. If Allergan or other third parties do not perform, or assist us in performing, these functions, it could have an adverse effect on product revenue and our overall operations. We have had limited experience in sales, marketing or distribution of products. We have established a sales force to market and distribute Elestat®, Restasis® as well as other potential products. Although the members of our sales force have had experience in sales with other companies, prior to 2004 we never had a sales force and we may undergo difficulties maintaining the sales force. We have incurred substantial expenses in establishing and maintaining the sales force, including substantial additional expenses for the training and management of personnel and the infrastructure to enable the sales force to be effective. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses in the future. The costs of maintaining our sales force may exceed our product revenues. We compete with many companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Many of these competing companies have had substantially more experience in, and financial resources for sales, marketing and distribution. Failure to hire and retain key personnel or to identify, appoint and elect qualified directors, may hinder our product development programs and our business efforts. We depend on the principal members of management and scientific staff, including Christy L. Shaffer, Ph.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer and a director, and Thomas R. Staab, II, our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. If these people leave us, we may have difficulty conducting our operations. We have not entered into agreements with any officers or any other members of our management and scientific staff that bind them to a specific period of employment. We also depend upon the skills and guidance of the independent members of our Board of Directors. While our Board of Directors has instituted succession planning steps to identify qualified board candidates to fill open board seats, there can be no assurance that we can identify, appoint and elect qualified candidates to serve as new members of the Board of Directors. We presently have one 37 Table of Contents vacancy on our Board of Directors. Our future success also will depend in part on our ability to attract, hire and retain additional personnel skilled or experienced in the pharmaceutical industry. There is intense competition for such qualified personnel. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel. If our patent protection is inadequate, the development and any possible sales of our product candidates could suffer or competitors could force our products completely out of the market. Our business and competitive position depends on our ability to continue to develop and protect our products and processes, proprietary methods and technology. Except for patent claims covering new chemical compounds, most of our patents are use patents containing claims covering methods of treating disorders and diseases by administering therapeutic chemical compounds. Use patents, while providing adequate protection for commercial efforts in the United States, may afford a lesser degree of protection in other countries due to their patent laws. Besides our use patents, we have patents and patent applications covering compositions (new chemical compounds), pharmaceutical formulations and processes for large-scale manufacturing. Many of the chemical compounds included in the claims of our use patents and process applications were known in the scientific community prior to our patent applications. None of our composition patents or patent applications cover these previously known chemical compounds, which are in the public domain. As a result, competitors may be able to commercialize products that use the same previously known chemical compounds used by us for the treatment of disorders and diseases not covered by our use patents. Such competitors’ activities may reduce our revenues. If we must defend a patent suit, or if we choose to initiate a suit to have a third party patent declared invalid, we may need to make considerable expenditures of money and management time in litigation. We believe that there is significant litigation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. A patent does not provide the patent holder with freedom to operate in a way that infringes the patent rights of others. While we are not aware of any patent that we are infringing, nor have we been accused of infringement by any other party, other companies may have, or may acquire, patent rights which we might be accused of infringing. A judgment against us in a patent infringement action could cause us to pay monetary damages, require us to obtain licenses, or prevent us from manufacturing or marketing the affected products. In addition, we may need to initiate litigation to enforce our proprietary rights against others. Should we choose to do this, as with the above, we may need to make considerable expenditures of money and management time in litigation. Further, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, to determine the priority of invention of any of our technologies. Our ability to develop sufficient patent rights in our pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology products to support commercialization efforts is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. For instance, the USPTO examiners may not allow our claims in examining our patent applications. If we have to appeal a decision to the USPTO’s Appeals Board for a final determination of patentability we could incur significant legal fees. Since we rely upon trade secrets and agreements to protect some of our intellectual property, there is a risk that unauthorized parties may obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We rely upon the laws of trade secrets and non-disclosure agreements and other contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary compounds, methods, processes, formulations and other information for which we are not seeking patent protection. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary technologies, processes, information systems and data, and we continue to explore ways to further enhance security. However, despite these efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Employees, academic collaborators and consultants with whom we have entered confidentiality and/or non-disclosure agreements may improperly disclose our proprietary information. In addition, competitors may, through a variety of proper means, independently develop substantially the equivalent of our proprietary information and technologies, gain access to our trade secrets, or properly design around any of our patented technologies. 38 Table of Contents If physicians and patients do not accept our product candidates, they will not be commercially successful. Even if regulatory authorities approve our product candidates, those products may not be commercially successful. Acceptance of and demand for our products will depend largely on the following: • Acceptance by physicians and patients of our products as safe and effective therapies; • Reimbursement of drug and treatment costs by government programs and third party payors; • Effectiveness of Allergan’s sales and marketing efforts; • Marketing and sales activities of competitors; • Safety, effectiveness and pricing of alternative products; and • Prevalence and severity of side effects associated with our products. In addition, to achieve broad market acceptance of our product candidates, in many cases we will need to develop, alone or with others, convenient methods for administering the products. We intend that diquafosol for the treatment of dry eye disease will be applied from a vial containing a single day’s dosage of non-preserved medication. Patients may prefer to purchase preserved medication for multiple doses. We have not yet established a plan to develop a multi-dose formulation. Although our partner, Santen, is developing a multi-dose formulation for use in its licensed territories, a multi-dose formulation has not been developed by our other partner, Allergan, for use in the remainder of the world. In addition, denufosol for the treatment of cystic fibrosis is administered by a standard nebulizer three times a day but patients may prefer a smaller, more portable, hand-held device. Similar challenges may exist in identifying and perfecting convenient methods of administration for our other product candidates. Our operations involve a risk of injury from hazardous materials, which could be very expensive to us. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. If such an accident were to occur, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are substantial. Our commercial insurance and umbrella policies include limited coverage designated for pollutant clean-up and removal and limited general liability coverage per occurrence and in the aggregate. The cost of these policies is significant and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain these policies or that coverage amounts will be sufficient to insure potential losses. Use of our products may result in product liability claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Clinical trials or manufacturing, marketing and sale of our potential products may expose us to liability claims from the use of those products. Although we carry clinical trial liability insurance and product liability insurance, we, or our collaborators, may not maintain sufficient insurance. We do not have the financial resources to self-insure and it is unlikely that we will have these financial resources in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to protect against potential product liability claims adequately, we may find it difficult or impossible to continue to co-promote our products, or to commercialize the product candidates we develop. If claims or losses exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may go out of business. Insurance coverage is increasingly more costly and difficult to obtain or maintain. While we currently have insurance for our business, property, directors and officers, and our products, insurance is increasingly more costly and narrower in scope, and we may be required to assume more risk in the 39 Table of Contents future. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage in excess of our insurance coverage, we will be required to share that risk in excess of our insurance limits. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage that is outside of our insurance coverage, we may incur significant uninsured costs associated with loss or damage that could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial position. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may impact our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs or at all. Future sales by stockholders into the public market may cause our stock price to decline. Future sales of our common stock by current stockholders into the public market could cause the market price of our stock to fall. As of January 31, 2006, there were 42,210,593 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these outstanding shares of common stock, approximately 21,500,000 shares were sold in public offerings and are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, unless purchased by our affiliates. In addition, we have the ability to issue additional shares of common stock under an active shelf registration statement, which we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 16, 2004. Up to 10,178,571 shares of our common stock are issued or issuable upon exercise of stock options that have been, or stock options, stock appreciation rights and stock awards that may be, issued pursuant to our Amended and Restated 1995 Stock Plan and our 2005 Equity Compensation Plan. The shares underlying existing stock options and possible future stock options, stock appreciation rights and stock awards have been registered pursuant to registration statements on Form S-8. The remaining shares of common stock outstanding are not registered under the Securities Act and may be resold in the public market only if registered or if there is an exemption from registration, such as Rule 144. If some or all of such shares are sold into the public market over a short period of time, the value of all publicly traded shares is likely to decline, as the market may not be able to absorb those shares at then-current market prices. Such sales may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that our management deems acceptable, or at all. Further, we may issue additional shares: • To employees, directors and consultants; • In connection with corporate alliances; • In connection with acquisitions; and • To raise capital. As of January 31, 2006, there were outstanding options, which were exercisable to purchase 5,254,960 shares of our common stock. This amount combined with the total common stock outstanding at January 31, 2006 is 47,465,553 shares of common stock. As a result of these factors, a substantial number of shares of our common stock could be sold in the public market at any time. Our Rights Agreement, the provisions of our Change in Control Severance Benefit Plan and our Change in Control Agreements with management, the anti-takeover provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws, and our right to issue preferred stock, may discourage a third party from making a take-over offer that could be beneficial to us and our stockholders and may make it difficult for stockholders to replace our Board of Directors and effect a change in our management if they desire to do so. In October 2002, we entered into a Rights Agreement with Computershare Trust Company. The Rights Agreement could discourage, delay or prevent a person or group from acquiring 15% or more of our common stock. The Rights Agreement provides that if a person acquires 15% or more of our common stock without the approval of our Board of Directors, all other stockholders will have the right to purchase securities from us at a price that is less than its fair market value, which would substantially reduce the value of our common stock 40 Table of Contents owned by the acquiring person. As a result, our Board of Directors has significant discretion to approve or disapprove a person’s efforts to acquire 15% or more of our common stock. Effective as of January 28, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Inspire adopted the Company’s Change in Control Severance Benefit Plan, or the CIC Plan, which provides severance benefits to certain employees of the Company as of the date on which a Change in Control occurs. Under the CIC Plan and the Change in Control Agreements discussed below, a Change in Control occurs upon a determination by the Board of Directors or upon certain specified events such as merger and consolidation. The CIC Plan covers any regular full-time or part-time employee, other than employees who are parties to employment agreements or who are parties to any severance plan or agreement with the Company (other than the CIC Plan) that provides for the payment of severance benefits in connection with a Change in Control. Under the CIC Plan, if a Change in Control occurs and a participant’s employment is involuntarily terminated within two years, the participant will be entitled to certain payments and benefits based on the participant’s salary range and years of service with the Company. All executive officers of the Company are parties to individual agreements with the Company regarding a Change in Control and as a result, are not covered by the CIC Plan. Each Change in Control Agreement provides that upon the executive officer’s termination of employment following a Change in Control, unless such termination is for “cause,” because of death or disability or by the executive officer without “good reason,” within 24 months following such Change in Control, the executive officer will be entitled to a lump sum payment equal to a multiple of the sum of (i) the highest annual base salary received by the executive officer in any of the three most recently completed fiscal years prior to the Change in Control and (ii) the higher of the highest annual bonus received by the executive officer in any of the three most recently completed fiscal years preceding the date of the executive officer’s termination, the three most recent completed fiscal years preceding the Change in Control, or the maximum of the bonus opportunity range for the executive officer immediately prior to the date of termination. The multiples used to determine the amount of a lump sum payment range from two to three. The Change in Control Agreements also provide for ongoing benefits, the vesting of outstanding stock options, and gross-up payments. The CIC Plan and the Change in Control Agreements would increase the acquisition costs to a purchasing company that triggers the change in control provisions. As a result, the CIC Plan and the Change in Control Agreements may delay or prevent a change in control. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions which could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring shares of our common stock or replacing members of our Board of Directors. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors can determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. As a result, our Board of Directors could make it difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Since management is appointed by the Board of Directors, any inability to effect a change in the Board of Directors may result in the entrenchment of management. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation also provides that the members of the Board will be divided into three classes. Each year the terms of approximately one-third of the directors will expire. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws include director nomination procedures and do not permit our stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders. Under the Bylaws, only our Chief Executive Officer, President, Chairman of the Board, Vice-Chairman of the Board or a majority of the Board of Directors are able to call special meetings. The staggering of directors’ terms of office, the director nomination procedures and the inability of stockholders to call a special meeting may make it difficult for stockholders to remove or replace the Board of Directors should they desire to do so. The director nomination requirements include a provision that requires stockholders give advance notice to our Secretary of any nominations for director or other business to be brought by stockholders at any stockholders’ meeting. Our directors may be removed from our Board of Directors only for cause. These provisions may delay or prevent changes of control or management, either by third parties or by stockholders seeking to change control or management. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter a “business 41 Table of Contents combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a take-over offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report on Form 10-K, including the documents that we incorporate by reference, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. Any statements about our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance are not historical facts and may be forward-looking. These statements are often, but not always, made through the use of words or phrases such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “plan,” “project,” “continuing,” “believe,” “expect,” “future” and “intend” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by any forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the risk factors listed above and those relating to product development, revenue and earnings expectations, intellectual property rights and litigation, competitive products, results of clinical trials, the need for additional research and testing, delays in manufacturing, funding and the timing and content of decisions made by regulatory authorities, including the FDA and other factors presented throughout this annual report and any other documents filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In light of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties, the results and events discussed in the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K or in any document incorporated by reference might not occur. Stockholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only of the date of this report or the date of the document incorporated by reference in this document. We are not under any obligation, and we expressly disclaim any obligation, to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or to any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 