Risk Factors. Our business, performance and financial condition are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those described in the risk factors below. These risks and uncertainties could result in a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of Wacoal Holdings, and a material decline in the trading price of our common stock and American Depositary Shares, or ADSs. 2 Table of Contents Weakness in the Japanese market would hurt our performance During fiscal year 2008, the Japanese market accounted for approximately 84% of our sales, and we expect that our sales in Japan will account for approximately an equivalent proportion of our sales in fiscal year 2009. As a result, any weakness in the Japanese market or decrease in consumer spending in Japan would have an adverse impact on our net sales and profitability. Continued difficulties faced or changes in business policies made by department stores, general merchandise stores and other general retailers in Japan would hurt our business In fiscal year 2008, a substantial majority of our total sales were made to department stores, general merchandise stores and other general retailers in Japan. We are attempting to increase our sales made through our own specialty retail store network, our catalog business and our Internet operations. However, we expect that the majority of our total sales will continue to be made through department stores, general merchandise stores and other general retailers in Japan for the foreseeable future. In recent years, many department stores, general merchandise stores and other general retailers in Japan have experienced business difficulties for a variety of reasons, including weak consumer spending, competition from convenience stores, catalog and Internet retailers and other sources. A number of department stores and general retailers have been able to improve their financial performance as a result of restructuring and other efforts. Nevertheless, the outlook for the sector remains uncertain, and poor performance could persist. Weakness in the department store, general merchandise and specialty retail sector would make it difficult to increase sales to our customers in these sectors, and the failure of one or more of our important general retail customers could materially harm our business. This would mean an immediate loss of sales to such failed retailer and the potential inability to collect some or all of our outstanding accounts receivable from it. Likewise, increased consolidation of Japanese department stores and general merchandise stores in preparation for a shrinking market due to the future anticipated decrease in the population of Japan may allow our customers to increase their bargaining power in negotiating pricing and other terms of trade, which could have a material impact on our profitability. Any change in business policy by Japan’s leading retailers would have an adverse impact on our performance, such as net sales or return on sales. As a result of any of the above factors or otherwise, any change in the business environment surrounding department stores, general merchandise stores or other general retailers in Japan would have a material impact on our business, profitability and financial condition. Our sales may decline if we are unable to effectively anticipate and respond to consumer tastes and preferences and deliver high-quality products Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively anticipate and respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and demands, and to translate market trends into products that consumers want to buy at prices that will allow us to be profitable. Customer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly and are difficult to predict. If we are unable to successfully anticipate or respond to changing styles or trends, or if we lose the support of our customers, we would be unable to achieve our sales targets and our financial results would suffer as a result. 3 Table of Contents In addition, we believe that we have established broad brand recognition in our core Japanese market for our high quality and fashionable women’s innerwear garments, and that this brand recognition is very important for our ability to target the high end of the women’s innerwear market. As a result, our brand image may suffer if we misjudge the market or sell defective merchandise causing consumers to believe that we are not able to offer attractive fashions and top-quality products. If any event were to occur that harms our reputation for producing high-quality products, our sales, operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The apparel market is highly competitive, and our share of sales or profitability may decline if we are unable to maintain our competitiveness The sale of intimate and other apparel is highly competitive, and we must compete for sales with a wide range of other apparel companies. In addition to competition from wholesalers and direct retailers in the mid- to high-end undergarment market in Japan, we must also compete against door-to-door sales, catalog and Internet sales, and new entrants to the intimate apparel market, including mass-market and specialty apparel companies, such as Fast Retailing Co., Ltd., as well as outerwear fashion manufacturers. An important factor affecting the competitive environment in our industry in recent years has been the increased penetration of lower priced garments in the market. Factors driving this trend include increased product sourcing and production in China, Vietnam and other lower-cost countries, the introduction of new manufacturing technologies, consolidation in the retail industry and a prolonged period of sluggish consumer spending, particularly in Japan. Our strategy of focusing on the higher end of the intimate apparel market may help us avoid potential negative effects of such trends on our business and performance, including possible loss of market share and reduced profitability. However, we are affected by these competitive trends and our strategy may not be successful. Additionally, we continue to be challenged by the emergence of new and competitive retail concepts in the Japanese intimate apparel industry, which target customers through catalog marketing, e-commerce and other means. Increased competition could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of sales volume and market share, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and operating results. Our specialty retail store network expansion may not lead to improved sales and profits As of March 31, 2008 we had a total of 95 specialty retail stores, including 10 factory outlet stores. Through our specialty retail stores, we hope to increase our contact with younger women and other consumers who may have less awareness of our brand and products and who may be less likely to shop for intimate apparel in the general retail stores that carry our products. In particular, we believe our ability to increase sales to younger women is key to our ability to increase our sales in the future. We entered into a strategic tie-up with Peach John Co., Ltd. (“Peach John”) in June 2006 by acquiring a 49% interest, and we acquired the remaining 51% interest in January 2008 in an effort to strengthen our specialty retail store marketing efforts aimed at younger women. 4 Table of Contents However, there are a number of risks that we must address in order for our specialty retail stores to succeed, and we may not be successful in resolving these risks, especially in light of our limited experience in operating our own stores. For example: • our specialty retail store strategy depends in large part on our ability to find attractive store locations that will provide sufficient customer traffic to drive sales; • we must compete for good store locations with other retailers pursuing similar strategies; • we may not be able to open new stores with capital investment, leasing and other costs that will allow us to earn a reasonable return; and • we must effectively recruit personnel, control inventory, market our stores and new product lines and otherwise operate our stores successfully. We are developing and marketing distinct lines of intimate apparel for our specialty retail stores under brands that do not feature the Wacoal name in order to reach the targeted customers for our stores and avoid competition with our general retail customers who carry our Wacoal brand apparel. This strategy carries risks, including the risk that our new apparel lines may not meet the fashion, function and other needs of our targeted customers. We opened our first specialty retail store in 2001. However, rapid changes in the retail market in Japan in recent years, such as declines in the number and sales of department stores, new controls on mass-merchandising stores, increases in sales at direct sales outlets and on the Internet, and declines in the prices of innerwear and the number of innerwear items sold per person, make it difficult for us to evaluate the performance of our specialty retail stores to date and to estimate whether we will achieve success in the future. Further investment is necessary in order to expand our specialty retail store business, including costs for the development of new stores and the closure of underperforming stores, and improvement costs for the specialty retail store brand. Although we are working to recover our investment through increased earnings in our specialty retail stores, if new shops fail to secure the expected sales levels, if expenses such as shop rent or personnel costs increase due to changes in the market environment, or if the specialty retail store brand fails to be popular with customers, it is possible that we may not be able to make sufficient gains to recover the investment. We may experience difficulties in successfully increasing our catalog and Internet sales We believe that our catalog and Internet sales will be increasingly important in achieving sales growth, and we are seeking to strengthen our capabilities in these channels. However, we face challenges in our catalog and Internet sales strategies. Our sales through these channels currently represent a small share of our overall sales. We face intense competition in our catalog and Internet business, and many of our competitors have more experience and have devoted more resources to these channels than we have. Additionally, our profit margins on catalog and Internet sales are typically lower than our margins on products sold through our core general retailer channel, and thus even higher sales volume through the catalog and Internet channels may not adequately replace sales through our core channels. Although our acquisition of Peach John—which has a large share of catalog sales to young people in Japan—will contribute to our efforts in this area, we believe that we need to make further system investments in order to expand our catalog and Internet sales for our group as a whole. However, we may not be successful in increasing our catalog and Internet sales sufficiently to compensate for continued flat or declining sales through our core general retailer channel, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results and may lead to impairment charges against goodwill and intangible assets recorded in connection with our acquisition of Peach John. 5 Table of Contents We are subject to inventory risks that could negatively impact our operating results Fluctuations in the demand for our products may affect the inventory we own because we usually manufacture our products well in advance of the applicable season and sometimes before fashion trends are identified or evidenced by customer purchases. In addition, the cyclical nature of the retail business requires us to carry additional inventory, especially prior to peak selling seasons when we generally build up inventory levels. We generally enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise with our suppliers well in advance of the applicable selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to sub-optimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. Therefore, if we are unable to successfully anticipate or respond to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales will suffer and we may be faced with significant amounts of unsold inventory. In response, we may be forced to reduce our product prices, increase our marketing promotions or take other steps, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we review our inventories on a regular basis for their salability and for indications of obsolescence to determine if a write-down to market value is necessary. The revaluation of inventories is based on the age of inventories, likelihood of obsolescence, actual product movements, changes in market demand, and other factors. Any write-downs of inventory resulting from such reviews may have an adverse impact on our earnings and profitability, depending on the extent of the markdowns and the amount of inventory affected. Improvement in our profitability will largely depend on our ability to reduce costs Reducing our cost of conducting business is a key element of our strategy to improve our profitability and business performance. In recent years we have taken certain steps intended to reduce our costs. For example, in order to improve the efficiency of our product distribution system, we reduced the number of our distribution centers from 18 in 1998 to 5 as of March 31, 2008. We are also taking steps to reduce our labor costs in Japan, such as closing production facilities, implementing an early retirement program and undertaking a reform of our pension plan. In addition, we are seeking to produce or otherwise source more of our apparel in China, Vietnam and other lower-cost countries, reorganizing production functions and taking other steps to reduce manufacturing costs. However, with the possibility of an increase in product material prices or costs being incurred in response to changes in the business environment, we may not be successful in materially reducing our costs, and any cost reductions that we achieve may not be large enough to compensate for difficulties that we may face in increasing our sales. A failure to reduce our costs would have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents It may be difficult for us to attract and retain highly qualified personnel The growth of our business depends significantly on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel in areas such as product planning, manufacturing technology and sales and marketing. The competition for qualified personnel in Japan is intensifying due to factors such as a gradual reduction of the working population due to demographic trends in Japan and the increased demand for labor. Our ability to attract qualified personnel depends in large part on our ability to establish and maintain a positive image in the labor market. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by seasonality Our business performance and results are affected by seasonality. Because consumer demand for innerwear and other apparel is easily influenced by the weather, large temperature fluctuations and other adverse weather conditions can have a large impact on sales of our seasonal campaign items and other seasonal products. Because we produce and acquire merchandise in advance of peak selling periods, seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels. We cannot predict future weather patterns or judge the effect that weather patterns may have on our sales and profitability. We may face increasing risks relating to conducting business internationally In fiscal year 2008, approximately 84% of our sales were made in Japan. However, we have gradually increased both the amount of goods we produce and the amount of raw materials we procure in lower-cost countries, such as China—a trend we expect to continue. In addition, we are making efforts to expand our product sales in overseas markets, including the U.S., Europe and China. These initiatives and trends may increasingly subject us to various risks relating to the conduct of our business abroad, including: • differing consumer tastes and preferences in overseas markets; • political, social and economic instability in countries where we source, manufacture or sell our products; • unexpected tax, legal or regulatory changes that may adversely impact our group; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • changes in exchange rates; • differing protection of intellectual property; and • public health or similar problems in our important overseas markets or sourcing/production centers. We may not be successful with acquisitions and other strategic transactions with third parties As part of our CAP 21 strategic plan, we intend to evaluate and pursue opportunities for acquisitions, investments and other strategic transactions that we believe will help us achieve our business objectives, including extending our product offerings in Japan and in overseas markets and strengthening our capabilities in the Internet, catalog and other marketing channels. For example, in June 2006 we entered into a business and capital alliance with Peach John, which markets innerwear, outerwear and other products of its own original design to younger women in Japan through catalog and company owned store sales, by acquiring a 49% interest. In January 2008, we acquired the remaining 51% interest and made Peach John a wholly owned subsidiary. However, Peach John operated below the initial plan following the initial capital alliance, and we recorded approximately ¥4,694 million yen in investment losses in equity in net loss of affiliated companies for fiscal year 2008. 7 Table of Contents Any acquisitions or other strategic transactions that we have pursued or may pursue in the future may involve significant risks to our company and the value of your shares. For example, your equity in us may be significantly diluted if we issue shares as consideration in any significant strategic transaction. Also, our balance of available cash will be reduced to the extent that we pay cash as consideration in one or more strategic transactions. Other potential risks that may arise from our strategic transactions include the following: • difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of an acquired business; • our inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of an acquired business; • our inability to maintain an acquired company’s relationships with customers, suppliers and other key third parties; • exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to the acquisition; • the diversion of our management’s attention from our core business; • impairment charges we would have to take if we were to conclude that there had been an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of our investment in an investee company, below its carrying value if, for example, the investee business were not generating increasing cash flows as quickly as we had expected at the time of our initial investment; and • possible impairment charges to goodwill or intangible assets. If any of these or any other material risks occur, it could have an adverse effect on a business we acquire, as well as the operations, financial condition and cash flow of our existing operations. We may face infringement of our intellectual property rights or claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others We are subject to certain risks in our business relating to intellectual property rights. In particular, we believe that our brands and related trademarks are important to our ability to create and sustain demand for our products, and to the value of our business. We may encounter trademark and related disputes in the future, and our actions to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products or the infringement of our trademarks and proprietary rights by others, which could materially harm our operations and financial condition. Additionally, other parties have asserted, and may assert in the future, that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. We cannot predict whether any such assertions or related claims will substantially harm our financial condition or results of operations. 8 Table of Contents If we fail to protect our customers’ privacy and data and maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets we may face proceedings against us and lose customer confidence We must comply with laws and regulations regarding privacy and the protection of customer information in the jurisdictions where we conduct our business and operations. These laws and regulations change from time to time, and are not consistent across jurisdictions. Violations of these requirements could arise in a number of ways, including problems with our information systems and inadvertent or intentional disclosures of information by our employees. Any failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on sales and profitability. Complying with varying privacy requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs and force us to change our business practices. Any failure by us or third parties to whom we entrust any of our operations to properly protect our customers’ privacy and data could cause customers to lose confidence in our business and products, which could result in a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. In order for us to maintain and secure an advantageous position in the market competition, we need to protect our trade secrets, such as manufacturing technology and product information. If these trade secrets are divulged by any party related to us or infringed by another company, our business or financial condition could be materially affected. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting we may not be able to produce reliable financial reports in a timely manner or prevent financial fraud Beginning with the last annual report on Form 20-F for our fiscal year ending March 31, 2007, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. As a result of evaluations conducted by management and independent external auditors for fiscal years 2007 and 2008, we did not discover any material deficiencies. However, we recognize that there are certain improvements that we should make with particular aspects of our internal controls. In addition, although we have a policy of actively responding to all of our inadequacies as a group, there is a possibility that we may not be able to successfully implement revised controls and procedures, and our revised controls and procedures may not be effective in remedying any deficiencies that are identified. Furthermore, there is a chance that new deficiencies will arise owing to changes and amendments to the standards for establishing and maintaining effective internal controls or changes that affect the business environment generally, and we may not be able to conclude in our annual reports that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 9 Table of Contents Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and important in helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports on a timely basis or prevent financial fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Our holdings of equity securities expose us to market risks We hold equity and other securities in a number of publicly traded Japanese companies. A significant drop in the value of these securities, or in the Japanese equity markets in general, could have an adverse impact on our financial results in the relevant reporting period. For example, although our balance sheet as of the end of fiscal year 2008 shows an unrealized gain on securities of ¥5,295 million, we were required to recognize a valuation loss on our equity securities holdings of ¥923 million, which was primarily the result of a determination that a decrease in the fair market value of certain equity securities was other-than-temporary. In addition, if there is a decrease in our pension assets due to adverse conditions in stock or bond markets or other factors, additional funding and accruals may be required, and such funding and accruals may adversely affect our performance and financial condition. Natural disasters and epidemics could affect our manufacturing abilities or sales results In the event of a large earthquake or other natural disaster, or the outbreak of an epidemic, that impacts our employees or our ability to continue using any of our sales or manufacturing facilities, our sales and marketing efforts would be adversely impacted and we would face the possibility of work delays or stoppages, any of which could have a negative affect on our business. In addition, any such natural disaster or epidemic would also have a large impact on consumer activity, which would have a significant impact on the sales of our products. We may become classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. holders of our stock or ADSs It is possible that we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, or for the current or any future fiscal year. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. holders of our stock or ADSs. For example, if we are a PFIC, U.S. holders of our stock or ADSs would be subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations and burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if, after applying certain look-through rules, either 50 percent or more of the gross value of our assets, based on annual quarterly averages, are passive assets, or 75 percent or more of our annual gross income is passive income. The composition of our assets will be affected by the extent to which we increase or reduce our active business assets and/or our cash, investment securities, and other passive assets, as well as any change in the valuation of our goodwill. In addition, if our acquisitions of active business assets, capital expenditures and certain other uses of cash do not match our projections, the likelihood that we are or will be classified as a PFIC may also increase. We cannot assure you that we will not be classified as a PFIC for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, or for the current or any future fiscal year. See “Item 10.E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—U.S. Holders—Passive Foreign Investment Companies”. 10 Table of Contents Yen-dollar fluctuations could cause the market price of the ADSs to decline and reduce dividend amounts payable to ADS holders as expressed in U.S. dollars Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Japanese yen price of the shares on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and, as a result, are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs. If we declare cash dividends, dividends on the shares represented by the ADSs will be paid to the depositary in Japanese yen and then converted by the depositary into U.S. dollars. Therefore, exchange rate fluctuations will also affect the dividend amounts payable to ADS holders following conversion into U.S. dollars of dividends paid in Japanese yen on the shares represented by the ADSs. As a holder of ADSs, you will have fewer rights than a shareholder has, and you must act through the depositary to exercise those rights The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take various actions, including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights, are available only to holders of record on our register of shareholders or our register of beneficial shareholders. Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the registered holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, only the depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying a holder’s ADSs as instructed by the holder and will pay to the holder the dividends and distributions collected from us. However, in the holder’s capacity as an ADS holder, that holder will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and records or exercise appraisal rights through the depositary. There are restrictions on the withdrawal of shares from our depositary receipt facility Under our ADS program, each ADS represents the right to receive five shares of our common stock. To withdraw any shares, a holder of ADSs has to surrender for cancellation American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, evidencing 200 ADSs or any integral multiple thereof. Each ADR bears a legend to that effect. As a result, holders of ADSs are unable to withdraw fractions of shares or units or receive any cash settlement from the depositary in lieu of withdrawal of fractions of shares or units. Holders of shares representing less than one unit, or 1,000 shares, may require us to repurchase those shares, whereas holders of ADSs representing less than one unit of shares are unable to exercise this right because the holders of these ADSs are unable to withdraw the underlying shares. Under our ADS program, an ADS holder cannot cause the depositary to require us to repurchase fractions of shares or units on its behalf. For a further discussion of the Japanese unit share system, see “Item 10.B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Capital Stock—Unit Share System”. 11 Table of Contents 