Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our shares of common stock involves a high degree of risk, and investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks occur, the market price of our shares of common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Additional risks that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, and our other filings made from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Company Specific Risks Our product strategy, which is targeted at markets demanding superior video and image quality, may not lead to new design wins or significantly increased revenue in a timely manner or at all, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and limit our ability to grow. We have adopted a product strategy that focuses on our core competencies in pixel processing and delivering high levels of video and image quality. With this strategy, we continue to make further investments in the development of our ImageProcessor architecture for the digital projector market, with particular focus on adding increased performance and functionality. For the advanced television market, our strategy focuses on implementing our intellectual property (“IP”) to improve the video performance of our customers’ image processors through the use of our Motion Estimation Motion Compensation (“MEMC”) co-processor integrated circuits (“ICs”). This strategy is designed to address the needs of the large-screen, high-resolution, high-quality segment of the television market. Although our product strategy is developed to take advantage of market trends, such markets may not develop or may take longer to develop than we expect. We cannot assure you that the products we are developing will adequately address the demands of our target customers, or that we will be able to produce our new products at costs that enable us to price these products competitively. Even if our product strategy is properly targeted, we cannot assure you that the products we are developing will lead to a significant increase in revenue from new design wins. To achieve design wins, we must design and deliver cost-effective, innovative and integrated semiconductors that overcome the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier and which make developers reluctant to change component sources. Additionally, potential developers may be less likely or unwilling to select our products due to concerns over our financial strength. Further, design wins do not necessarily result in developers ordering large volumes of our products. Developers can choose at any time to discontinue using our products in their designs or product development efforts. A design win is not a binding commitment by a developer to purchase our products, but rather a decision by a developer to use our products in its design process. Even if our products are chosen to be incorporated into a developer’s products, we may still not realize significant revenue from the developer if its products are not commercially successful or it chooses to qualify, or incorporate the products, of a second source. Additionally, 12 Table of Contents even if our product strategy is successful at achieving design wins and increasing our revenue, we may continue to incur operating losses due to the significant research and development costs that are required to develop competitive products for the advanced television market. We have incurred indebtedness as a result of the sale of convertible debentures. We anticipate that we must repay or refinance the debentures by May 2011. We may be unable to meet this, or other, future capital requirements. As of December 31, 2010, $15.8 million of our 1.75% convertible subordinated debentures (the “debentures”) were outstanding. Although the debentures are not due until 2024, the holders have the right to require us to purchase all or a portion of the debentures at each of the following dates: May 15, 2011, May 15, 2014 and May 15, 2019. Since the market price of our common stock is significantly below the conversion price of the debentures, we expect the holders to exercise their put option on May 15, 2011. We may not be able to refinance the debentures at terms that are as favorable as those currently contained in the debentures, or at terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. While we believe that our existing working capital, as well as funds available under our short-term line of credit will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the next twelve months, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain sufficient cash and marketable security balances to refinance or pay off the debentures when and if the put option is exercised, or that such a repurchase would not result in cash reserves too low for us to continue our business as a going concern. We may need, or could elect to seek, additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing, which we may not be able to obtain. If we issue equity securities, our shareholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. We may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility or secure future financing. In December 2010, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank to provide for a secured, working capital-based, revolving line of credit. We view this line of credit as a source of available liquidity to fund fluctuations in our working capital requirements. For example, if we experience an increase in order activity from our customers, our cash balance may decrease due to the need to purchase inventories to fulfill those orders. If this occurs, we may have to draw on this facility in order to maintain our liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, we had borrowed $3.0 million on this line of credit. This facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. We cannot assure you that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations in the future when we may need to borrow funds under this facility. In addition, this facility expires on December 21, 2012 after which time we may need to secure new financing to continue funding fluctuations in our working capital requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure new financing, or financing on terms that are acceptable to us. Dependence on a limited number of sole-source, third-party manufacturers for our products exposes us to shortages based on low manufacturing yield, errors in manufacturing, uncontrollable lead-times for manufacturing, capacity allocation, price increases with little notice, volatile inventory levels and delays in product delivery, which could result in delays in satisfying customer demand, increased costs and loss of revenue. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility and do not have the resources to manufacture our products internally. We rely on four third-party foundries to produce all of our wafers and three assembly and test vendors for completion of finished products. The wafers used in any one of our products are fabricated by only one foundry. Sole sourcing each product increases our dependence on our suppliers. We have limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields, potential errors in manufacturing and production costs. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our third-party manufacturers, so they are not obligated to supply us with products for any specific period of time, quantity or 13 Table of Contents price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Our suppliers can increase the prices of the products we purchase from them with little notice, which may cause us to increase the prices to our customers and harm our competitiveness. Because our requirements represent only a small portion of the total production capacity of our contract manufacturers, they could reallocate capacity to other customers even during periods of high demand for our products, as they have done in the past. We expect this may occur again in the future. Establishing a relationship with a new contract manufacturer in the event of delays or increased prices would be costly and burdensome. The lead time to make such a change would be at least nine months, and the estimated time for us to adapt a product’s design to a particular contract manufacturer’s process is at least four months. Additionally, we have, and may continue to choose new foundries to manufacture our wafers which may require us to modify our design methodology flow for the process technology and intellectual property cores of the new foundry. If we have to qualify a new foundry or packaging, assembly and testing supplier for any of our products or if we are unable to obtain our products from our contract manufacturers on schedule, at costs that are acceptable to us, or at all, we could incur significant delays in shipping products, our ability to satisfy customer demand could be harmed, our revenue from the sale of products may be lost or delayed and our customer relationships and ability to obtain future design wins could be damaged. We may fail to retain or attract the specialized technical and management personnel required to successfully operate our business. Our success depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key management, engineering, and sales and marketing personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Competition for skilled engineers and management personnel is intense within our industry, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining qualified individuals. The loss of, or inability to hire, key personnel could limit our ability to develop new products and adapt existing products to our customers’ requirements, and may result in lost sales and a diversion of management resources. We have experienced, and may continue to experience difficulty in hiring and retaining qualified engineering personnel in our Shanghai design center. We may be unable to successfully manage any future growth, including the integration of any future acquisition or equity investment, which could disrupt our business and severely harm our financial condition. We may determine that it is beneficial to increase our capacity to develop new and enhanced products in the future. If we fail to effectively manage internal growth, our operating expenses may increase more rapidly than our revenue, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. To manage any future growth effectively in a rapidly evolving market, we must be able to maintain and improve our operational and financial systems, train and manage our employee base and attract and retain qualified personnel with relevant experience. We must also manage multiple relationships with customers, business partners, contract manufacturers, suppliers and other third parties. We could spend substantial amounts of time and money in connection with expansion efforts for which we may not realize any profit. Our systems, procedures, controls or financial resources may not be adequate to support our operations and we may not be able to grow quickly enough to exploit potential market opportunities. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate the businesses, products, technologies or personnel of any entity that we might acquire in the future, and any failure to do so could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition. Our operation of any acquired business would involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: • problems combining the acquired operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs; • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; 14 Table of Contents • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations; and • risks associated with implementing adequate internal control, management, financial and operating reporting systems. Any future acquisitions and investments could also result in any of the following negative events, among others: • issuance of stock that dilutes current shareholders’ percentage ownership; • incurrence of debt; • assumption of liabilities; • amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets; • impairment of goodwill; • large and immediate write-offs or other charges; • loss of investment; and • decreases in cash and marketable securities that could otherwise serve as working capital. Because of our long product development process and sales cycles, we may incur substantial costs before we earn associated revenue and ultimately may not sell as many units of our products as we originally anticipated. We develop products based on anticipated market and customer requirements and incur substantial product development expenditures, which can include the payment of large up-front, third-party license fees and royalties, prior to generating associated revenue. Our work under these projects is technically challenging and places considerable demands on our limited resources, particularly on our most senior engineering talent. Because the development of our products incorporates not only our complex and evolving technology but also our customers’ specific requirements, a lengthy sales process is often required before potential customers begin the technical evaluation of our products. Our customers typically perform numerous tests and extensively evaluate our products before incorporating them into their systems. The time required for testing, evaluation and design of our products into a customer’s system can take up to nine months or more. It can take an additional nine months or longer before a customer commences volume shipments of systems that incorporate our products. We cannot assure you that the time required for the testing, evaluation and design of our products by our customers would not be significantly longer than nine months. Because of the lengthy development and sales cycles, we will experience delays between the time we incur expenditures for research and development, sales and marketing and inventory and the time we generate revenue, if any, from these expenditures. Additionally, if actual sales volumes for a particular product are substantially less than originally anticipated, we may experience large write-offs of capitalized license fees, software development tools, product masks, inventories or other capitalized or deferred product-related costs, or increased amortization of non-cancelable prepaid royalties, any of which would negatively affect our operating results. For example, our provisions for obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market write–downs were $1.6 million, $1.2 million and $1.5 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. If we are not profitable in the future, we may be unable to continue our operations. We have incurred operating losses since 2004. If and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to develop and market innovative products, accurately estimate inventory needs, contract effectively for manufacturing capacity and maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities. If we are not profitable in the future, we may be unable to continue our operations. 15 Table of Contents A significant amount of our revenue comes from a limited number of customers and distributors, exposing us to increased credit risk and subjecting our cash flow to the risk that any of our customers or distributors could decrease or cancel its orders. The display manufacturing market is highly concentrated and we are, and will continue to be, dependent on a limited number of customers and distributors for a substantial portion of our revenue. Sales to our top distributor represented 44%, 35% and 32% of revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenue attributable to our top five end customers represented 58%, 56% and 55% of revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of December 31, 2010 we had two accounts that represented 10% or more of accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2009, we had three accounts that each represented 10% or more of accounts receivable. All of the orders included in our backlog are cancelable. A reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers, or a decision by one or more of our significant customers to select products manufactured by a competitor or to use its own internally-developed semiconductors, would significantly impact our revenue. Further, the concentration of our accounts receivable with a limited number of customers increases our credit risk. The failure of these customers to pay their balances, or any customer to pay future outstanding balances, would result in an operating expense and reduce our cash flows. Our dependence on selling to distributors and integrators increases the complexity of managing our supply chain and may result in excess inventory or inventory shortages. Selling to distributors and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) that build display devices based on specifications provided by branded suppliers, also referred to as integrators, reduces our ability to forecast sales accurately and increases the complexity of our business. Our sales are made on the basis of customer purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our distributors, integrators and customers may cancel or defer purchase orders at any time but we must order wafer inventory from our contract manufacturers three to four months in advance. The estimates we use for our advance orders from contract manufacturers are based, in part, on reports of inventory levels and production forecasts from our distributors and integrators, which act as intermediaries between us and the companies using our products. This process requires us to make numerous assumptions concerning demand and to rely on the accuracy of the reports and forecasts of our distributors and integrators, each of which may introduce error into our estimates of inventory requirements. Our failure to manage this challenge could result in excess inventory or inventory shortages that could materially impact our operating results or limit the ability of companies using our semiconductors to deliver their products. For example, we overestimated demand for certain of our products which led to significant charges for obsolete inventory in 2010, 2009 and 2008. On the other hand, if we underestimate demand, we would forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. International sales account for almost all of our revenue, and if we do not successfully address the risks associated with international sales, our revenue could decrease. Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 96%, 97% and 95% of revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We anticipate that sales outside the U.S. will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in future periods. In addition, customers who incorporate our products into their products sell a substantial portion of their products outside of the U.S., and all of our products are manufactured outside of the U.S. We are, therefore, subject to many international risks, including, but not limited to: • increased difficulties in managing international distributors and manufacturers due to varying time zones, languages and business customs; • compliance with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the U.S., such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations in the currencies of Japan, the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”), Taiwan or Korea; 16 Table of Contents • reduced or limited protection of our IP, particularly in software, which is more prone to design piracy; • difficulties in collecting outstanding accounts receivable balances; • changes in tax laws and the interpretation of those laws; • difficulties regarding timing and availability of export and import licenses; • political and economic instability, particularly in the PRC, Japan, Taiwan, or Korea; • difficulties in maintaining sales representatives outside of the U.S. that are knowledgeable about our industry and products; • changes in the regulatory environment in the PRC, Japan, Taiwan and Korea that may significantly impact purchases of our products by our customers; and • outbreaks of health epidemics in the PRC or other parts of Asia. In addition, jurisdictions in which we do business could impose more or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and similar trade restrictions on our sales. Moreover, economic changes, geopolitical conflicts, territory activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic and political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. All of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. The concentration of our employees, manufacturers and customers in the PRC, Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Singapore increases our risk that a natural disaster, work stoppage or economic or political instability in the region could disrupt our operations or increase . Most of our current manufacturers and customers are located in the PRC, Japan, Korea, Taiwan or Singapore. In addition, a majority of our employees are located in this region. Disruptions from natural disasters, health epidemics and political, social and economic instability may affect the region and would have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, the economy of the PRC differs from the economies of many countries in respects such as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, self-sufficiency, rate of inflation, foreign currency flows and balance of payments position, among others. We cannot be assured that the PRC’s economic policies will be consistent or effective. Our results of operations and financial position may be harmed by changes in the PRC’s political, economic or social conditions. In addition, the risk of earthquakes in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines in the area. Common consequences of earthquakes include power outages and disruption or impairment of production capacity. Earthquakes, fire, flooding, power outages and other natural disasters in the Pacific Rim region, or political unrest, labor strikes or work stoppages in countries where our manufacturers and customers are located, would likely result in the disruption of our manufacturers’ and customers’ operations. Any disruption resulting from extraordinary events could cause significant delays in shipments of our products until we are able to shift our manufacturing from the affected contractor to another third-party vendor. There can be no assurance that alternative capacity could be obtained on favorable terms, or in a timely manner, if at all. Our operations in certain foreign and developing markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in developing markets, including Brazil, Russia, India, China and Southeast Asia. However, some developing markets have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than established markets. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar local anti-bribery laws. These laws generally prohibit companies and their agents or intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Additionally, we have employees located in offices in Japan, Taiwan, Korea and the PRC and as such, a portion of our operating expenses as well as foreign income taxes payable are denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, our operating results are affected by changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and those currencies. Any future strengthening of those currencies against the U.S. dollar could negatively impact our operating results by increasing our operating expenses as measured in U.S. dollars. We analyze our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and may engage in financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations; however, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future. We may be unable to successfully implement new products or enhancements to our current products due to our prior or any potential future restructuring actions, which could adversely affect our future sales and financial condition. We initiated restructuring plans in November 2006 and December 2008 which were completed in December 2008 and June 2009, respectively. These restructuring plans included consolidation and closure of certain offices, reductions in headcount and significant write-offs of assets. Although our restructuring plans were intended to improve efficiency and return the Company to profitability, these restructuring plans and any future restructuring actions may slow our development of new or enhanced products by limiting our research and development and engineering activities. If we are unable to successfully introduce new or enhanced products, our sales and financial condition will be adversely affected. Continued compliance with regulatory and accounting requirements will be challenging and will require significant resources. We spend a significant amount of management time and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including evolving Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations, NASDAQ Global Market rules, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management’s annual review and evaluation of internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain an effective system of internal controls, our shareholders could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, one of the covenants of the indenture governing the debentures could possibly be interpreted such that if we are late with any of our required filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), and if we fail to affect a cure within 60 days, the holders of the debentures can put the debentures back to the Company, whereby the debentures become immediately due and payable. As a result of our restructuring efforts, we have fewer employees to perform day-to-day controls, processes and activities and, additionally, certain functions have been transferred to new employees who are not as familiar with our procedures. These changes increase the risk that we will be unable to make timely filings in accordance with the Exchange Act. Any resulting default under our debentures would have a material adverse effect on our cash position and operating results. Our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited or they may expire before utilization As of December 31, 2010, we had U.S. federal tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $173.1 million, which expire at various dates from 2011 through 2027. These net operating loss carryforwards may be used to offset future taxable income and thereby reduce our U.S. federal income taxes otherwise payable. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“the Code”), imposes an annual limit on the ability of a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” to use its net operating loss carry forwards to reduce its tax liability. In the event of certain changes in our shareholder base, we may at some point in the future experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Code. Accordingly, our use of the net operating loss carryforwards may be limited by the annual limitations described in Section 382 of the Code. In addition, all or a portion of these net operating loss carryforwards may expire unutilized. 18 Table of Contents Our effective income tax rate is subject to unanticipated changes in, or different interpretations of tax rules and regulations and forecasting our effective income tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty. As a global company, we are subject to taxation by a number of taxing authorities and as such, our tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws either in the United States or abroad, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. The ultimate outcomes of any future tax audits are uncertain, and we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of them would have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. The computation of income tax expense is complex as it is based on the laws of numerous tax jurisdictions and requires significant judgment on the application of complicated rules governing accounting for tax provisions under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Income tax expense for interim quarters is based on a forecast of our global tax rate for the year, which includes forward looking financial projections, including the expectations of profit and loss by jurisdiction, and contains numerous assumptions. For these reasons, our global tax rate may be materially different than our forecast. Company Risks Related to the Semiconductor Industry and Our Markets Our highly integrated products and high-speed mixed signal products are difficult to manufacture without defects and the existence of defects could result in increased costs, delays in the availability of our products, reduced sales of products or claims against us. The manufacture of semiconductors is a complex process and it is often difficult for semiconductor foundries to produce semiconductors free of defects. Because many of our products are more highly integrated than other semiconductors and incorporate mixed signal analog and digital signal processing, multi-chip modules and embedded memory technology, they are even more difficult to produce without defects. Defective products can be caused by design or manufacturing difficulties. Therefore, identifying quality problems can occur only by analyzing and testing our semiconductors in a system after they have been manufactured. The difficulty in identifying defects is compounded because the process technology is unique to each of the multiple semiconductor foundries we contract with to manufacture our products. Despite testing by both our customers and us, errors or performance problems may be found in existing or new semiconductors. Failure to achieve defect-free products may result in increased costs and delays in the availability of our products. Additionally, customers could seek damages from us for their losses and shipments of defective products may harm our reputation with our customers. We have experienced field failures of our semiconductors in certain customer applications that required us to institute additional testing. As a result of these field failures, we have incurred warranty costs due to customers returning potentially affected products and have experienced reductions in revenues due to delays in production. Our customers have also experienced delays in receiving product shipments from us that resulted in the loss of revenue and profits. In 2010, for example, we incurred higher than expected yield losses due to defective third party IP incorporated into certain of our products, which resulted in higher direct material cost and a temporary inability to meet our customer’s requested demand. Although we were able to resolve the issue without incurring material losses and have implemented additional processes to control this type of risk, similar issues may occur again in the future. Additionally, shipments of defective products could cause us to lose customers or to incur significant replacement costs, either of which would harm our business. The development of new products is extremely complex and we may be unable to develop our new products in a timely manner and without defects, errors or bugs, or at all, which would result in a failure to obtain new design wins and/or maintain our current revenue levels. The manufacture of semiconductors is a complex process and many of our products are highly integrated and incorporate mixed analog and digital signal processing, multichip modules and embedded memory technology, 19 Table of Contents further complicating the development process. In addition to the inherent difficulty of designing complex ICs, product development delays may result from: • difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel; • difficulties with contract manufacturers; • difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; • changes to product specifications and customer requirements; • changes to market or competitive product requirements; and • unanticipated engineering complexities. Even if we are able to meet our customers’ design windows, the highly complex products we provide to our customers may contain defects, errors and bugs when they are first introduced. We have in the past and may in the future experience these defects, errors and bugs. In addition, if any of our products do contain defects, errors or bugs when first introduced, we may be unable to correct the problems at an acceptable cost or at all. Consequently, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and to attract new customers. In addition, any defects, errors or bugs could interrupt or delay sales of our new products to our customers. If we are not successful in development of new products, our financial results will be adversely affected. We use a customer-owned tooling process for manufacturing most of our products which exposes us to the possibility of poor yields and unacceptably high product costs. We build most of our products on a customer-owned tooling basis, also known in the semiconductor industry as COT, whereby we directly contract the manufacture of our products, including wafer production, assembly and test. As a result, we are subject to increased risks arising from wafer manufacturing yields and risks associated with coordination of the manufacturing, assembly and testing process. Poor product yields result in higher product costs, which could make our products less competitive if we increase our prices to compensate for our higher costs, or could result in lower gross profit margins if we do not increase our prices. Intense competition in our markets may reduce sales of our products, reduce our market share, decrease our gross profit and result in large losses. We compete with specialized and diversified electronics and semiconductor companies that offer display processors or scaling components. Some of these include Broadcom Corporation, i-Chips Technologies Inc., Integrated Device Technology, Inc., Intersil Corporation, MediaTek Inc., MStar Semiconductor, Inc., Realtek Semiconductor Corp., Renesas Electronics America, Sigma Designs, Inc., Silicon Image, Inc., STMicroelectronics N.V., Sunplus Technology Co., Ltd., Trident Microsystems, Inc., Zoran Corporation and other companies. Potential and current competitors may include diversified semiconductor manufacturers and the semiconductor divisions or affiliates of some of our customers, including Intel Corporation, LG Electronics, Inc., Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Digital Electronics America, Inc., NEC Corporation, NVIDIA Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., SANYO Electric Co., Ltd., Seiko Epson Corporation, Sharp Electronics Corporation, Sony Corporation, Texas Instruments Incorporated and Toshiba America, Inc. In addition, start-up companies may seek to compete in our markets. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources to support development and marketing efforts than we do. Some of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities. These competitors may be able to react more quickly and devote more resources to efforts that compete directly with our own. Our current or potential customers have developed, and may continue to develop, their own proprietary technologies and become our competitors. Increased competition from both competitors and our customers’ internal development efforts could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations by, for example, 20 Table of Contents increasing pressure on our profit margin or causing us to lose sales opportunities. In 2010, for example, frame rate conversion technology similar to that used in our line of MEMC co-processors continued to be integrated into the SoC products of our competitors, particularly in lower refresh rate television products. We cannot assure you that we can compete successfully against current or potential competitors. If we are not able to respond to the rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards in the markets in which we compete, or seek to compete, our products may become less desirable or obsolete. The markets in which we compete or seek to compete are subject to rapid technological change and miniaturization capabilities, frequent new product introductions, changing customer requirements for new products and features and evolving industry standards. The introduction of new technologies and emergence of new industry standards could render our products less desirable or obsolete, which could harm our business and significantly decrease our revenue. Examples of changing industry standards include the growing use of broadband to deliver video content, increased display resolution and size, faster screen refresh rates, video capability such as high definition and 3D, the proliferation of new display devices and the drive to network display devices together. Our products are incorporated into our customers’ products, which have different parts and specifications and utilize multiple protocols that allow them to be compatible with specific computers, video standards and other devices. If our customers’ products are not compatible with these protocols and standards, consumers will return, or not purchase, these products and the markets for our customers’ products could be significantly reduced. Additionally, if the technology used by our customers becomes less competitive due to cost, customer preferences or other factors relative to alternative technologies, sales of our products could decline. Our developed software may be incompatible with industry standards and challenging and costly to implement, which could slow product development or cause us to lose customers and design wins. We provide our customers with software development tools and with software that provides basic functionality for our ICs and enables enhanced connectivity of our customers’ products. Software development is a complex process and we are dependent on software development languages and operating systems from vendors that may limit our ability to design software in a timely manner. Also, as software tools and interfaces change rapidly, new software languages introduced to the market may be incompatible with our existing systems and tools, requiring significant engineering efforts to migrate our existing systems in order to be compatible with those new languages. Software development disruptions could slow our product development or cause us to lose customers and design wins. The integration of software with our products adds complexity, may extend our internal development programs and could impact our customers’ development schedules. This complexity requires increased coordination between hardware and software development schedules and increases our operating expenses without a corresponding increase in product revenue. This additional level of complexity lengthens the sales cycle and may result in customers selecting competitive products requiring less software integration. The competitiveness and viability of our products could be harmed if necessary licenses of third-party technology are not available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. We license technology from independent third parties that is incorporated into our products or product enhancements. Future products or product enhancements may require additional third-party licenses that may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. In addition, in the event of a change in control of one of our licensors, it may become difficult to maintain access to its licensed technology. If we are unable to obtain or maintain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements, we may have to obtain substitute technology with lower quality or performance standards, or at greater cost, either of which could seriously harm the competitiveness of our products. 21 Table of Contents Our limited ability to protect our IP and proprietary rights could harm our competitive position by allowing our competitors to access our proprietary technology and to introduce similar products. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology, including our semiconductor designs and software code. We provide the computer programming code for our software to customers in connection with their product development efforts, thereby increasing the risk that customers will misappropriate our proprietary software. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to help protect our proprietary technologies. We hold 138 patents and have 31 patent applications pending for protection of our significant technologies. Competitors in both the U.S. and foreign countries, many of whom have substantially greater resources than we do, may apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make and sell our products, or they may develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. We cannot assure you that the degree of protection offered by patent or trade secret laws will be sufficient. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any patents will be issued as a result of any pending applications or that any claims allowed under issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be invalidated, diluted, circumvented, challenged or licensed to others. Others may bring infringement actions against us that could be time consuming and expensive to defend. We may become subject to claims involving patents or other IP rights. IP claims could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. In addition, IP claims may be brought against customers that incorporate our products in the design of their own products. These claims, regardless of their success or merit and regardless of whether we are named as defendants in a lawsuit, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert the time and attention of management and technical personnel. Additionally, certain of our customer agreements include limited indemnification provisions for claims from third-parties related to our IP. Any IP litigation or claims also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products using technology that contains the allegedly infringing IP; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant IP, which may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us or at all; • attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing IP; or • pay damages for past infringement claims that are determined to be valid or which are arrived at in settlement of such litigation or threatened litigation. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we may incur significant additional costs or be unable to manufacture and sell our products, which could seriously harm our business. In addition, we may not be able to develop, license or acquire non-infringing technology under reasonable terms. These developments could result in an inability to compete for customers or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on manufacturers of our semiconductor products not only to respond to changes in technology and industry standards but also to continue the manufacturing processes on which we rely. To respond effectively to changes in technology and industry standards, we are dependent on our foundries to implement advanced semiconductor technologies and our operations could be adversely affected if those technologies are unavailable, delayed or inefficiently implemented. In order to increase performance and functionality and reduce the size of our products, we are continuously developing new products using advanced technologies that further miniaturize semiconductors and we are dependent on our foundries to develop and provide access to the advanced processes that enable such miniaturization. We cannot be certain that future 22 Table of Contents advanced manufacturing processes will be implemented without difficulties, delays or increased expenses. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if advanced manufacturing processes are unavailable to us, substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. Creating the capacity for new technological changes may cause manufacturers to discontinue older manufacturing processes in favor of newer ones. We must then either retire the affected part or develop a new version of the part that can be manufactured with a newer process. In the event that a manufacturing process is discontinued, our current suppliers may be unwilling or unable to manufacture our current products. We may not be able to place last time buy orders for the old technology or find alternate manufacturers of our products to allow us to continue to produce products with the older technology while we expend the significant costs for research and development and time to migrate to new, more advanced processes. For instance, we also utilize 0.18um and 0.15um standard logic processes, which may only be available for the next five to seven years. Additionally, a portion of our products use 0.11um technology for memory die, which is being phased out in favor of 65nm memory die to increase yields and decrease cost. Because of this transition, our customers must re-qualify the affected parts. Shortages of materials used in the manufacturing of our products and other key components of our customers’ products may increase our costs, impair our ability to ship our products on time and delay our ability to sell our products. From time to time, shortages of components and materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products and our customers’ products may occur. Such critical components and materials include semiconductor wafers and packages, double data rate memory die, display components, analog-to-digital converters, digital receivers, video decoders and voltage regulators. If material shortages occur, we may incur additional costs or be unable to ship our products to our customers in a timely fashion, both of which could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our products are characterized by average selling prices that decline over relatively short periods of time, which will negatively affect our financial results unless we are able to reduce our product costs or introduce new products with higher average selling prices. Average selling prices for our products decline over relatively short periods of time, while many of our product costs are fixed. When our average selling prices decline, our gross profit declines unless we are able to sell more units or reduce the cost to manufacture our products. We have experienced declines in our average selling prices and expect that we will continue to experience them in the future, although we cannot predict when they may occur or how severe they will be. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs, adding new features to our existing products or developing new or enhanced products in a timely manner with higher selling prices or gross profits. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may lead to significant variances in the demand for our products and could harm our operations. In the past, the semiconductor industry has been characterized by significant downturns and wide fluctuations in supply and demand. Also, the industry has experienced significant fluctuations in anticipation of changes in general economic conditions, including economic conditions in Asia, Europe and North America. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has also led to significant variances in product demand and production capacity. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, periodic fluctuations in our financial results because of changes in industry-wide conditions. Environmental laws and regulations have caused us to incur, and may again cause us to incur, significant expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations, and we may be assessed considerable penalties for noncompliance. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could require us to incur substantial expenses which could harm our 23 Table of Contents business, financial condition and results of operations. We have worked, and will continue to work, with our suppliers and customers to ensure that our products are compliant with enacted laws and regulations. Failure by us or our contract manufacturers to comply with such legislation could result in customers refusing to purchase our products and could subject us to significant monetary penalties in connection with a violation, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over time, imposing even greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of our inability to obtain permits, human error, equipment failure or other causes. Other Risks The current adverse global economic environment and volatility in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Slow economic activity, increased unemployment, decreased business and consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns have contributed to and continue to contribute to a challenging economic environment. This environment has led to reduced spending in the markets in which we compete and made it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Furthermore, the constraints in the capital and credit markets may limit the ability of our customers to meet their liquidity needs, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us and to reduce their demand for our products, adversely impacting our results of operations and cash flows. Future sales or other dilution of our equity could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could negatively impact the price of our common stock. We have a number of institutional shareholders that own significant blocks of our common stock. If one or more of these shareholders were to sell large portions of their holdings in a relatively short time, for liquidity or other reasons, the prevailing market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. In addition, the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or issuances of securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock or other equity-linked securities, including preferred stock or warrants, will dilute the ownership interest of our common shareholders and could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We may need to seek additional capital. If this additional financing is obtained through the issuance of equity securities, debt convertible into equity or options or warrants to acquire equity securities, our existing shareholders could experience significant dilution upon the issuance, conversion or exercise of such securities. The price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate substantially. Our stock price and the stock prices of technology companies similar to Pixelworks have been highly volatile. The price of our common stock may decline and the value of your investment may be reduced regardless of our performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general economic and political conditions, including recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Additional factors that could negatively impact our stock price include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; 24 Table of Contents • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations, design wins, contracts, standards, acquisitions or divestitures; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • inconsistent trading volume levels of our common stock; and • changes in market valuations of other technology companies. Any inability or perceived inability of investors to realize a gain on an investment in our common stock could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by potentially limiting our ability to retain our customers, to attract and retain qualified employees and to raise capital. We may be unable to maintain compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rules which could cause our common stock to be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. This could result in the lack of a market for our common stock, cause a decrease in the value of our common stock, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On June 4, 2008, we effected a one-for-three reverse split of our common stock. We effected the reverse split to regain compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, particularly the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Global Market. Though the per share price of our common stock was $3.43 on February 28, 2011, the price has fluctuated significantly and was below $1.00 as recently as May 6, 2009. We cannot guarantee that it will remain at or above $1.00 per share and if the price again drops below $1.00 per share, the stock could become subject to delisting again, and we may seek shareholder approval for an additional reverse split. A second reverse split could produce adverse effects and may not result in a long-term or permanent increase in the price of our common stock. In addition to the minimum $1.00 per share requirement, NASDAQ Global Market also requires satisfaction of one of the following in addition to certain other requirements: (i) a minimum of $50.0 million in total asset value and $50.0 million in revenues (in the latest fiscal year or in two of the last three fiscal years), (ii) a minimum of $50.0 million in market value of listed securities, or (iii) or a minimum of $10.0 million in stockholders’ equity. At December 31, 2010, although not required because our shareholders’ equity was in excess of $10.0 million, we achieved a $50.0 million total asset value by making a non-formula advance on our short-term line of credit. As recently as December 31, 2008, however, our shareholders’ equity was below $10.0 million and in the future we may be unable to meet these continued listing requirements and our stock could become subject to delisting. If our common stock is delisted, trading of the stock will most likely take place on an over-the-counter market established for unlisted securities. An investor is likely to find it less convenient to sell, or to obtain accurate quotations in seeking to buy, our common stock on an over-the-counter market, and many investors may not buy or sell our common stock due to difficulty in accessing over-the-counter markets, or due to policies preventing them from trading in securities not listed on a national exchange or other reasons. For these reasons and others, delisting would adversely affect the liquidity, trading volume and price of our common stock, causing the value of an investment in us to decrease and having an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by limiting our ability to attract and retain qualified executives and employees and limiting our ability to raise capital. The anti-takeover provisions of Oregon law and in our articles of incorporation could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock by preventing a sale or takeover of us at a price or prices favorable to the holders of our common stock. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Oregon law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of us, making a merger or acquisition of us less desirable to a potential acquirer or preventing a change in our management, even if our shareholders consider the merger, acquisition or change in management favorable or if doing so would benefit our shareholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The following are examples of such provisions in our articles of incorporation or bylaws: 25 Table of Contents • our board of directors is authorized, without prior shareholder approval, to change the size of the board (our articles of incorporation provide that if the board is increased to eight or more members, the board will be divided into three classes serving staggered terms, which would make it more difficult for a group of shareholders to quickly change the composition of our board); • our board of directors is authorized, without prior shareholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us or to effect a change of control, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock; • members of our board of directors can be removed only for cause and at a meeting of shareholders called expressly for that purpose, by the vote of 75 percent of the votes then entitled to be cast for the election of directors; and • our board of directors may alter our bylaws without obtaining shareholder approval; and shareholders are required to provide advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon at a shareholder meeting. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 