Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Uncertain Economic Environment Spending on IT consulting services is largely discretionary and will decline during economic downturns or periods of economic uncertainty when the Company’s clients are operating under reduced budgets, including during the current period. A significant portion of the Company’s revenues is derived from sales to customers in the financial services, pharmaceutical and manufacturing/automotive industries. Many of the Company’s major customers in the financial services industry came under significant financial pressure as a result of the recent economic crisis. If the period of economic uncertainty continues or if the economic environment worsens it could further erode the Company’s ability to sell future projects. Reliance on a Small Number of Customers We rely on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the top three customers accounted for 76% of our revenue. During the year ended December 31, 2010, our top three customers accounted for 64% of our revenue. If we were to lose any of these customers, we cannot assure you that they could be replaced quickly or at all. Our loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse affect on our revenues and results of operations. Volatility of Stock Price The Company’s stock was traded on 130 days during 2011 and may be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to variations in quarterly results of operations and other factors, including financings, technological innovations and general economic or market conditions. Stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume trading volatility in the recent past. This volatility had a substantial effect on the market price of many technology companies that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. This volatility may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. Rapid Industry Change The Company’s business is subject to rapid technological change and is dependent on new solutions. The Company’s success will depend in part on its ability to develop information technology solutions to meet client expectations, and offer services and solutions that keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Required. Item 