ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors that Could Affect Operating Results Statements included in Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this document that do not relate to present or historical conditions are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of that term in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and in Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Additional oral or written forward-looking statements may be made by the Company from time to time, and such statements may be included in documents that are filed with the SEC. Such forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainties that could cause results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “believes,” “forecasts,” “intends,” “possible,” “expects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” or “plans” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Company cautions readers that results predicted by forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those relating to the Company’s future business prospects, revenues, working capital, liquidity, capital needs, interest costs, and income are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements, due to various risks and factors, including those identified below, those identified elsewhere in this report or those identified from time to time in the Company’s filings with the SEC. Among the important factors on which such statements are based are assumptions concerning the uncertain state of the U.S. economy, including its impact on the Company’s customers, the anticipated growth of the information technology industry and the continued needs of current and prospective customers for the Company’s services. 4 Table of Contents Operating Losses The Company has incurred operating losses in 2009, 2008 and 2007. In the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company had an operating loss of ($2,059,000). In the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company had an operating loss of ($2,953,000), which included a goodwill impairment (non-cash) charge of $1,141,000. In the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company had an operating loss of ($1,142,000). There is no guarantee that the Company can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. The Company’s recent operating results and financial condition could impact the Company’s ability to attract new clients and obtain significant project revenue. If revenues do not increase, or if operating expenses exceed expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, the Company will continue to experience operating losses and net losses and the Company’s results of operations and financial condition (including, potentially, its ability to continue as a going concern) will be materially and adversely affected. Going Concern and Capital Requirements The Company’s financial statements have been presented on the basis that it is a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. At December 31, 2009, the Company had $1,354,989 of cash and cash equivalents on hand, which included a $1.0 million cash infusion resulting from a securities purchase agreement between the Company and Helios and Matheson Parent, as compared to $912,272 of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2008. The Company has a line of credit up to $1.0 million with Keltic Financial Partners, LP II (“Keltic”) based on the Company’s eligible accounts receivable balances which is subject to certain financial covenants that shall apply only if the Company has any outstanding obligations to Keltic including borrowing under the facility. The combination of an outstanding balance at the end of any fiscal quarter and earnings before taxes, depreciation and amortization of less than $25,000 for that quarter will cause a default under the Loan Agreement and may require the Company to obtain a waiver from Keltic or limit the Company’s access to the line of credit. The Keltic line of credit, which was set to expire on December 31, 2009, has been extended through December 31, 2010 with no material changes in terms and conditions. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company reported a net loss of ($2,076,000). For the year ended December 31, 2008 the Company reported a net loss of ($2,924,000), which included a goodwill impairment (non-cash) charge of $1,141,000. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company reported a net loss of ($838,000). Beyond December 31, 2010, there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to renew or replace its current financing upon expiration on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Based upon the Company’s reduced liquidity and net losses, the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern is dependent on the Company achieving profitable operations and or obtaining additional sources of financing within the current fiscal year. The Company may require additional financing in the future to continue to implement its product and services development, marketing and other corporate programs. If the Company is able to obtain additional debt financing, the terms of such financing could contain restrictive covenants that might negatively affect its shares of common stock, such as limitations on payments of dividends, and could reduce earnings due to interest expenses. Any further issuance of equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the holders of the Company’s shares of common stock. The Company’s business, operating results and financial condition (including, potentially, its ability to continue as a going concern) may be materially harmed if the Company cannot obtain additional financing. Uncertain Economic Environment Spending on IT consulting services is largely discretionary and will decline during economic downturns or periods of economic uncertainty when the Company’s clients are operating under reduced budgets, including during the current period. A significant portion of the Company’s revenues is derived from sales to customers in the financial services, pharmaceutical and manufacturing/automotive industries. Many of the Company’s major customers in the financial services industry came under significant financial pressure as a result of the recent economic crisis. If the period of economic uncertainty continues or if the economic environment worsens it could further erode the Company’s ability to sell future projects. 5 Table of Contents Dependence on Limited Number of Clients The Company derives a significant portion of its revenues from a relatively limited number of clients primarily located in the New York/New Jersey metropolitan area of the United States. The recent economic crisis particularly affected this region and ongoing economic uncertainty could continue to have an adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company’s clients located there, which in turn could adversely impact the Company’s ability to collect its accounts receivable as well as its business and future growth. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company had two customers which accounted for approximately 23% and 10% of revenues, respectively, and during 2010, the Company expects that a significant portion of its revenues will continue to come from these clients. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company had two customers which accounted for approximately 18% and 12% of revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company had three customers which accounted for approximately 23%, 18% and 11% of revenues, respectively. Besides these customers, no other customer represented greater than 10% of the Company’s revenues. In any given year, the Company’s ten most significant customers may vary based upon specific projects for those clients during that year. There can be no assurance that the Company’s significant clients will continue to engage it for additional projects or do so at the same revenue levels. Clients engage the Company on an assignment-by-assignment basis, and a client can generally terminate an assignment at any time without penalties. The loss of any significant customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. A failure of the Company to develop relationships with new customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Volatility of Stock Price The Company’s common stock is extremely illiquid, thinly traded and may be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to variations in quarterly results of operations and other factors, including financings, technological innovations and general economic or market conditions. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume trading volatility in the recent past. This volatility had a substantial effect on the market price of many technology companies that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. This volatility may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. Additionally, the Company’s stock is infrequently traded on the NASDAQ Capital MarketCM where it is listed, which further increases the stock’s volatility, and there can be no assurance that a trading market for the common stock will be sustained. NASDAQ Listing The NASDAQ Capital Market’s continued listing requirements include requirements that a company maintain a minimum shareholder’s equity of $2,500,000, a minimum bid price of $1 and that the market value of its publicly held shares (the market value of its shares not held by officers, directors or beneficial owners of more than 10% of the company’s total shares outstanding) be at least $1,000,000. On August 12, 2009, the Company received a letter from NASDAQ stating that, based on the Company’s reported shareholders’ equity of $2,475,060 as of June 30, 2009, the Company no longer complied with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(b)(1) which requires a minimum shareholders’ equity of $2,500,000 and that it did not meet the alternatives of market value of listed securities or net income from continuing operations. NASDAQ granted the Company until November 25, 2009 to regain compliance with this listing requirement. The Company’s Compliance Plan, which was submitted to and approved by NASDAQ, included an equity financing transaction with Helios and Matheson Parent which was completed on November 20, 2009. As a result of the equity financing transaction, the Company regained compliance with NASDAQ’s minimum required shareholder’s equity requirement. On September 15, 2009, the Company received two additional letters from NASDAQ, one stating that based on the closing bid price of the Company’s listed securities for the preceding 30 consecutive business days, a deficiency existed with regard to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), which requires a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share, and the other stating that for the preceding 30 consecutive trading days the Company’s common stock had not maintained a minimum market value of publicly held shares of $1,000,000 as required by NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(5). The Company had 180 calendar days from September 15, 2009 to regain compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement and 90 calendar days from September 15, 2009 to regain compliance with the $1,000,000 minimum market value of publicly held shares requirement. On November 16, 2009, the Company received a letter from NASDAQ stating that since the time NASDAQ contacted the Company on September 15, 2009, the Company regained compliance with both the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement and the minimum market value of publicly held shares requirement of $1,000,000. On February 1, 2010, the Company received a letter from NASDAQ stating that, based on the closing bid price of the Company’s listed securities for the preceding 30 consecutive business days, a deficiency exists with regard to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), which requires a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. The Company has a grace period of 180 calendar days in which to regain compliance. In order to regain compliance with this requirement, the bid price of the Company’s common stock must close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. Alternatively, the Company may be eligible for an additional 180-day grace period if it meets the initial listing standards, with the exception of bid price, for The NASDAQ Capital Market. 6 Table of Contents On March 9, 2010, the Company received an additional letter from NASDAQ stating that for the preceding 30 consecutive trading days the Company’s common stock had not maintained a minimum market value of publicly held shares of $1,000,000 as required by NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(5). The Company has a grace period of 180 calendar days in which to regain compliance. In order to regain compliance with this requirement, the Company’s market value of publicly held shares must close at $1,000,000 or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. On March 23, 2010, the Company received a letter from NASDAQ stating that since the time NASDAQ contacted the Company on March 9, 2010, the Company regained compliance with both the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement and the minimum market value of publicly held shares requirement of $1,000,000. At the close of business on March 26, 2010, the bid price for a share of the Company’s stock was $1.47, and the Company believes the value of its publicly held shares was approximately $1,386,936 based upon the public filings of our officers, directors and beneficial owners. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s shareholder’s equity was $2,609,499. If the Company’s common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, the market liquidity of the Company’s common stock will likely be significantly limited, which would reduce stockholders’ ability to sell the Company’ common stock. Additionally any such delisting could harm the Company’s ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on acceptable terms, if at all, and may result in the loss of confidence in the Company’s financial stability by suppliers, customers and employees. In addition, a delisting would likely increase the price volatility of the Company’s shares of common stock and have a material adverse impact on the price of the Company’s shares of common stock. Project Risk The Company’s projects entail significant risks. Many of its engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of its clients’ businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. The Company’s failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations in the performance of the Company’s services could result in a material adverse change to the client’s operations and therefore could give rise to claims against the Company or damage its reputation, adversely affecting its business, results of operations and financial condition. Billing Margins The Company’s ability to maintain billing margins is uncertain. The Company derives revenues primarily from the hourly billing of consultants’ services and, to a lesser extent, from fixed-price projects. Its most significant cost is project personnel cost, which consists of consultant salaries and benefits as well as costs of subcontractors. Thus, the Company’s financial performance is primarily based upon billing margin (billable hourly rate less the consultant’s hourly cost) and personnel utilization rates (number of days worked by a consultant during a semi-monthly billing cycle divided by the number of billing days in that cycle). There can be no assurance that the Company’s cost containment and workforce rationalization efforts will provide positive results in the future. Additionally, during the past three years, the Company’s clients have been adverse to increases in any costs of the Company’s services and have employed Vendor Management Organizations as a means of monitoring and controlling these costs which have negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, the Company’s margins. 7 Table of Contents Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results The Company’s quarterly results of operations are variable. Variations in revenues and results of operations occur from time to time as a result of a number of factors including the size and significance of client engagements, consultant hiring and utilization rates, the timing of corporate expenditures and the number of business days in a quarter. Initiation or completion of client engagements can cause significant variations in results of operations from quarter to quarter. In addition, the Company’s engagements generally are terminable by the client at any time without penalties. Although the number of consultants can be adjusted to correspond to the number of active engagements, the Company must maintain a sufficient number of senior consultants to oversee existing client engagements and to assist its sales force in securing new client assignments. An unexpected reduction in the number of assignments could result in excess capacity of consultants and increased selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues. The Company has also experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in the quarterly results of its software sales as a result of the variable size and timing of individual license transactions, competitive conditions in the industry, changes in customer budgets, and the timing of the introduction of new products or product enhancements. In the event that the Company’s results of operations for any period are below the expectation of investors, the market price of the Company’s shares of common stock could be adversely affected. On March 15, 2010, the Company received notice from Cogito, a software company whose products the Company markets, of Cogito’s intent to terminate its agreement with the Company effective thirty days from date of notice. Software revenue for 2009 was approximately $1.8 million. If the Cogito Agreement is terminated, the Company expects that future software product revenues, which the Company views as supplemental to its core consulting business, will be significantly reduced in the short term. However, the Company hopes to grow revenue from new software partners with whom it has recently entered into business relationships. Competition The market for IT consulting services is intensely competitive, is affected by rapid technological advances and includes a large number of competitors. The Company’s competitors include the current or former consulting divisions of the “Big Four” accounting firms, major offshore outsourcing companies, systems consulting and implementation firms, application software development firms, management consulting firms, divisions of large hardware and software companies, and niche providers of IT services. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company. In addition, the Company competes with its clients’ internal resources, particularly when these resources represent an existing cost to the client. Competition imposes significant pricing pressures on the Company. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors in the IT services market include breadth of services offered, industry and technology knowledge, expertise, cost competitiveness, quality of service and responsiveness to client needs. A critical component of the Company’s ability to compete in the marketplace is its ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain skilled professionals. Rapid Industry Change The Company’s business is subject to rapid technological change and is dependent on new solutions. The Company’s success will depend in part on its ability to develop information technology solutions to meet client expectations, and offer services and solutions that keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. The Company cannot assure investors that it will be successful in adequately addressing information technology developments on a timely basis or that, if addressed, the Company will be successful in the marketplace. The Company also cannot assure investors that products or technologies developed by others will not render its services uncompetitive or obsolete. The Company’s failure to address these developments could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. Intellectual Property Rights The Company relies upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secret, copyright and trademark laws to protect its proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom the Company licenses intellectual property, but there can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that the Company will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce its intellectual property rights. In addition, the Company is subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any such claims could require the Company to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property or acquire licenses to the intellectual property which is the subject of the asserted infringement. Effective as of January 30, 2007, the Company changed its name from The A Consulting Team, Inc. to Helios & Matheson North America Inc. The name change reflects the Company’s desire to develop long term, mutually beneficial opportunities both in the United States and globally through its association with Helios and Matheson Parent, an information technology services organization with corporate headquarters in Chennai, India and the owner of approximately 69% of the Company’s outstanding common stock. Helios and Matheson Parent has granted the Company a non-exclusive right to use the name “Helios & Matheson” and related trademarks, service names and service marks. Helios and Matheson Parent has the right to terminate the Company’s right to use such name and related trademarks and service marks upon each of the following events: (i) the Company duly and properly effectuates a change of the Company’s corporate name which change is not consented to or approved by Helios and Matheson Parent; (ii) the Company consummates a business combination or merger, pursuant to which the Company is not the surviving corporation, or the Company consummates a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent or approval of Helios and Matheson Parent and (iii) the Company files, or becomes a debtor subject to, a bankruptcy proceeding which proceeding or filing was not commenced by Helios and Matheson Parent or consented to by Helios and Matheson Parent. The Company could be materially adversely affected if Helios and Matheson Parent terminated the Company’s rights to use such name and the related trademarks and service marks as the Company would be forced to change its name, commence marketing under a new name and would not be able to enjoy the benefits of the Company’s marketing efforts under the name “Helios & Matheson”. Additionally, the Company is reliant upon Helios and Matheson Parent to protect the Helios & Matheson’s trademarks, trade names, service marks and service names. 8 Table of Contents The Company’s business includes the development of custom software applications in connection with specific client engagements. All ownership rights to software developed by the Company in connection with a client engagement are typically assigned to the client, such that the Company is not able to benefit commercially from additional or alternative uses of such applications. In limited situations, the Company may retain ownership or obtain a license from its client, which permits the Company or a third party to market the software for the joint benefit of the client and the Company or for the sole benefit of the Company. NASDAQ Controlled Company Helios and Matheson Parent holds approximately 69% of the voting power of the Company, and the Board of Directors has determined that the Company is a “controlled company” for the purposes of NASDAQ listing requirements. Therefore, the Company is not subject to NASDAQ listing requirements that, among other things, would otherwise require that the Board of Directors have a majority of independent directors and that the compensation of officers and the nomination of directors be determined in accordance with specific rules, generally requiring determinations by committees comprised solely of independent directors or in meetings at which only the independent directors are present. Accordingly, the stockholders of the Company will not have the same protection afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ governance requirements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 