Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The continued uncertain economic environment may adversely affect our business. Spending on IT consulting and analytics services is largely discretionary and will decline during economic downturns or periods of economic uncertainty when the Company’s clients are operating under reduced budgets, including during the current period. A significant portion of the Company’s revenues are derived from sales to clients in the financial services, banking and insurance industries. Many of the Company’s major clients in the financial services industry came under significant financial pressure as a result of the recent economic crisis. If the period of economic uncertainty continues or if the economic environment worsens it could further erode the Company’s ability to sell future projects. We rely on a concentrated client base for much of our revenue. We rely on a small number of clients for a significant portion of our revenue. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, our top three clients accounted for 88% of our revenue. If we were to lose any of these clients, we cannot assure you that they could be replaced quickly or at all. Our loss of any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our stock price is volatile. The Company’s stock was traded on 197 days during 2013 and may be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to variations in quarterly results of operations and other factors, including financings, technological innovations and general economic or market conditions. For example, the closing price of our common stock during 2013 was as low as $2.88 and as high as $8.29. Stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume trading volatility in the recent past. This volatility had a substantial effect on the market price of many technology companies that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. This volatility may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. Our industry is subject to rapid change. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service introductions, evolving distribution channels and changing customer demands. We must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually improving our products as well as introducing new products and services to address user demands. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop information technology solutions to meet client expectations, and offer services and solutions that keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. If we are unable to keep up with technological changes and changes in industry standards, our business, reputation and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 4 Our industry is intensely competitive. The market for IT consulting and analytic services is intensely competitive, affected by rapid technological advances and includes a large number of competitors. Our competitors include the current or former consulting divisions of the “Big Four” accounting firms, major offshore outsourcing companies, systems consulting and implementation firms, application software development firms, management consulting firms, divisions of large hardware and software companies, and niche providers of IT services. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. Competition imposes significant pricing pressures on us. If we are unable to compete successfully in our markets, our business and financial results will be materially adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secret, copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom we license intellectual property, but there can be no assurance that the steps we take in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Infringement on the proprietary rights of others could put us at a competitive disadvantage and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly. Third parties may claim that we violated their intellectual property rights. To the extent of a violation of a third party’s intellectual property rights, we may be prevented from operating our business as planned, and may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing method if possible, to accomplish our objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel from our day-to-day operations. If such claims are successful, they could result in costly judgments or settlements. While we recently declared and paid a dividend of $0.08 per share, we have no immediate plans to continue to pay dividends in the future. On February 2, 2014, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.08 per share to shareholders of record on February 18, 2014. However, we have no immediate plans to continue to pay dividends in the future. Currently, we plan to reinvest all of our earnings in order to market our products and to cover operating costs. We cannot assure you that we would, at any time in the future, again generate sufficient surplus cash that would be available for distribution to the holders of our common stock as a dividend. Therefore, at this time you should not expect to receive future cash dividends on our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Required. 