Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS An investment in the shares of our common stock involves a substantial risk of loss. You should carefully read this entire report and should give particular attention to the following risk factors. You should recognize that other significant risks may arise in the future, which we cannot foresee at this time. Also, the risks that we now foresee might affect us to a greater or different degree than expected. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by any forward-looking statements in this document. These factors include, without limitation, the risk factors listed below and other factors presented throughout this document and any other documents filed by us with the SEC. Risks Related to Product Development If the FDA does not conclude that our product candidates meet statutory requirements for safety and efficacy, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for marketing in the United States, and if foreign governments do not conclude that our product candidates meet their requirements for marketing, we will be unable to commercialize those product candidates in those foreign markets. To achieve profitable operations, we must, alone or with others, successfully identify, develop, introduce and market products. We have not received marketing approval for any of our product candidates, although we are co-promoting two products with Allergan. We have one product candidate, Prolacria, for which we have received two approvable letters from the FDA. In addition, an NDA has been filed with respect to AzaSite. There is no guarantee that the FDA will approve either AzaSite or Prolacria and allow the commercialization of either product in the United States. It may be necessary to undertake additional Phase 3 clinical trials in support of the NDA for AzaSite and/or Prolacria and there can be no guarantee that any such additional clinical trials would be successful or that the FDA would approve AzaSite and/or Prolacria even if such additional clinical trials were successful. If additional Phase 3 clinical trials for AzaSite are required by the FDA, InSite Vision may decide not to conduct those clinical trials and if additional Phase 3 clinical trials for Prolacria are required by the FDA, we may decide not to conduct those clinical trials, both of which would result in the inability to obtain FDA approval of either product candidate. Even if FDA approval is received for AzaSite or Prolacria, we (and, in the case of Prolacria, Allergan) may not be able to successfully commercialize the products in the United States. We have licensed bilastine, an oral antihistamine compound for the treatment or prevention of allergic rhinitis, from FAES, for development and commercialization in the United States and Canada. FAES is currently conducting a thorough QT/QTc clinical trial in the United States of an oral formulation of bilastine to confirm the cardiac safety profile of this product candidate. If this QT/QTc clinical trial is not successful, it is unlikely that we will be able to commercialize bilastine in the United States or Canada. Although FAES previously conducted two large, potentially pivotal Phase 3 seasonal allergic rhinitis clinical trials of an oral tablet formulation of bilastine outside the United States, other than the ongoing QT/QTc clinical trial, no other clinical trials have been conducted in the United States. We have not yet met with the FDA to discuss this product candidate and it may be necessary to conduct an additional Phase 3 clinical trial in the United States in support of an NDA filing. There can be no guarantee that the QT/QTc clinical trial or any additional clinical trial will be successful, or that the FDA would approve bilastine even if such clinical trials are successful. Even if we do receive FDA approval for bilastine, we may not be able to successfully commercialize bilastine in the United States and Canada. In addition to AzaSite, Prolacria and the oral tablet formulation of bilastine, we have other product candidates in clinical and preclinical development. A substantial amount of work will be required to advance these product candidates through clinical testing and ultimately to commercial approval. We will have to conduct significant additional development activities, non-clinical and clinical tests and obtain regulatory approval before our product candidates can be commercialized. Product candidates that may appear to be promising at early 24 Table of Contents stages of development may not successfully reach the market for a number of reasons. The results of preclinical and clinical testing of our product candidates under development may not necessarily indicate the results that will be obtained from later or more extensive testing. Accordingly, some or all of our preclinical candidates may not advance to clinical development. Additionally, companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier clinical trials. Our ongoing clinical trials might be delayed or halted for various reasons, including: • The drug is not effective or physicians think that the drug is not effective; • The measure of efficacy of the drug is not statistically significant compared to placebo; • Patients experience severe side effects or serious adverse events during treatment; • Patients die during the clinical trial because their disease is too advanced or because they experience medical problems that may or may not relate to the drug being studied; • Patients do not enroll in the clinical trials at the rate we expect; • We decide to modify the drug during testing; • Clinical investigator conduct or misconduct leads the FDA to stop the clinical trial or to take other action that could delay or impede progress of a clinical trial; • Our commercial partners, or future commercial partners, delay, amend or change our development plan or strategy; • We allocate our limited financial and other resources to other clinical and preclinical programs; and • Weather events, natural disasters, malicious activities or other unforeseen events occur. The introduction of our products in foreign markets will subject us to foreign regulatory clearances, the receipt of which may be unpredictable, uncertain and may impose substantial additional costs and burdens which we or our partners in such foreign markets may be unwilling or unable to fund. As with the FDA, foreign regulatory authorities must be satisfied that adequate evidence of safety and efficacy of the product has been presented before marketing authorization is granted. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA marketing approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by other regulatory authorities. Since some of our clinical candidates utilize new or different mechanisms of action and in some cases there may be no regulatory precedents, conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approval may be difficult, expensive and prolonged, which would delay any commercialization of our products. To complete successful clinical trials, our product candidates must demonstrate safety and provide substantial evidence of efficacy, which the FDA evaluates based on the statistical significance of a product candidate meeting predetermined clinical endpoints. The design of clinical trials to establish meaningful endpoints is done in collaboration with the FDA prior to the commencement of clinical trials. We establish these endpoints based on guidance from the FDA, including FDA guidance documents applicable to establishing the efficacy, safety and tolerability measures required for approval of products. However, since some of our product candidates utilize new or different mechanisms of action, the FDA may not have established guidelines for the design of our clinical trials and may take longer than average to consider our product candidates for approval. The FDA could change its view on clinical trial design and establishment of appropriate standards for efficacy, safety and tolerability and require a change in clinical trial design, additional data or even further clinical trials before granting approval of our product candidates. We could encounter delays and increased expenses in our clinical trials if the FDA concludes that the endpoints established for a clinical trial do not adequately predict a clinical benefit. We have one product candidate for the treatment of dry eye disease, Prolacria, for which we have received two approvable letters from the FDA. However, the FDA has not published guidelines on the approval of a 25 Table of Contents product for the treatment of dry eye disease. Furthermore, to date, only one prescription product, Restasis, has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of dry eye disease, and such product has a different mechanism of action from Prolacria. It may be necessary to undertake additional Phase 3 clinical trials in support of our NDA for Prolacria and there can be no guarantee that any such additional clinical trials would be successful or that the FDA would approve Prolacria even if such additional clinical trials were successful. We are developing denufosol tetrasodium as an inhaled product designed to enhance the lung’s innate mucosal hydration and mucociliary clearance mechanisms by mitigating the underlying ion transport defect in the airways of patients with cystic fibrosis. The FDA has not published guidance on the drug approval process associated with such a product candidate. Furthermore, we are not aware of any FDA approved product that mitigates the underlying ion transport defect in the airways of patients with cystic fibrosis. We cannot predict or guarantee the outcome or timing of our Phase 3 program for denufosol for cystic fibrosis. A significant amount of work will be required to advance denufosol through clinical testing, including satisfactory completion of additional clinical trials, toxicology and carcinogenicity studies. We may later decide to change the focus or timing of a Phase 3 program. The Phase 3 clinical trials for denufosol for cystic fibrosis may not be successful or unexpected safety concerns may emerge that would negatively change the risk/benefit profile for this product candidate. Even if such clinical trials are successful, we cannot predict when, or if, the FDA or other regulatory authorities will approve denufosol and allow its commercialization. Estimated development costs are difficult to project and may change frequently prior to regulatory approval. While all new compounds require standard regulated phases of testing, the actual type and scope of testing can vary significantly among different product candidates which may result in significant disparities in total costs required to complete the respective development programs. The number and type of studies that may be required by the FDA, or other regulatory authorities, for a particular compound are based on the compound’s clinical profile compared to existing therapies for the targeted patient population. Factors that affect the costs of a clinical trial include: • The number of patients required to participate in clinical trials to demonstrate statistical significance for a drug’s safety and efficacy and the number and geographical location of clinical trial sites necessary to enroll such patients; • The time required to enroll the targeted number of patients in clinical trials, which may vary depending on the size and availability of the targeted patient population and the perceived benefit to the clinical trial participants; and • The number and type of required laboratory tests supporting clinical trials. Other activities required before submitting an NDA include regulatory preparation for submission, biostatistical analyses, scale-up synthesis, and validation of commercial product. In addition, prior to product launch, production of a certain amount of commercial grade drug product inventory meeting FDA cGMP standards is required, and the manufacturing facility must pass a pre-approval inspection conducted by the FDA to determine whether the product can be consistently manufactured to meet cGMP requirements and to meet specifications submitted to the FDA. Also, ongoing development programs and associated costs are subject to frequent, significant and unpredictable changes due to a number of factors, including: • Data collected in preclinical or clinical trials may prompt significant changes, delays or enhancements to an ongoing development program; 26 Table of Contents • Commercial partners and the underlying contractual agreements may require additional or more involved clinical or preclinical activities; • The FDA, or other regulatory authorities, may direct the sponsor to change or enhance its ongoing development program based on developments in the testing of similar compounds or related compounds; • Unexpected regulatory requirements, changes in regulatory policy or review standards, or interim reviews by regulatory agencies may cause delays or changes to development programs; and • Anticipated manufacturing costs may change significantly due to necessary changes in manufacturing processes, variances from anticipated manufacturing process yields or changes in the cost and/or availability of starting materials, and other costs to ensure the manufacturing facility is in compliance with cGMP requirements and is capable of consistently producing the product candidate in accordance with established specifications submitted to the FDA. Clinical trials may take longer to complete and cost more than we expect, which would adversely affect our ability to commercialize product candidates and achieve profitability. Clinical trials are expensive and are often lengthy. They require appropriate identification of optimal treatment regimens and relevant patient population, adequate supplies of drug product, and sufficient patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • The size and availability of the relevant patient population; • The nature of the protocol; • The proximity of patients to clinical sites; • The eligibility criteria for the clinical trial; and • The perceived benefit of participating in a clinical trial. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. The timing of our Phase 3 program for denufosol for the treatment of cystic fibrosis will be impacted by a number of variables, including clinical development decisions regarding identifying the optimal treatment regimens, patient population, competition for clinical trial participants, approval of other products during our clinical trials, number and length of clinical trials, parallel versus sequential timing of our clinical trials, the exclusion criteria for the clinical trials and use of therapies such as hypertonic saline. Our cystic fibrosis clinical trials will present some unique challenges due to the early-intervention approach we are taking with regard to the clinical trials. This approach will require studying mild patients and usually younger patients who do not typically participate in clinical trials since new products are generally focused on the sicker patient population. In addition, due to the age group of these mild patients, many will be in school and will be required to take the medication three times-a-day. Even if we successfully complete clinical trials, we may not be able to submit any required regulatory submissions in a timely manner and we may not receive regulatory approval for the product candidate. In addition, if the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities require additional clinical trials, we could face increased costs and significant development delays. The timing of the registration process with the FDA for the oral formulation of bilastine for the treatment and prevention of allergic rhinitis may be impacted by the outcome of ongoing clinical studies. FAES met with the FDA in 2005 to discuss potential work that might be required for an NDA submission. The FDA advised FAES to perform a thorough QT/QTc clinical trial designed utilizing FDA guidance. In September 2006, the QT/QTc clinical trial was initiated at a United States-based center. The results of this clinical trial are expected to be available in the second quarter of 2007. The results of the QT/QTc clinical trial, as well as the outcome of our meeting with the FDA related to bilastine, could increase development costs, result in significant development delays or result in the cancellation of the program. 27 Table of Contents From time to time, we conduct clinical trials in different countries around the world and are subject to the risks and uncertainties of doing business internationally. Disruptions in communication and transportation, changes in governmental policies, civil unrest and currency exchange rates may affect the time and costs required to complete clinical trials in other countries. Changes in regulatory policy or new regulations could also result in delays or rejection of our applications for approval of our product candidates. Product candidates designated as “fast track” products by the FDA may not continue to qualify for expedited review. Even if some of our product candidates receive “fast track” designation, the FDA may not approve them at all or any sooner than other product candidates that do not qualify for expedited review. If we fail to reach milestones or to make annual minimum payments or otherwise breach our obligations under our license agreements, our licensors may terminate our agreements with them. We have acquired exclusive rights to develop and commercialize AzaSite and bilastine in the United States and Canada under licensing agreements with InSite Vision and FAES, respectively. Furthermore, we have a license agreement for glaucoma technologies with WARF, and a development and license agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim which grants us certain exclusive rights to develop and market an intranasal dosage form of epinastine, in the United States and Canada, for the treatment or prevention of rhinitis. If we fail to meet payment obligations, performance milestones relating to the timing of regulatory filings, development and commercial diligence obligations, fail to make milestone payments in accordance with applicable provisions, or fail to pay the minimum annual payments under our respective licenses, our licensors may terminate the applicable license. It may be necessary in the future for us to obtain additional licenses to avoid infringement of third-party patents. Additionally, we may enter into license arrangements with other third parties as we build our product portfolio. We do not know the terms on which such licenses may be available, if at all. Risks Related to Product Commercialization Failure to successfully market and commercialize Restasis and Elestat will negatively impact our revenues. Although we co-promote Restasis in the United States, Allergan is primarily responsible for marketing and commercializing Restasis. Accordingly, our revenues on the net sales of Restasis are largely dependent on the actions and success of Allergan, over whom we have no control. The manufacture and sale of Restasis is protected under a use patent which expires in August 2009 and a formulation patent which expires in May 2014. If and when we experience competition, including generics, for Restasis, our revenues attributable to Restasis will be significantly impacted. Our agreement with Allergan provides that we have the responsibility for promoting and marketing Elestat in the United States and paying the associated costs. There can be no assurances that revenues associated with Elestat and Restasis will exceed the related selling, promoting and marketing expenses associated with co-promotion activities for these products during the year ending December 31, 2007. Our revenues will be impacted from time to time by the number of formularies upon which these products are listed, the discounts and pricing under such formularies, as well as the estimated and actual amount of rebates. Allergan is responsible for determining the formularies upon which the products are listed and making the appropriate regulatory and other filings. Inclusion on certain formularies may require price concessions through rebate programs that impact the level of co-promotion revenue that we receive on a product. The need to give price concessions can be particularly acute where a greater number of competing products are listed on the same formulary. Presently, there are a large number of competing products in the allergic conjunctivitis area. As a result, our revenues from net sales of Elestat have been partially offset by higher rebates associated with formulary additions to state Medicaid plans and to a lesser extent to formulary additions 28 Table of Contents on commercial and Medicare Part D plans. In 2006, Elestat lost coverage under several state Medicaid plans. While we do not expect the loss of these coverages to significantly impact our portion of the co-promotion revenue due to the large price concessions associated with these particular states, future loss of coverage under additional states or commercial plans may have a negative impact on our co-promotion revenue. The commercial marketing exclusivity period for Elestat provided under the Hatch-Waxman Act will expire in October 2008, after which time Elestat could face generic or over-the-counter competition if there is no other intellectual property or marketing exclusivity protection covering Elestat. We are aware that several generic pharmaceutical companies have expressed intent to commercialize the ocular form of epinastine after the commercial exclusivity period expires. While we are exploring various possible forms of additional intellectual property coverage to protect the commercialization of Elestat in the United States, there can be no assurance that any form of intellectual property protection covering Elestat will be possible in the United States after the expiration of the commercial exclusivity period under the Hatch-Waxman Act in October 2008. If a generic form of Elestat is introduced into the market, our agreement with Allergan to co-promote Elestat will no longer be in effect, and our revenues attributable to Elestat will cease. Loss of our co-promotion revenue from Elestat will materially impact our results of operations and cash flows. In December 2004, Alcon, Inc. received FDA approval of Pataday®, once-daily olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution. In January 2007, Alcon launched Pataday. Both Pataday and Patanol® (olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution), that requires administration twice-a-day, currently compete with Elestat. In October 2006, Novartis received approval for an over-the-counter version of Zaditor®, and there is a generic version of Zaditor currently available. We cannot predict what effect, if any, the introduction of these new products will have on our future co-promotion revenues related to Elestat. Our present revenues depend solely upon and our future revenues will depend, at least in part, upon the acceptance of Elestat and Restasis by eye-care professionals, allergists and patients. Factors that could affect the acceptance of Elestat and Restasis include: • Satisfaction with existing alternative therapies; • Perceived efficacy relative to other available therapies; • Extent and effectiveness of our promotion and marketing efforts; • Extent and effectiveness of Allergan’s sales and marketing efforts; • Changes in, or the levels of, third-party reimbursement of product costs; • Coverage and reimbursement under Medicare Part D, other state government sponsored plans and commercial plans; • Cost of treatment; • Marketing and sales activities of competitors; • Duration of market exclusivity of Elestat and Restasis; • Pricing and availability of alternative products, including generic or over-the-counter products; • Shifts in the medical community to new treatment paradigms or standards of care; • Relative convenience and ease of administration; • Prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; and • Regulatory approval in other jurisdictions. We cannot predict the potential long-term patient acceptance of, or the effects of competition and managed health care on, sales of either product. 29 Table of Contents We have had limited experience in sales and marketing of products. We have established a sales force to market and promote Elestat and Restasis as well as other potential products. Although the members of our sales force have had experience in sales with other companies, prior to 2004 we never had a sales force and we may undergo difficulties maintaining the sales force. We have incurred substantial expenses in establishing and maintaining the sales force, including substantial additional expenses for the training and management of personnel and the infrastructure to enable the sales force to be effective and compliant with the multiple laws and regulations affecting sales and promotion of Elestat and Restasis. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses in the future. The costs of maintaining our sales force may exceed our product revenues. If AzaSite is approved, we intend to expand our sales force to 98 sales representatives, to call on eye care professionals, who we currently call on, and select high prescribing pediatricians and primary care physicians. We have never called on pediatricians and primary care physicians. A large number of pharmaceutical companies, including those with competing products, much larger sales forces and financial resources, and those with products for indications that are completely unrelated to those of our products and candidates, compete for the time and attention of pediatricians and primary care physicians. Furthermore, if additional products are approved, we will consider substantially expanding our sales force. We may not be able to successfully attract and retain the desired number of qualified sales personnel. In addition, we have no prior experience in negotiating managed care agreements and government contracts, or managing regulatory-related compliance activities such as pharmacovigilance, all of which will be our responsibility if AzaSite is approved. Failure to adequately market and commercialize AzaSite, Prolacria and other product candidates will limit our revenues. If approved by the FDA in the United States and other applicable regulatory authorities outside the United States, the commercial success of AzaSite, Prolacria and other candidates will largely depend on a number of factors, including: • The timing and scope of the product’s launch into the United States and other applicable pharmaceutical markets; • Acceptance by patients and physicians; • The effectiveness of our (or our partner’s) sales and marketing efforts; • A knowledgeable sales force; • Adequate market penetration; • Reimbursement under commercial or government plans; • Successfully contracting for manufacturing capability and distribution services to meet demand; • The manufacturer’s successful building and sustaining of such manufacturing capability; • Our ability to enter into managed care agreements; • Our ability to expand the indications for which we can market applicable product; and • Any competitor’s ability to successfully commercialize competing therapies. In the event AzaSite is approved by the FDA in April 2007, we expect to be in a position to launch the product in the second half of 2007. The timing of the launch is dependent upon a number of factors, including hiring and training additional employees, and entering into contracts related to supply chain management and managed care. The implementation of these and other steps related to a product launch will take significant time 30 Table of Contents and resources. We do not currently have the necessary infrastructure in place to support such a launch and there can be no assurance that we will have the necessary infrastructure in place to support such a launch by the second half of 2007, if at all. In the case of Prolacria, our revenue on its net sales would be largely dependent on the actions and success of Allergan, over whom we have no control. In the event Prolacria is approved by the FDA, we plan to co-promote Prolacria within the United States; however, Allergan is primarily responsible for launching and marketing Prolacria in the United States and other major worldwide pharmaceutical markets, excluding certain Asian markets. If AzaSite, Prolacria and other product candidates are not successfully commercialized, our revenues may be limited. If we are unable to contract with third parties for the synthesis of APIs required for preclinical testing, for the manufacture of drug products for clinical trials, or for the large-scale manufacture of any approved products, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our drug products. The manufacturing of sufficient quantities of new and/or approved product candidates is a time-consuming and complex process. We have no experience or capabilities to conduct the large-scale manufacture of any of our product candidates. In order to successfully commercialize AzaSite and continue to develop our product candidates, we need to contract or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under the FDA’s cGMP regulations capable of manufacturing for us or our collaborators. With the exception of (i) AzaSite for which we have contracted with InSite Vision for APIs and for which we will be responsible for contracting with a third-party manufacturer to manufacture and supply AzaSite in finished product form, (ii) Santen, for which we are required to supply bulk APIs, and (iii) bilastine for which we will be responsible for contracting with a third-party manufacturer to manufacture and supply bilastine in finished product form, all of our partners are responsible for making their own arrangements for the manufacture of drug products, including arranging for the manufacture of bulk APIs. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of both drug substance and finished drug products that remain unpartnered may adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver such products on a timely and competitive basis. Similarly, our dependence on our partners to arrange for their own supplies of finished drug products may adversely affect our operations and revenues. If we, or our partners, are unable to engage or retain third-party manufacturers on commercially acceptable terms, our products may not be commercialized as planned. Our strategy of relying on third parties for manufacturing capabilities presents the following risks: • The manufacturing processes for most of our APIs and finished products have not been validated at the scale required for commercial sales; • Delays in scale-up to commercial quantities and any change at the site of manufacture could delay clinical trials, regulatory submissions and ultimately the commercialization of our products, which could harm our reputation in the medical and scientific communities; • Manufacturers of our products are subject to the FDA’s cGMP regulations, and similar foreign standards that apply, and we do not necessarily have full control over compliance with these regulations by third-party manufacturers; • The FDA may inspect a facility to confirm cGMP compliance and adherence to the specifications submitted to the FDA before an NDA is approved and the facility is subject to ongoing post-approval FDA inspections to ensure continued compliance with cGMP regulations; • If the manufacturing facility does not maintain cGMP compliance after NDA approval, the FDA has the authority to seize product produced under such conditions and may seek to enjoin further manufacture and distribution, as well as other equitable remedies such as mandatory recall; • Without satisfactory long-term agreements with manufacturers, we will not be able to develop or commercialize our product candidates as planned or at all; 31 Table of Contents • We may not have intellectual property rights, or may have to share intellectual property rights, to any improvements in the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our product candidates; and • If we are unable to engage or retain an acceptable third-party manufacturer for any of our product candidates, we would either have to develop our own manufacturing capabilities or delay the development of such product candidate. Reliance on a single party to manufacture and supply either finished product or the bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients for a product or product candidates could adversely affect us. Under our agreements with Allergan, Allergan is responsible for the manufacture and supply of Elestat, Restasis, and Prolacria, if approved by the FDA. It is our understanding that Allergan relies upon an arrangement with a single third party for the manufacture and supply of APIs for each of Elestat, Restasis, and for Prolacria. Allergan then completes the manufacturing process to yield finished product. If AzaSite is approved, we will be responsible for the manufacture of the drug pursuant to regulatory requirements. Under our supply agreement with InSite Vision, InSite Vision will be responsible for supplying us with azithromycin, the API used in AzaSite. InSite Vision, in turn, relies upon an arrangement with a single third-party for the manufacture and supply of such API. We will be responsible for producing the finished product form of AzaSite, which we currently anticipate will be manufactured by a single party. In the event a third-party manufacturer is unable to supply Allergan and InSite Vision (as the case may be), if such supply was unreasonably delayed, or if Allergan or our finished product contract partner are unable to complete the manufacturing cycle, sales of the applicable product could be adversely impacted, which would result in a reduction in any applicable product revenue. In addition, if Allergan or the third-party manufacturers do not maintain cGMP compliance, the FDA could require corrective actions or take enforcement actions that could affect production and availability of the applicable product thus adversely affecting sales. In addition, we have relied upon supply agreements with third parties for the manufacture and supply of the bulk APIs for our product candidates for purposes of preclinical testing and clinical trials. We presently depend upon one vendor as the sole manufacturer of our supply of APIs for Prolacria and denufosol, and one vendor as the sole manufacturer of epinastine. We intend to contract with these vendors, as necessary, for commercial scale manufacturing of our products where we are responsible for such activities. In the case of Prolacria, we expect Allergan to purchase commercial quantities of bulk APIs from a sole manufacturer, including initial launch quantities should the product candidate receive FDA approval. In the case of the Phase 3 oral tablet formulation of bilastine and all other formulations of bilastine, we intend to negotiate a supply agreement pursuant to which FAES will supply us with the bulk bilastine as API for our use in manufacturing, developing and commercializing the bilastine compound. However, we can make no assurance that a supply agreement will be completed in a timely manner, if at all, or that the terms and conditions of such agreement will be acceptable. In addition, we believe that FAES intends to rely upon a single third-party manufacturer for the manufacture and supply of API and that FAES has not entered into a final, binding agreement with such a manufacturer. We will have no control over the terms and conditions of such an agreement between FAES and a third-party manufacturer and the terms and conditions of such agreement may not be acceptable to us. We have not identified an alternative source for the supply of bulk bilastine or a third party to manufacture bilastine in finished product form. We may not be successful in identifying such parties or in entering into acceptable agreements with a party, when they are identified. Delays in any aspect of implementing the manufacturing process could cause significant development delays and increased costs. In addition, if Allergan, FAES or any third-party manufacturer do not maintain cGMP compliance, the FDA could require corrective actions or take enforcement actions that could affect production and availability of the product thus adversely affecting sales. We presently depend on sole manufacturers of APIs for our product 32 Table of Contents candidates and it would be time consuming and costly to identify and qualify new sources. If our vendors were to terminate our arrangement or fail to meet our supply needs we might be forced to delay our development programs and/or be unable to supply products to the market which could delay or reduce revenues and result in loss of market share. We may not be able to successfully compete with other biotechnology companies and established pharmaceutical companies. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. There are many companies seeking to develop products for the same indications that we are working on. Our competitors in the United States and elsewhere are numerous and include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions. Competitors in our core therapeutic areas include: Allergan; Alcon, Inc.; Bausch & Lomb; ISTA Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Lantibio, Inc.; MedPointe Pharmaceuticals; Merck & Co, Inc.; Nascent Pharmaceuticals; Novartis; Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.; Pfizer, Inc.; Santen Senju Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd.; Sucampo Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Vistakon Pharmaceuticals (ophthalmic); Gilead Sciences, Inc.; Genaera Corporation; Genentech, Inc.; Novartis; Predix Pharmaceuticals Holdings, Inc.; Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (cystic fibrosis); AstraZeneca; GlaxoSmithKline; MedPointe Pharmaceuticals; Pfizer; Sanofi-Aventis; and Schering-Plough (allergic rhinitis). Most of these competitors have greater resources than us, including greater financial resources, larger research and development staffs and more experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations. In addition, most of our competitors have greater experience than we do in conducting preclinical and clinical trials and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for product candidates more rapidly than we do. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals, and commence commercial sale of their drugs before we do may achieve a significant competitive advantage, including patent and FDA marketing exclusivity rights that would delay our ability to market products. Drugs resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with our collaborative partners, may not compete successfully with competitors’ existing products or products under development. Acquisitions of competing companies and potential competitors by large pharmaceutical companies or others could enhance financial, marketing and other resources available to such competitors. Academic and government institutions have become increasingly aware of the commercial value of their research findings and are more likely to enter into exclusive licensing agreements with commercial enterprises to market commercial products. Many of our competitors have far greater financial, technical, human and other resources than we do and may be better able to afford larger license fees and milestones attractive to those institutions. Our competitors may also develop technologies and drugs that are safer, more effective, or less costly than any we are developing or which would render our technology and future drugs obsolete and non-competitive. In addition, alternative approaches, such as gene therapy, to treating diseases that we have targeted, such as cystic fibrosis, may make our product candidates obsolete. We will rely on third parties to market, distribute and sell some of our products and those third parties may not perform. We have developed a commercialization organization to co-promote Elestat, Restasis, and Prolacria, if approved, but we are dependent on Allergan, or other experienced third parties, to perform or assist us in the marketing, distribution or sale of these products and our product candidates. In addition, we may not identify acceptable partners or enter into favorable agreements with them for our other product candidates. If AzaSite is approved, we will rely on the services of a third-party distributor to deliver our product to our customers. If third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected sales goals, or maximize the commercial potential of our products, we may be required to hire or expand our own staff and sales force to 33 Table of Contents compete successfully, which may not be possible. If Allergan or other third parties do not perform, or assist us in performing these functions, or if there is a delay or interruption in the distribution of our products, it could have an adverse effect on product revenue and our overall operations. If physicians and patients do not accept our product candidates, they will not be commercially successful. Even if regulatory authorities approve our product candidates, those products may not be commercially successful. Acceptance of and demand for our products will depend largely on the following: • Acceptance by physicians and patients of our products as safe and effective therapies; • Reimbursement of drug and treatment costs by government programs and third-party payors; • Effectiveness of Allergan’s sales and marketing efforts; • Effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • Marketing and sales activities of competitors; • Safety, effectiveness and pricing of alternative products; and • Prevalence and severity of side effects associated with our products. In addition, to achieve broad market acceptance of our product candidates, in many cases we will need to develop, alone or with others, convenient methods for administering the products. For example, we intend that Prolacria will be applied from a vial containing a single day’s dosage of non-preserved medication. Patients may prefer to purchase preserved medication for multiple doses. We have not yet established a plan to develop a multi-dose formulation. Although our partner, Santen, is developing a multi-dose formulation for use in its licensed territories, a multi-dose formulation has not been developed by our other partner, Allergan, for use in the remainder of the world. In addition, denufosol for the treatment of cystic fibrosis is administered by a standard nebulizer three times-a-day but patients may prefer a smaller, more portable, hand-held device. Similar challenges may exist in identifying and perfecting convenient methods of administration for our other product candidates. Risks Related to Governmental Regulation Failure to comply with all applicable regulations, including those that require us to obtain and maintain governmental approvals for our product candidates, may result in fines and restrictions, including the withdrawal of a product from the market. Pharmaceutical companies are subject to significant regulation by a number of national, state and local agencies, including the FDA. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in fines, suspensions or delays of product manufacture or distribution or both, product recalls, delays in marketing activities and sales, withdrawal of marketing approvals, and civil or criminal sanctions including possible exclusion from eligibility for payment of our products by Medicare, Medicaid, and other third-party payors. After initial regulatory approval, the manufacturing and marketing of drugs, including our products, are subject to continuing FDA and foreign regulatory review, and subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturing process or facility may result in restrictions, including withdrawal of the product from the market. The FDA is permitted to revisit and change its prior determinations and based on new information it may change its position with regard to the safety or effectiveness of our products. The FDA is authorized to impose post-marketing requirements such as: • Testing and surveillance to monitor the product and its continued compliance with regulatory requirements; 34 Table of Contents • Submitting products for inspection and, if any inspection reveals that the product is not in compliance, the prohibition of the sale of all products from the same lot; • Requiring us or our partners to conduct long-term safety studies after approval; • Suspending manufacturing; • Recalling products; • Withdrawing marketing approval; • Seizing adulterated, misbranded or otherwise violative products; • Seeking to enjoin the manufacture or distribution, or both, of an approved product that is found to be adulterated or misbranded; and • Seeking monetary fines and penalties, including disgorgement of profits, if a court finds that we are in violation of applicable law. Even before any formal regulatory action, we, or our collaborative partners, could voluntarily decide to cease distribution and sale, or recall, any of our products if concerns about safety or effectiveness develop, if certain cGMP deviations are found, or if economic conditions support such action. In its regulation of advertising, the FDA may issue correspondence to pharmaceutical companies alleging that its advertising or promotional materials are false, misleading or deceptive. The FDA has the power to impose a wide array of sanctions on companies for such advertising practices and if we were to receive correspondence from the FDA alleging these practices it may be necessary for us to: • Incur substantial expenses, including fines, penalties, legal fees and costs to conform to the FDA’s limits on such promotion; • Change our methods of marketing, promoting and selling products; • Take corrective action, which could include placing advertisements or sending letters to physicians rescinding previous advertisements or promotion; or • Disrupt the distribution of products and stop sales until we are in compliance with the FDA’s interpretation of applicable laws and regulations. In addition, in recent years, some alleged violations of FDA requirements regarding off-label promotion of products by manufacturers have been alleged also to violate the federal civil False Claims Act, resulting in substantial monetary settlements. Also, various legislative proposals have been offered in Congress and in some state legislatures that include major changes in the health care system. These proposals have included price or patient reimbursement constraints on medicines and restrictions on access to certain products. We cannot predict the outcome of such initiatives and it is difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting us. Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation and future legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our or our partner’s ability to sell products profitably. In both the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, established a voluntary outpatient prescription drug benefit under Part D of the Social Security Act. The program, which went into effect January 1, 2006, is administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, within the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS. CMS has issued extensive regulations and other subregulatory guidance documents implementing the new benefit. Moreover, the HHS Office of Inspector 35 Table of Contents General has issued regulations and other guidance in connection with the program. Allergan is responsible for the implementation of the Medicare Part D program as it relates to Elestat and Restasis and has contracted with Part D plan sponsors to cover such drugs under the Part D benefit. We will be responsible for contracting with Part D plan sponsors with respect to AzaSite, if it is approved. The federal government can be expected to continue to issue guidance and regulations regarding the obligations of Part D sponsors and their subcontractors. Participating drug plans may establish drug formularies that exclude coverage of specific drugs, and payment levels for drugs negotiated with Part D drug plans may be lower than reimbursement levels available through private health plans or other payers. Moreover, beneficiary co-insurance requirements could influence which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. There is no assurance that any drug that we co-promote or sell will be offered by drug plans participating under the Medicare Part D program that, if covered, the terms of any such coverage, or that covered drugs will be reimbursed at amounts that reflect current or historical levels. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the reimbursement changes emerging in 2007 and in future years from the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation. To the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow Medicare coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects of lower Medicare payment may be magnified by private insurers adopting similar lower payment. New federal or state drug payment changes or healthcare reforms in the United States and in foreign countries may be enacted or adopted in the future that could further lower payment for our products. We are subject to “fraud and abuse” and similar government laws and regulations, and a failure to comply with such laws and regulations, or an investigation into our compliance with such laws and regulations, or a failure to prevail in any litigation related to noncompliance, could harm our business. Pharmaceutical pricing, sales, and marketing programs and arrangements, and related business practices in the health care industry generally are under increasing scrutiny from federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial, and administrative entities. These entities include the Department of Justice and its United States Attorneys Offices, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, and various state Attorneys General offices. Many health care laws, including the federal and state anti-kickback laws and statutory and common law false claims laws, have been construed broadly by the courts and permit government entities to exercise considerable discretion. In the event that any of these government entities believed that wrongdoing had occurred, one or more of them could institute civil or criminal proceedings which, if instituted and resolved unfavorably, could subject us to substantial fines, penalties, and injunctive and administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs. We cannot predict whether any investigations would affect our marketing or sales practices. Any such result could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and our business. Such investigations, which also could be instituted as the result of the filing of a qui tam or whistleblower suit by a private relator, could be costly, divert management’s attention from our business, and result in damage to our reputation. We cannot guarantee that measures that we have taken to prevent violations, including our corporate compliance program, will protect us from future violations, lawsuits or investigations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant negative impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. Failure to adequately control compliance with all applicable laws and regulations may adversely affect our business, and we may become subject to investigative or enforcement actions. There are extensive state, federal and foreign laws and regulations applicable to public pharmaceutical companies engaged in the discovery, development and commercialization of medicinal products. There are laws and regulations that govern areas including financial controls, clinical trials, testing, manufacturing, labeling, safety, packaging, shipping, distribution and promotion of pharmaceuticals, including those governing interactions with prescribers and healthcare professionals in a position to prescribe, recommend, or arrange for 36 Table of Contents the provision of our products. While we have implemented corporate quality, ethics and compliance programs based on current best practices, we cannot guarantee against all possible transgressions. Moreover, pharmaceutical manufacturers in recent years have been the targets of extensive whistleblower actions in which the person bringing an action alleges a variety of violations of the civil False Claims Act, in such areas as pricing practices, off-label product promotion, sales and marketing practices, improper relationships with physicians and other healthcare professionals, among others. The potential ramifications are far-reaching if there are areas identified as out of compliance by regulatory agencies including, but not limited to, significant financial penalties, manufacturing and clinical trial consent decrees, commercialization restrictions or other restrictions and litigation. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to a whistleblower or other investigative or enforcement action at some time in the future. Risks Associated with Our Business and Industry We have been named as a defendant in litigation that could result in substantial damages and costs and divert management’s attention and resources. On February 15, 2005, the first of five identical purported shareholder class action complaints was filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina against us and certain of our senior officers. Each complaint alleged violations of sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 10b-5, and focused on statements that are claimed to be false and misleading regarding a Phase 3 clinical trial of our dry eye product candidate, Prolacria. Each complaint sought unspecified damages on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of our securities during the period from June 2, 2004 through February 8, 2005. On March 27, 2006, following consolidation of the lawsuits into a single civil action and appointment of lead plaintiffs, the plaintiffs filed a Consolidated Class Action Complaint, or CAC. The CAC asserts claims against us and certain of our present or former senior officers or directors. The CAC asserts claims under sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 based on statements alleged to be false and misleading regarding a Phase 3 clinical trial of Prolacria, and also adds claims under sections 11, 12(a)(2) and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933. The CAC also asserts claims against certain parties that served as underwriters in our securities offerings during the period relevant to the CAC. The CAC seeks unspecified damages on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of our securities during the period from May 10, 2004 through February 8, 2005. In May 2006, the plaintiffs agreed to voluntarily dismiss their claims against the underwriters on the basis that they were time-barred. On June 30, 2006, Inspire and other defendants moved that the court dismiss the CAC on the grounds that it fails to state a claim upon which relief can be granted and does not satisfy the pleading requirements under applicable law. Briefing on that motion is now complete and it is currently pending before the court. We intend to defend the litigation vigorously. No assurance can be made that we will be successful in our defense of the pending claims. If we are not successful in our defense of the claims, we could be forced to, among other ramifications, make significant payments to resolve the claims and such payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, future results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows if not covered by our insurance carriers or if damages exceed the limits of our insurance coverage. Furthermore, regardless of our success in defending against the litigation, the litigation itself has resulted, and may continue to result, in substantial costs, use of resources and diversion of the attention of management and other employees, which could adversely affect our business. We have various insurance policies related to the risk associated with our business, including directors and officers insurance. However, there is no assurance that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or that our insurance companies will cover the matters claimed. In the event of an adverse outcome, our business as well as our future results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows could be materially affected to the extent that our insurance fails to cover such costs. 37 Table of Contents The investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission could have a material adverse effect on our business. On August 30, 2005, the SEC notified us that it is conducting a formal, nonpublic investigation which we believe relates to our Phase 3 clinical trial of our dry eye product candidate, Prolacria. On October 19, 2006, we received a Wells Notice letter from the staff of the SEC, issued in connection with this investigation. Our Chief Executive Officer and our Executive Vice President, Operations and Communications, also received Wells Notices. The Wells Notices provide notification of the SEC staff’s determination that it intends to recommend to the SEC that it bring a civil action against us and the two officers regarding possible violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 10(b) and 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, and 13a-14 thereunder. Under the process established by the SEC, we and the two officers have the opportunity to respond in writing to the Wells Notice before the staff makes any formal recommendation to the SEC regarding what action, if any, should be brought by the SEC. We and the officers receiving these notices provided written submissions to the SEC in response to the Wells Notices during December 2006, and may seek a further meeting with the SEC staff. We are unable to predict the outcome of the investigation and no assurance can be made that the investigation will be concluded favorably. In the event of an adverse outcome, our business, future results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows could be materially affected. Furthermore, regardless of the outcome of the investigation, the investigation itself has resulted, and may continue to result, in substantial uninsured costs, use of resources and diversion of the attention of management and other employees, which could adversely affect our business. We have various insurance policies related to the risk associated with our business, including directors and officers insurance. However, there is no assurance that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or that our insurance companies will cover the matters claimed. In the event of an adverse outcome, our business as well as our future results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows could be materially affected to the extent that our insurance fails to cover such costs. Our co-promotion revenues are based, in part, upon Allergan’s revenue recognition policy and other accounting policies over which we have limited or no control. We recognize co-promotion revenue based on Allergan’s net sales for Elestat and Restasis as defined in the co-promotion agreements and as reported to us by Allergan. Accordingly, our co-promotion revenues are based upon Allergan’s revenue recognition policy and other accounting policies over which we have limited or no control and the underlying terms of our co-promotion agreements. Allergan’s filings with the SEC indicate that Allergan maintains disclosure controls and procedures in accordance with applicable laws, which are designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be reported by Allergan in its Exchange Act filings is reported timely and in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. We are not entitled to review Allergan’s disclosure controls and procedures. All of our co-promotion revenues are currently derived from Allergan’s net sales of Elestat and Restasis as reported to us by Allergan. Management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006, and these internal controls allow us to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; however, we are unable to provide complete assurance that Allergan will not revise reported revenue amounts in the future. If Allergan’s reported revenue amounts were inaccurate, it could have a material impact on our financial statements, including financial statements for previous periods. Revenues in future periods could vary significantly and may not cover our operating expenses. We recognize milestone revenue under our collaborative research and development agreements when we have performed services under such agreements or when we or our collaborative partner has met a contractual 38 Table of Contents milestone triggering a payment to us. In the year ended December 31, 2006, we recognized milestone revenue of $1.25 million from Santen associated with the completion of Phase 2 clinical testing of diquafosol tetrasodium in Japan. We or our collaborative partners did not reach any such contractual milestones in 2004 and 2005. There can be no assurances that we or our collaborative partners will reach any additional contractual milestones during 2007 or at any later date. Additionally, our revenues may fluctuate from period to period due in part to: • Fluctuations in sales of Elestat, Restasis and other future licensed or co-promoted products due to competition, manufacturing difficulties, reimbursement and pricing under commercial or government plans, seasonality, or other factors that affect the sales of a product; • Deductions from gross sales relating to estimates of sales returns, credits and allowances, normal trade and cash discounts, managed care sales rebates and other allocated costs as defined in our agreements, all of which are determined by Allergan and are outside our control; • The duration of market exclusivity of Elestat and Restasis; • The timing of approvals, if any, and the commercial launch of AzaSite and other possible future products; • The progress toward and the achievement of developmental milestones by us or our partners; • The initiation of new contractual arrangements with other companies; • The failure or refusal of a collaborative partner to pay royalties or milestone payments; • The expiration or invalidation of our patents or licensed intellectual property; or • Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If we are not able to obtain sufficient additional funding to meet our expanding capital requirements, we may be forced to reduce or eliminate research programs and product candidate development. We have used substantial amounts of cash to fund our research and development activities. Our operating expenses were approximately $83.7 million and approximately $58.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled approximately $102.3 million on December 31, 2006, which includes $20 million of debt financing we received in December 2006. We expect that our capital and operating expenditures will continue to exceed our revenue over the next several years as we conduct our research and development activities, clinical trials and commercial activities. Many factors will influence our future capital needs, including: • The number, breadth and progress of our research and development programs; • The size and scope of our marketing programs; • Our ability to attract collaborators for our products and establish and maintain those relationships; • Achievement of milestones under our existing or future collaborations and licensing agreements; • Progress by our collaborators with respect to the development of product candidates; • The level of activities relating to commercialization of our products; • Competing technological and market developments; • The timing and terms of any business development activities; • The timing and amount of debt repayment requirements; • The costs involved in defending any litigation claims against us; 39 Table of Contents • The costs involved in responding to SEC investigations; • The costs involved in enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights including costs associated with enhancing market exclusivity for Elestat; and • The costs and timing of regulatory approvals. In addition, our capital requirements will depend upon: • The receipt of revenue from Allergan on net sales of Elestat and Restasis; • The receipt or payment of milestone payments under our collaborative agreements; • The ability to obtain approval from the FDA for AzaSite or Prolacria; • Upon any such approval, the ability to generate sufficient sales of AzaSite or Prolacria; • Our ability to obtain approval from the FDA for any of our other product candidates; and • Payments from existing and future collaborators. In the event that we do not receive timely regulatory approvals, we may need substantial additional funds to fully develop, manufacture, market and sell all of our other potential products and support our co-promotion efforts. We may seek such additional funding through public or private equity offerings and debt financings. Additional financing may not be available when needed. If available, such financing may not be on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. Stockholders’ ownership will be diluted if we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities. If we raise funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we may have to give up rights to our technologies or product candidates which are involved in these future collaborations and arrangements or grant licenses on unfavorable terms. If adequate funds are not available, we would have to scale back or terminate research programs and product development and we may not be able to successfully commercialize any product candidate. If we are unable to make the scheduled principal and interest payments on the term loan facility or maintain minimum liquidity levels or compliance with other debt covenants as defined in the loan and security agreement, we may default on our debt. In December 2006, we entered into a loan and security agreement for up to $40 million. Upon execution of the agreement, we borrowed an initial amount of $20 million under the agreement. The loan is secured by substantially all of our assets, except for our intellectual property, but including all accounts, license and royalty fees and other revenues and proceeds arising from our intellectual property. Under the agreement, we are required to maintain a minimum liquidity level based on the balance of the outstanding advances. The agreement may affect our operations in several ways, including the following: • A portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our indebtedness; • Our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; • We may need to raise additional capital in order to remain in compliance with the loan covenants; • Our ability to enter into certain transactions may be limited; or • We may need to delay or reduce planned expenditures or clinical trials as well as other development and commercial activities if our current operations are not sufficient enough to service our debt. Our ability to borrow additional amounts under this agreement are subject to the satisfaction of any one of a number of conditions related to our progress in developing bilastine or our success in obtaining FDA approval for other product candidates owned by or in-licensed to us. To the extent that none of the conditions are satisfied, we 40 Table of Contents may still borrow from the term loan facility, but only in the amount by which our research and development expenditures on bilastine and/or another in-licensed product candidate exceed the initial advance of $20 million. In addition to the conditions above, we may not be able to borrow additional funds under this agreement if we are not able to maintain various negative and financial covenants. Events of default are not limited to, but include the following: • Payment default; • Covenant default; • A material adverse change in Inspire; • Breach of our agreements with Allegan; • Breach of agreement with FAES; or • Judgments against us over a certain dollar amount. In case of an uncured default, the following actions may be taken against us by the lending institutions: • All outstanding obligations associated with the term loan facility would be immediately due and payable; • Any future advancement of credit under the term loan facility would cease; • Any of our balances and deposits held by the lending institutions would be applied to the obligation; • Balances and accounts at other financial institutions could be “held” or exclusive control be transferred to the lending institutions; and • All collateral, as defined in the agreement, could be seized and disposed of. If we continue to incur operating losses for a period longer than anticipated, or in an amount greater than anticipated, we may be unable to continue our operations. We have experienced significant losses since inception. We incurred net losses of approximately $42.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, and approximately $31.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was approximately $245.1 million. We currently expect to incur significant operating losses over the next several years and expect that cumulative losses may increase in the near-term due to expanded research and development efforts, preclinical studies, clinical trials and commercialization efforts. We expect that losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and that such fluctuations may be substantial. Such fluctuations will be affected by the following: • Timing of regulatory approvals and commercial sales of our product candidates and any co-promotion products; • The level of patient demand for our products and any licensed products; • Timing of payments to and from licensors and corporate partners; • Product candidate development activities in order to achieve regulatory approval; • Timing of investments in new technologies and commercial capability; • Commercialization activities to support co-promotion efforts; and • The costs involved in defending any litigation claims against, or government investigations of, us. To achieve and sustain profitable operations, we must, alone or with others, develop successfully, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and sell our products. The time frame necessary to 41 Table of Contents achieve market success is long and uncertain. We may not generate sufficient product revenues to become profitable or to sustain profitability. If the time required to achieve profitability is longer than we anticipate, we may not be able to continue our business. Our dependence on collaborative relationships may lead to delays in product development, lost revenues and disputes over rights to technology. Our business strategy depends to some extent upon the formation of research collaborations, licensing and/or marketing arrangements. We currently have collaboration agreements with several collaborators, including Allergan, Boehringer Ingelheim, FAES, InSite Vision and Santen. The termination of any collaboration will result in the loss of any unmet development or commercial milestone payments, may lead to delays in product development and disputes over technology rights, and may reduce our ability to enter into collaborations with other potential partners. In the event we breach an agreement with a collaborator, the collaborator is entitled to terminate our agreement with them in the event we do not cure the breach within a specified period of time, which is typically 60 or 90 days from the notice date. If we do not maintain our current collaborations, or establish additional research and development collaborations or licensing arrangements, it will be difficult to develop and commercialize potential products. Any future collaborations or licensing arrangements may not be on terms favorable to us. Our current or any future collaborations or licensing arrangements ultimately may not be successful. Under our current strategy, and for the foreseeable future, we do not expect to develop or market products outside North America without a collaborative partner or outside our therapeutic areas of focus. We are currently pursuing the out-licensing of certain rights related to our cystic fibrosis and platelet programs. We may be unsuccessful in out-licensing these programs or we may out-license these programs on terms that are not favorable to us. We will continue to depend on collaborators and contractors for the preclinical study and clinical development of therapeutic products and for manufacturing and marketing of potential products. Our agreements with collaborators typically allow them some discretion in electing whether to pursue such activities. If any collaborator were to breach or terminate its agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct collaborative activities in a timely and successful manner, the preclinical or clinical development or commercialization of product candidates or research programs would be delayed or terminated. Any delay or termination in clinical development or commercialization would delay or eliminate potential product revenues relating to our product candidates. Disputes may arise in the future over the ownership of rights to any technology developed with collaborators. These and other possible disagreements between us and our collaborators could lead to delays in the collaborative development or commercialization of therapeutic or diagnostic products. Such disagreement could also result in litigation or require arbitration to resolve. Failure to hire and retain key personnel or to identify, appoint and elect qualified directors, may hinder our product development programs and our business efforts. We depend on the principal members of management and scientific staff, including Christy L. Shaffer, Ph.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer and a director, and Thomas R. Staab, II, our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. If these people leave us, we may have difficulty conducting our operations. We have not entered into agreements with any officers or any other members of our management and scientific staff that bind them to a specific period of employment. We also depend upon the skills and guidance of the independent members of our Board of Directors. We presently have one vacancy on our Board of Directors. There can be no assurance that we can identify, appoint and elect qualified candidates to serve as members of the Board of Directors. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract, hire or appoint, and retain additional personnel skilled or experienced in the pharmaceutical industry. There is intense competition for such qualified personnel. We may not be able to attract and retain such personnel. 42 Table of Contents If our patent protection is inadequate, the development and any possible sales of our product candidates could suffer or competitors could force our products completely out of the market. Our business and competitive position depends on our ability to continue to develop and protect our products and processes, proprietary methods and technology. Except for patent claims covering new chemical compounds, many of our patents are use patents containing claims covering methods of treating disorders and diseases by administering therapeutic chemical compounds. Use patents, while providing adequate protection for commercial efforts in the United States, may afford a lesser degree of protection in other countries due to their patent laws. Besides our use patents, we have patents and patent applications covering compositions (new chemical compounds), pharmaceutical formulations and processes for large-scale manufacturing. Many of the chemical compounds included in the claims of our use patents and process applications were known in the scientific community prior to our patent applications. None of our composition patents or patent applications covers these previously known chemical compounds, which are in the public domain. As a result, competitors may be able to commercialize products that use the same previously known chemical compounds used by us for the treatment of disorders and diseases not covered by our use patents. Such competitors’ activities may reduce our revenues. If we must defend a patent suit, or if we choose to initiate a suit to have a third-party patent declared invalid, we may need to make considerable expenditures of money and management time in litigation. We believe that there is significant litigation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. A patent does not provide the patent holder with freedom to operate in a way that infringes the patent rights of others. While we are not aware of any patent that we are infringing, nor have we been accused of infringement by any other party, other companies may have, or may acquire, patent rights, which we might be accused of infringing. A judgment against us in a patent infringement action could cause us to pay monetary damages, require us to obtain licenses, or prevent us from manufacturing or marketing the affected products. In addition, we may need to initiate litigation to enforce our proprietary rights against others. Should we choose to do this, as with the above, we may need to make considerable expenditures of money and management time in litigation. Further, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, to determine the priority of invention of any of our technologies. Our ability to develop sufficient patent rights in our pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology products to support commercialization efforts is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. For instance, the USPTO examiners may not allow our claims in examining our patent applications. If we have to appeal a decision to the USPTO’s Appeals Board for a final determination of patentability, we could incur significant legal fees. Since we rely upon trade secrets and agreements to protect some of our intellectual property, there is a risk that unauthorized parties may obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We rely upon the laws of trade secrets and non-disclosure agreements and other contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary compounds, methods, processes, formulations and other information for which we are not seeking patent protection. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary technologies, processes, information systems and data, and we continue to explore ways to further enhance security. However, despite these efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Employees, academic collaborators and consultants with whom we have entered confidentiality and/or non-disclosure agreements may improperly disclose our proprietary information. In addition, competitors may, through a variety of proper means, independently develop substantially the equivalent of our proprietary information and technologies, gain access to our trade secrets, or properly design around any of our patented technologies. 43 Table of Contents Use of our products may result in product liability claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Clinical trials or manufacturing, marketing and sale of our potential products may expose us to liability claims from the use of those products. Product liability claims could result in the imposition of substantial liability on us, a recall of products, or a change in the indications for which they may be used. Although we carry clinical trial liability insurance and product liability insurance, we, or our collaborators, may not maintain sufficient insurance. We do not have the financial resources to self-insure and it is unlikely that we will have these financial resources in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to protect against potential product liability claims adequately, we may find it difficult or impossible to continue to co-promote our products, or to commercialize the product candidates we develop. If claims or losses exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may go out of business. Our operations involve a risk of injury from hazardous materials, which could be very expensive to us. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. If such an accident were to occur, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are substantial. Our commercial insurance and umbrella policies include limited coverage designated for pollutant clean-up and removal and limited general liability coverage per occurrence and in the aggregate. The cost of these policies is significant and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain these policies or that coverage amounts will be sufficient to insure potential losses. Insurance coverage is increasingly more costly and difficult to obtain or maintain. While we currently have insurance for our business, property, directors and officers, and our products, insurance is increasingly more costly and narrower in scope, and we may be required to assume more risk in the future. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage in excess of our insurance coverage, we will be required to share that risk in excess of our insurance limits. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage that is outside of our insurance coverage, we may incur significant uninsured costs associated with loss or damage that could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial position. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may impact our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs or at all. Risks Related to Our Stock Our common stock price has been volatile and your investment in our stock may decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. These fluctuations create a greater risk of capital losses for our stockholders as compared to less volatile stocks. Factors that have caused volatility and could cause additional volatility in the market price of our common stock include among others: • Announcements regarding the NDA for AzaSite or Prolacria, or foreign regulatory equivalent submissions; • Announcements made by us concerning results of clinical trials with our product candidates; • Market acceptance and market share of products we co-promote; • Duration of market exclusivity of Elestat and Restasis; 44 Table of Contents • Volatility in other securities including pharmaceutical and biotechnology securities; • Changes in government regulations; • Regulatory actions and/or investigations, including our ongoing SEC investigation; • Changes in the development priorities of our collaborators that result in changes to, or termination of, our agreements with such collaborators; • Developments concerning proprietary rights including patents by us or our competitors; • Variations in our operating results; • FDA approval of other treatments for the same indication as any one of our product candidates; • Business development activities; • Litigation; • Terrorist attacks; and • Military actions. Extreme price and volume fluctuations occur in the stock market from time to time that can particularly affect the prices of biotechnology companies. These extreme fluctuations are sometimes unrelated to the actual performance of the affected companies. Our existing principal stockholders hold a substantial amount of our common stock and may be able to influence significant corporate decisions, which may conflict with the interest of other stockholders. As of January 31, 2007, our current 5% stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 42% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they act together, may be able to influence the outcome of matters requiring approval of the stockholders, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions such as: • our merger with or into another company; • a sale of substantially all of our assets; and • amendments to our certificate of incorporation. The decisions of these stockholders may conflict with our interests or those of our other stockholders. Future sales of securities may cause our stock price to decline. Future sales of our common stock by current stockholders into the public market could cause the market price of our stock to fall. As of January 31, 2007, there were 42,238,355 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these outstanding shares of common stock, approximately 21,500,000 shares were sold in public offerings and are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, unless purchased by our affiliates. In addition, we have the ability to issue additional shares of common stock under an active shelf registration statement, which we filed with the SEC on April 16, 2004. On March 9, 2007, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 that will permit us, if such registration statement is declared effective by the SEC, to sell up to $130 million of securities, including common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, depositary shares and securities warrants, from time to time at prices and on terms to be determined at the time of sale. Up to 10,178,571 shares of our common stock are issued or issuable upon exercise of stock options that have been, or stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards and restricted stock units that may be, issued pursuant to our Amended and Restated 1995 Stock Plan and our 2005 Equity Compensation Plan. The shares underlying existing stock options and restricted stock units and possible future stock options, stock appreciation rights and 45 Table of Contents stock awards have been registered pursuant to registration statements on Form S-8. The remaining shares of common stock outstanding are not registered under the Securities Act and may be resold in the public market only if registered or if there is an exemption from registration, such as Rule 144. If some or all of such shares are sold into the public market over a short period of time, the value of all publicly traded shares is likely to decline, as the market may not be able to absorb those shares at then-current market prices. Such sales may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that our management deems acceptable, or at all. As of January 31, 2007, our 5 largest stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 42% of our outstanding common stock. Further, we may issue additional shares: • To employees, directors and consultants; • In connection with corporate alliances; • In connection with acquisitions; and • To raise capital. Based upon our closing stock price of $6.48 on January 31, 2007, there were outstanding options, which were exercisable and in-the-money, to purchase 1,085,651 shares of our common stock. This amount combined with the total common stock outstanding at January 31, 2007 is 43,324,006 shares of common stock. As a result of these factors, a substantial number of shares of our common stock could be sold in the public market at any time causing fluctuations or reductions in our stock price. Our Rights Agreement, the provisions of our Change in Control Severance Benefit Plan and our Change in Control Agreements with management, the anti-takeover provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws, and our right to issue preferred stock, may discourage a third party from making a take-over offer that could be beneficial to us and our stockholders and may make it difficult for stockholders to replace our Board of Directors and effect a change in our management if they desire to do so. In October 2002, we entered into a Rights Agreement with Computershare Trust Company. The Rights Agreement could discourage, delay or prevent a person or group from acquiring 15% or more of our common stock. The Rights Agreement provides that if a person acquires 15% or more of our common stock without the approval of our Board of Directors, all other stockholders will have the right to purchase securities from us at a price that is less than its fair market value, which would substantially reduce the value of our common stock owned by the acquiring person. As a result, our Board of Directors has significant discretion to approve or disapprove a person’s efforts to acquire 15% or more of our common stock. Effective as of January 28, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Inspire adopted the Company’s Change in Control Severance Benefit Plan, or the CIC Plan, which provides severance benefits to certain employees of the Company as of the date on which a Change in Control occurs. Under the CIC Plan and the Change in Control Agreements discussed below, a Change in Control occurs upon a determination by the Board of Directors or upon certain specified events such as merger and consolidation. The CIC Plan covers any regular full-time or part-time employee, other than employees who are parties to employment agreements or who are parties to any severance plan or agreement with the Company (other than the CIC Plan) that provides for the payment of severance benefits in connection with a Change in Control. Under the CIC Plan, if a Change in Control occurs and a participant’s employment is involuntarily terminated within two years, the participant will be entitled to certain payments and benefits based on the participant’s salary range and years of service with the Company. All executive officers of the Company are parties to individual agreements with the Company regarding a Change in Control and as a result, are not covered by the CIC Plan. Each Change in Control Agreement provides that upon the executive officer’s termination of employment following a Change in Control, 46 Table of Contents unless such termination is for “cause,” because of death or disability or by the executive officer without “good reason,” within 24 months following such Change in Control, the executive officer will be entitled to a lump sum payment equal to a multiple of the sum of (i) the highest annual base salary received by the executive officer in any of the three most recently completed fiscal years prior to the Change in Control and (ii) the higher of the highest annual bonus received by the executive officer in any of the three most recently completed fiscal years preceding the date of the executive officer’s termination, the three most recent completed fiscal years preceding the Change in Control, or the maximum of the bonus opportunity range for the executive officer immediately prior to the date of termination. The multiples used to determine the amount of a lump sum payment range from two to three. The Change in Control Agreements also provide for ongoing benefits, the vesting of outstanding stock options, and gross-up payments. The CIC Plan and the Change in Control Agreements would increase the acquisition costs to a purchasing company that triggers the change in control provisions. As a result, the CIC Plan and the Change in Control Agreements may delay or prevent a change in control. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions which could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring shares of our common stock or replacing members of our Board of Directors. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors can determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. As a result, our Board of Directors could make it difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Since management is appointed by the Board of Directors, any inability to effect a change in the Board of Directors may result in the entrenchment of management. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation also provides that the members of the Board will be divided into three classes. Each year the terms of approximately one-third of the directors will expire. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws include director nomination procedures and do not permit our stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders. Under the Bylaws, only our Chief Executive Officer, President, Chairman of the Board, Vice-Chairman of the Board or a majority of the Board of Directors are able to call special meetings. The staggering of directors’ terms of office, the director nomination procedures and the inability of stockholders to call a special meeting may make it difficult for stockholders to remove or replace the Board of Directors should they desire to do so. The director nomination requirements include a provision that requires stockholders give advance notice to our Secretary of any nominations for director or other business to be brought by stockholders at any stockholders’ meeting. Our directors may be removed from our Board of Directors only for cause. These provisions may delay or prevent changes of control or management, either by third parties or by stockholders seeking to change control or management. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a take-over offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in section 203. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report on Form 10-K, including the documents that we incorporate by reference, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. Any statements about our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance are not historical facts and may be forward-looking. These statements are often, but not always, made through the use of words or phrases such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” 47 Table of Contents “plan,” “project,” “continuing,” “believe,” “expect,” “future” and “intend” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by any forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the risk factors listed above and those relating to product development, revenue and earnings expectations, intellectual property rights and litigation, competitive products, results of clinical trials, the need for additional research and testing, delays in manufacturing, funding and the timing and content of decisions made by regulatory authorities, including the FDA and other factors presented throughout this annual report and any other documents filed by us with the SEC. In light of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties, the results and events discussed in the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K or in any document incorporated by reference might not occur. Stockholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only of the date of this report or the date of the document incorporated by reference in this document. We are not under any obligation, and we expressly disclaim any obligation, to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or to any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 