Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a substantial risk of loss. You should carefully read this entire report and should give particular attention to the following risk factors. You should recognize that other significant risks may arise in the future, which we cannot foresee at this time. Also, the risks that we now foresee might affect us to a greater or different degree than expected. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by any forward-looking statements in this report. These factors include, without limitation, the risk factors listed below and other factors presented throughout this report and any other reports filed by us with the SEC. Risks Related to Product Commercialization Failure to adequately market and commercialize AzaSite will negatively impact our revenues. The commercial success of AzaSite will depend on a number of factors, including: • Acceptance by patients and physicians; • Effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • Ability to differentiate AzaSite relative to our competitors’ products; • Ability to further develop clinical information to support AzaSite; • Market satisfaction with existing alternative therapies; • Perceived efficacy relative to other available therapies; • Disease prevalence; • Cost of treatment; • Pricing and availability of alternative products, including generic or over-the-counter products; • Marketing and sales activities of competitors; • Shifts in the medical community to new treatment paradigms or standards of care; • Relative convenience and ease of administration; • The manufacturer’s successful sustaining of manufacturing capability; and • Our ability to enter into managed care and governmental agreements on favorable terms. We are responsible for all aspects of the commercialization of this product, including the determination of formularies upon which AzaSite is listed, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and sales. The determination of formularies upon which AzaSite is listed, the discounts and pricing under such formularies, as well as the amount of time it takes for us to obtain favorable formulary status under various plans will impact our commercialization efforts. Additionally, inclusion on certain formularies requires significant price concessions through rebate programs that impact the level of revenue that we receive. The need to give price concessions can be particularly acute where competing products are listed on the same formulary, such as the area of bacterial conjunctivitis. If AzaSite is not successfully commercialized, our revenues will be limited. Under our agreement with InSite Vision, we are obligated to make pre-determined minimum annual royalty payments to InSite Vision. To the extent annual royalty payments actually paid to InSite Vision on our sales of AzaSite are less than the minimum annual royalty amounts established under our agreement with InSite Vision, 21 Table of Contents we are obligated to pay the difference. In the event we are required to make annual minimum royalty payments, our profits with respect to AzaSite, if any, will be decreased or any losses with respect to the product will be increased. Such circumstances may result in us ceasing our commercialization of AzaSite and terminating our agreement with InSite Vision. If Restasis is not successfully commercialized by Allergan, our revenues will be negatively impacted. Allergan is responsible for commercializing Restasis. Accordingly, our revenues on the net sales of Restasis are dependent on the actions and success of Allergan, over whom we have no control. Following the expiration of a use patent in August 2009, the manufacture and sale of Restasis is protected in the United States by a formulation patent that expires in May 2014. While a formulation patent may afford certain limited protection, a competitor may attempt to gain FDA approval for a cyclosporine product using a different formulation. Furthermore, following the expiration of the formulation patent in 2014, a generic form of Restasis could be introduced into the market. If and when Restasis experiences competition from a cyclosporine product, including generics, our revenues attributable to Restasis may be significantly impacted. Other factors that could affect the commercialization of Restasis include: • Extent and effectiveness of Allergan’s sales and marketing efforts; • Satisfaction with existing alternative therapies, including generic or over-the-counter products; • Perceived efficacy relative to other available therapies; • Changes in, or the levels of, third-party reimbursement of product costs; • Coverage and reimbursement under Medicare Part D, state government sponsored plans and commercial plans; • Cost of treatment; • Development and FDA approval of competing dry eye products; and • Shifts in the medical community to new treatment paradigms or standards of care. When a generic form of Elestat or an over-the-counter form of epinastine ophthalmic solution is introduced into the market, our agreement with Allergan to co-promote Elestat will no longer be in effect, and our revenues from sales of Elestat will be minimal. Our Elestat co-promotion agreement with Allergan provides that unless earlier terminated, the term of such agreement will be in effect until the earlier of (i) the approval and launch of the first generic epinastine product after expiration of the FDA exclusivity period covering Elestat in the United States, or (ii) the approval and launch of the first over-the-counter epinastine product after expiration of the listing of Elestat in the FDA publication Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence (commonly called the “Orange Book”). Following the termination of the co-promotion agreement, we will no longer have rights to co-promote Elestat. We will be entitled to receive post-termination payments from Allergan, based on any remaining net sales of Elestat for a period of 36 months. During the three successive 12-month periods immediately following the termination of the agreement, Allergan will be obligated to pay to us 20%, 15% and 10%, respectively, on any net sales of Elestat in the United States. Subject to applicable law, competitors are permitted to submit to the FDA an ANDA for a generic version of Elestat, due to the expiration of the marketing exclusivity period for Elestat provided under the Hatch-Waxman Act on October 15, 2008. We have been notified that Boehringer Ingelheim and Allergan received notices of Paragraph IV certifications from Apotex, Inc., Cypress Pharmaceutical, Inc., Paddock Laboratories, Inc. and Sandoz Inc. 22 Table of Contents advising that each company filed an ANDA for a generic version of Elestat. Each ANDA notice alleges that the method of treatment patent related to Elestat is invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by the respective ANDA applicant’s manufacture, use, sale, or offer for sale of the drug for which the ANDA was submitted. The date of submission of the first filing to the FDA Office of Generic Drugs was October 14, 2008, according to the FDA’s website (www.fda.gov). In response thereto, Boehringer Ingelheim has filed a statutory disclaimer of all the claims contained in such patent, and accordingly, such patent is unenforceable. The FDA’s review of an ANDA is a confidential process between the FDA and the applicable ANDA filer. We do not expect to be informed by the FDA, any ANDA filer or any other party regarding the status or timing of the review relating to any of the ANDA filings pertaining to a generic form of Elestat. The FDA may complete its review of the filed ANDAs at any time. As a result, we expect to be required to stop the co-promotion of Elestat with little, if any, advance notice. We believe it is likely that a generic form of epinastine may be launched in the second half of 2010. The loss of co-promotion revenue from Elestat will significantly impact our results of operations and cash flows. If we do not successfully market and promote Elestat, our revenues will be negatively impacted. Notwithstanding the expected termination of the Elestat agreement upon the launch of a generic form of Elestat, our present revenues depend, in part, upon the continued acceptance of Elestat by eye care professionals, allergists and patients. Other factors that could affect the commercialization of Elestat include: • Satisfaction with existing alternative therapies, including therapies requiring only one dose per day; • Decreases in the size of the market for topical allergic conjunctivitis products; • Extent and effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • Changes in, or the levels of, third-party reimbursement of product costs; • Coverage and reimbursement under Medicare Part D, state government sponsored plans and commercial plans; • Pricing and availability of alternative products, including generic or over-the-counter products; and • Marketing and sales activities of competitors. We rely on third parties to distribute and sell our products and those third parties may not perform. We are dependent on third parties to perform or assist us in the distribution or sale of AzaSite, and are dependent on third parties, primarily Allergan, to perform or assist us in the distribution and sale of Elestat. We rely on the services of a single source, third-party distributor to deliver AzaSite to our customers. In addition to the physical storage and distribution of AzaSite, this third-party distributor maintains and provides us with information and data with regard to our inventory, AzaSite orders, billings and receivables, chargebacks and returns, among others, on which our accounting estimates are based. If third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties in maximizing the commercial potential of our products, we may be required to hire or expand our own staff and sales force to compete successfully, which may not be possible. If third parties or Allergan do not perform, or assist us in performing these functions, or if there is a delay or interruption in the distribution of our products, it could have an adverse effect on product revenue, accounting estimates and our overall operations. 23 Table of Contents We depend on three pharmaceutical wholesalers for the vast majority of our AzaSite sales in the United States, and the loss of any of these wholesalers would negatively impact our revenues. The prescription drug wholesaling industry in the United States is highly concentrated, with a vast majority of all sales made by three major full-line companies: Cardinal Health, McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen. Greater than 85% of our AzaSite revenues come from sales to these three companies. The loss of any of these wholesalers could have a negative impact on our commercialization of AzaSite. It is also possible that these wholesalers, or others, could decide to change their policies and fees in the future. This could result in or cause us to incur higher product distribution costs, lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing our products. Such alternative methods may not be economically or administratively feasible. Risks Related to Manufacture and Supply If we are unable to contract with third parties for the manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients required for preclinical testing, for the manufacture of drug products for clinical trials, for the large-scale manufacture of any approved products, or for the manufacture of related devices, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our drug products. The manufacturing of sufficient quantities of new products or product candidates is a time-consuming and complex process. We have no experience or capabilities to conduct the manufacture of any of our product candidates. In order to successfully commercialize AzaSite and continue to develop our product candidates, we need to contract or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing services. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under the FDA’s cGMP regulations capable of manufacturing for us or our collaborators. We depend upon third parties for the manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients, finished drug products for clinical trials, and for the manufacture of AzaSite. We expect to depend upon third parties for the large-scale manufacture of commercial quantities of any other approved product. This dependence may adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver such products on a timely and competitive basis. Similarly, our dependence on our partners to arrange for their own supplies of finished drug products may adversely affect our operations and revenues. If we, or our partners, are unable to engage or retain third-party manufacturers on a long-term basis or on commercially acceptable terms, our products may not be commercialized as planned, and the development of our product candidates could be delayed. Under our agreement with the manufacturer of AzaSite, we are required to purchase a minimum number of units of AzaSite annually, regardless of our ability to sell AzaSite. If we are unable to sell the AzaSite that we are required to purchase, our inventory of the product will increase and the shelf life of the inventory will be adversely impacted. In such circumstances, we may be required to make price concessions to sell short-dated product or write-off and dispose of expired product, which may have an adverse affect on our AzaSite profitability. The manufacturing processes for our product candidates have not been validated at the scale required for commercial sales. Delays in scale-up to commercial quantities and any change at the site of manufacture could delay clinical trials, regulatory submissions and ultimately the commercialization of our products. In addition, manufacturing facilities are subject to an FDA inspection to confirm cGMP compliance prior to a product candidate’s potential NDA approval as well as ongoing post-approval FDA inspections to ensure continued compliance with cGMP regulations, over which we have no control. We depend upon a third-party vendor to manufacture the nebulizer used with denufosol with whom we have no supply agreement. This vendor is responsible for managing the manufacturing process of the nebulizer in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements. Any manufacture or regulatory compliance problems 24 Table of Contents related to the manufacture of this device or any failure on the part of the manufacturer to supply the device (including discontinuation of the nebulizer) could delay product development or adversely affect regulatory approvals of denufosol. Reliance on a single party to manufacture and supply either finished product or the bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients for a product or product candidates could adversely affect us. Under our agreements with Allergan, Allergan is responsible for the manufacture and supply of Restasis and Elestat. Allergan relies upon an arrangement with a single third party for the manufacture and supply of active pharmaceutical ingredients, or APIs, for each of Restasis and Elestat. Allergan then completes the manufacturing process to yield finished product. Under our supply agreement with InSite Vision, InSite Vision is responsible for supplying us with azithromycin, the API used in AzaSite. InSite Vision, in turn, relies upon an arrangement with a single third party for the manufacture and supply of such API. We are responsible for producing the finished product form of AzaSite, which is currently manufactured by a single party. There can be no assurance that such manufacturer will be able to continue to produce sufficient quantities of finished product in a timely manner to support the commercialization of AzaSite. In the event a third-party manufacturer is unable to supply Allergan or InSite Vision (as the case may be), if such supply is unreasonably delayed, or if Allergan or our finished product contract partner are unable to complete the manufacturing cycle, sales of the applicable product could be adversely impacted, which would result in a reduction in any applicable product revenue. In addition, if Allergan or the third-party manufacturers do not maintain cGMP compliance, the FDA could require corrective actions or take enforcement actions that could affect production and availability of the applicable product, thus adversely affecting sales. In addition, we rely upon supply agreements with third parties for the manufacture and supply of the bulk APIs for our product candidates for purposes of preclinical testing and clinical trials. We presently depend upon one vendor as the sole manufacturer of our supply of APIs for both Prolacria and denufosol. We have entered into an agreement with such manufacturer to facilitate the transfer of the current denufosol manufacturing technology, including intellectual property, to an additional manufacturer and thus enable a two-supplier strategy for denufosol. However, we have not yet entered into an agreement with a secondary supplier for denufosol. Delays in any aspect of implementing the manufacturing process could cause significant development delays and increased costs. It would be time consuming and costly to identify and qualify new sources for manufacture of APIs or finished products. If our vendors were to terminate our arrangement or fail to meet our supply needs we might be forced to delay our development programs and/or be unable to supply products to the market, which could delay or reduce revenues and result in loss of market share. The third-party vendor that manufactures denufosol and the API related to both Prolacria and Santen’s DE-089 does not presently have the capacity to manufacture the projected commercial quantities of API for these products, if any is approved. Yamasa Corporation manufacturers the clinical supplies of denufosol, and the API (i.e. diquafosol) for Prolacria and Santen’s DE-089. We do not believe that Yamasa presently has the capacity to manufacture the projected commercial quantities of denufosol, or the API for Prolacria and Santen’s DE-089. Although we have agreements with Yamasa for the manufacture of clinical quantities, we do not have agreements with Yamasa for commercial supplies of denufosol or diquafosol and we are in the process of working to establish those agreements. We may not be able to enter into such agreements on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. 25 Table of Contents We are in discussions with another manufacturer for the purpose of establishing a secondary source of commercial supply for denufosol. To facilitate this second manufacturer, we entered into an agreement with Yamasa to acquire access to its manufacturing know-how and processes related to denufosol. Technical transfer of manufacturing capabilities, however, can be difficult. Also, we may not be able to enter into secondary supply arrangements on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. A failure to achieve sufficient commercial supply of denufosol could result in a delay in the launch of the candidate. Furthermore, if the candidate is approved, and depending on market acceptance and other competitive factors, a failure to achieve sufficient commercial supply potentially could adversely affect product sales. In May 2008, Santen filed an application for manufacturing and marketing approval of DE-089 with the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare, which is pending review. Subject to the terms of our agreement with Santen, we are required to supply Santen with its API requirements for DE-089 for commercial use. We do not have manufacturing expertise, capabilities or facilities, and rely on Yamasa to manufacture this API. We are currently in discussions with Yamasa to further assess its ability to increase capacity for the production of the API for DE-089. If Yamasa is unable to timely produce sufficient commercial quantities of the API for each of DE-089 and Prolacria, the launch of each such product candidate following approval, if any, could be delayed. Furthermore, if either DE-089 or Prolacria is approved, and depending on market acceptance and other competitive factors, an insufficient supply of the API for such product following its launch potentially could adversely affect product sales. A reduction in sales likely would reduce royalty income to us associated with each of DE-089 and Prolacria. If we are unable to supply Santen with its API requirements for DE-089 pursuant to the terms of our agreement, Santen may pursue legal or equitable remedies against us. Risks Related to Product Development If the FDA does not conclude that our product candidates meet statutory requirements for safety and efficacy, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for marketing in the United States. We have to conduct significant development activities, non-clinical and clinical tests and obtain regulatory approval before our product candidates can be commercialized. Product candidates that may appear to be promising at early stages of development may not successfully reach the market for a number of reasons. The results of preclinical and clinical testing of our product candidates under development may not necessarily indicate the results that will be obtained from later or more extensive testing. Additionally, companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier clinical trials. Our ongoing clinical trials might be delayed or halted for various reasons, including: • The measure of efficacy of the drug is not statistically significant compared to placebo; • Patients experience severe side effects or serious adverse events during treatment; • Patients die during the clinical trial because their disease is too advanced or because they experience medical problems that may or may not relate to the drug being studied; • Patients do not enroll in the clinical trials at the rate we expect; • We decide to modify the drug or the clinical trial protocol during testing; • Our commercial partners, or future commercial partners, delay, amend or change our development plan or strategy; and • We allocate our limited financial and other resources to other clinical and preclinical programs. Changes in regulatory policy or new regulations as well as clinical investigator misconduct could also result in delays or rejection of our applications for approval of our product candidates. Clinical investigator misconduct that raises questions about the integrity of data in one or more applications (e.g., fraud, bribery, omission of a 26 Table of Contents material fact, gross negligence) could be used by the FDA as grounds to suspend substantive scientific review of all pending marketing applications until the data in question have successfully undergone a validity assessment. Product candidates that fail validity assessments must be withdrawn from FDA review or, if the drug is an approved, marketed product, such product must be removed from the market. Additionally, the introduction of our products in foreign markets will subject us to foreign regulatory clearances, the receipt of which may be unpredictable, uncertain and may impose substantial additional costs and burdens which we or our partners in such foreign markets may be unwilling or unable to fund. As with the FDA, foreign regulatory authorities must be satisfied that adequate evidence of safety and efficacy of the product has been presented before marketing authorization is granted. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA marketing approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by other regulatory authorities, nor does approval by any foreign regulatory authority ensure approval by the FDA. Since some of our clinical candidates utilize new or different mechanisms of action and in some cases there may be no regulatory precedents, conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approval may be difficult, expensive and prolonged, which would delay any commercialization of our products. To complete successful clinical trials, our product candidates must demonstrate safety and provide substantial evidence of efficacy. The FDA generally evaluates efficacy based on the statistical significance of a product candidate meeting predetermined clinical endpoints. The design of clinical trials to establish meaningful endpoints is done in collaboration with the FDA prior to the commencement of clinical trials. We establish these endpoints based on guidance from the FDA, including FDA guidance documents applicable to establishing the efficacy, safety and tolerability measures required for approval of products. However, since some of our product candidates utilize new or different mechanisms of action, the FDA may not have established guidelines for the design of our clinical trials and may take longer than average to consider our product candidates for approval. The FDA could change its view on clinical trial design and establishment of appropriate standards for efficacy, safety and tolerability and require a change in clinical trial design, additional data or even further clinical trials before granting approval of our product candidates. We could encounter delays and increased expenses in our clinical trials if the FDA concludes that the endpoints established for a clinical trial do not adequately predict a clinical benefit. We are developing denufosol as an inhaled product candidate for the treatment of cystic fibrosis. Denufosol tetrasodium is a first-in-class ion channel regulator that addresses the underlying ion transport defect in the lungs of patients with cystic fibrosis. The FDA has not published guidance on the drug approval process associated with such a product candidate. Furthermore, we are not aware of any FDA-approved product that addresses the underlying ion transport defect in the lungs of patients with cystic fibrosis. We cannot predict or guarantee the outcome or timing of our Phase 3 program for denufosol for cystic fibrosis. A significant amount of work will be required to advance denufosol through clinical testing, including satisfactory completion of additional clinical trials and other studies. We may later decide to change the focus or timing of our Phase 3 program. Our TIGER-2 clinical trial for denufosol for cystic fibrosis may not be successful or unexpected safety concerns may emerge that would negatively change the risk/benefit profile for this product candidate. We have initiated a Phase 2 development program to evaluate the use of AzaSite for the treatment of blepharitis. The FDA has not published guidelines on the approval of a product for the treatment of blepharitis. Furthermore, to date, no prescription product has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of blepharitis. The FDA may require that we evaluate the product in relation to different primary and/or secondary clinical endpoints than those being used presently. This may require us to undertake additional Phase 2 clinical trials, which could lead to increased costs and program delays. 27 Table of Contents The FDA has not published guidelines on the approval of a product for the treatment of dry eye disease. In order to gain approval, it will be necessary to undertake at least one additional Phase 3 clinical trial in support of our NDA for Prolacria. There can be no guarantee that any such additional clinical trial would be successful or that the FDA would approve Prolacria even if such additional clinical trial was successful. We may need to develop alternate dosing regimens for our product candidates. In order to achieve broad market acceptance of our product candidates, we may need to develop, alone or with others, alternate dosing regimens and methods for administering our products. For example, in our current clinical trials, denufosol for the treatment of cystic fibrosis is administered by a standard nebulizer three times per day, but clinical data from our TIGER-1 clinical trial indicated that patients in that study administered the drug only 2.7 times per day, on average. Patients may prefer a smaller, more portable device or less frequent dose administration. In addition, we intend that Prolacria will be applied from a vial containing a single day’s dosage of non-preserved medication. Patients may prefer to purchase preserved medication for multiple doses. Neither we nor Allergan have established a plan to develop a multi-dose formulation. Similar challenges may exist in identifying and developing appropriate and convenient dosing and methods of administration for our other product candidates. If the number of doses, or the method of dosing, is not convenient, patients may not use our product. Furthermore, if patients use our products at a dosing level that is less than the dosing level tested in our clinical trials, the drug may not be efficacious or may be less efficacious. In such cases, the patient may look for alternative therapies. Estimated development costs are difficult to project and may change frequently prior to regulatory approval. The number and type of studies that may be required by the FDA, or other regulatory authorities, for a particular compound are based on the compound’s clinical profile compared to existing therapies for the targeted patient population. While all new compounds require standard regulated phases of testing, the actual type and scope of testing can vary significantly among different product candidates and as a result, creates additional complexity when estimating program costs. Factors that affect the costs of a clinical trial include: • The number of patients required to participate in clinical trials to demonstrate statistical significance for a drug’s safety and efficacy and the number and geographical location of clinical trial sites necessary to enroll such patients; • The time required to enroll the targeted number of patients in clinical trials, which may vary depending on the size and availability of the targeted patient population and the perceived benefit to the clinical trial participants; and • The number and type of required laboratory tests supporting clinical trials. Additionally, ongoing development programs and associated costs are subject to frequent, significant and unpredictable changes due to a number of factors, including: • Data collected in preclinical or clinical trials may prompt significant changes, delays or enhancements to an ongoing development program; • Commercial partners and the underlying contractual agreements may require additional or more involved clinical or preclinical activities; • The FDA or other regulatory authorities may direct the sponsor to change or enhance its ongoing development program based on developments in the testing of similar compounds or related compounds; • Unexpected regulatory requirements, changes in regulatory policy or review standards, or interim reviews by regulatory agencies may cause delays or changes to development programs; and 28 Table of Contents • Anticipated manufacturing costs may change significantly due to necessary changes in manufacturing processes, variances from anticipated manufacturing process yields or changes in the cost and/or availability of starting materials, and other costs to ensure the manufacturing facility is in compliance with cGMP requirements and is capable of consistently producing the product candidate in accordance with established specifications submitted to the FDA. The occurrence of any of these factors may result in significant disparities in total costs required to complete the respective development programs. Clinical trials may take longer to complete and cost more than we expect, which would adversely affect our ability to commercialize product candidates and achieve profitability. Clinical trials are expensive and are often lengthy. They require appropriate identification of optimal treatment regimens and relevant patient population, adequate supplies of drug product, and sufficient patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • The size and availability of the relevant patient population; • The nature of the protocol; • The proximity of patients to clinical sites; • The eligibility criteria for the clinical trial; and • The perceived benefit of participating in a clinical trial. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Even if we successfully complete clinical trials, we may not receive regulatory approval for the product candidate. In addition, if the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities require additional clinical trials, we could face increased costs and significant development delays. We are conducting portions of our TIGER-2 clinical trial in Canada, Australia and New Zealand and are therefore subject to the risks and uncertainties of doing business internationally. Disruptions in communication and transportation, changes in governmental policies, and currency exchange rates, among other factors, may affect the time and costs required to complete these clinical trials. If we fail to reach milestones or to make annual minimum payments or otherwise breach our obligations under our license agreements, our licensors may terminate our agreements with them. If we fail to meet payment obligations, performance milestones relating to the timing of regulatory filings, development and commercial diligence obligations, fail to make milestone payments in accordance with applicable provisions, or fail to pay the minimum annual payments under our respective licenses, our licensors may terminate the applicable license. As a result, our development of the respective product candidate or commercialization of the product would cease. Risks Related to Governmental Regulation Failure to comply with all applicable regulations, including those that require us to obtain and maintain governmental approvals for our product candidates, may result in fines, corrective actions, administrative sanctions and restrictions, including the withdrawal of a product from the market. Pharmaceutical companies are subject to significant regulation by a number of local, state, and federal governmental agencies, including the FDA. Such regulations and their authorizing statutes are amended from time to time. There are laws and regulations that govern areas including financial controls, clinical trials, testing, manufacturing, labeling, safety, packaging, shipping, distribution, post-approval safety surveillance, marketing, and promotion of pharmaceuticals, including those governing interactions with prescribers and health care 29 Table of Contents professionals in a position to prescribe, recommend, or arrange for the provision of our products. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in warning letters, fines, corrective actions, administrative sanctions, suspensions or delays of product manufacture or distribution or both, product recalls, delays in marketing activities and sales, withdrawal of marketing approvals, and civil or criminal sanctions including seizure of product, court-ordered injunction, and possible exclusion from eligibility for federal government contracts payment of our products by Medicare, Medicaid, and other third-party payors. After initial regulatory approval, the manufacturing and marketing of drugs, including our products, are subject to continuing FDA and foreign regulatory review. The FDA requires drug manufacturers and distributors to monitor the safety of a drug after it is approved and marketed. We are required to document and investigate reports of adverse events and report serious adverse events to the FDA. Additionally, the FDA encourages health professionals to report significant adverse events associated with products. The FDA may require additional clinical studies, known as Phase 4 studies, to evaluate product safety effects. In addition to studies required by the FDA after approval, we may conduct our own Phase 4 studies to explore the use of the approved drug product for treatment of new indications or to broaden our knowledge of the product. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product’s safety or efficacy as a result of these studies or as reported in their prescribed use may result in restrictions through labeling changes or withdrawal of the product from the market. The FDA periodically inspects drug manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable cGMP regulations. Failure to comply with statutory and regulatory requirements subjects the manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product or court-ordered injunction, which could include mandatory recall of a product. Before taking such actions, the FDA may first issue one or more notices of compliance deficiencies. Such notices include inspectional observations on Form FDA-483, warning letters, and other untitled written correspondence; however, the FDA may also take action without such notice in situations of egregious noncompliance or where public safety is at risk. The FDA may also request us to take actions voluntarily or we may initiate actions ourselves such as recalls or suspension of manufacturing to ensure compliance with cGMP regulations. Additional authority to take post-approval actions was given to the FDA under the FDA Amendments Act of 2007. The FDA is authorized to revisit and change its prior determinations if new information raises questions about our product’s safety profile. The FDA is authorized to impose additional post-marketing requirements which could result in actions such as requiring additional studies, corrective actions, fines, withdrawal of marketing approval, or any combination of such actions. In its regulation of advertising, the FDA may issue correspondence to pharmaceutical companies alleging that its advertising, promotional materials or activities are false or misleading. Pharmaceutical advertising and promotional activity must be true, fairly balanced between benefits and risks, provide adequate risk information, and be within the labeled indications. Drug manufacturers are prohibited from promoting a product for any use that is not on the approved labeling; however, healthcare professionals are free to use the product for any use that, in the judgment of the healthcare professional, may be appropriate for any individual patient. The FDA has the power to impose a wide array of sanctions on companies for advertising practices that it concludes is false or misleading, and, if we were to receive correspondence from the FDA alleging such practices, it may be necessary for us to: • Incur substantial expenses, including fines, penalties, legal fees and costs to conform to the FDA’s limits on such promotion; • Change our methods of marketing, promoting and selling products; • Take corrective action, which could include placing advertisements or sending letters to physicians correcting statements made in previous advertisements or promotions; or • Disrupt the distribution of products and stop sales until we are in compliance with the FDA’s interpretation of applicable laws and regulations. 30 Table of Contents Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation and future legislative or regulatory reform of the health care system may affect our or our partners’ ability to sell products profitably. In both the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the health care system that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 established a voluntary Medicare outpatient prescription drug benefit under Part D of the Social Security Act. The program, which went into effect January 1, 2006, is administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services within the Department of Health and Human Services and is implemented and operated by private sector Part D plan sponsors. Each participating drug plan is permitted by regulation to develop and establish its own unique drug formulary that may exclude certain drugs from coverage and impose prior authorization and other coverage restrictions, and negotiate payment levels with drug manufacturers that may be lower than reimbursement levels available through private health plans or other payers. Moreover, beneficiary co-insurance requirements can vary, which could influence which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. The federal government can be expected to continue to issue guidance and regulations regarding the obligations of Part D sponsors under the program. Allergan is responsible for the implementation of the Medicare Part D program as it relates to Restasis and Elestat and has contracted with Part D plan sponsors to cover such drugs under the Part D benefit. We are responsible for contracting with Part D plan sponsors with respect to AzaSite. There is no assurance that any drug that we co-promote or sell will be covered by drug plans participating under the Medicare Part D program or, if covered, what the terms of any such coverage will be, or that the drugs will be reimbursed at amounts that reflect current or historical payment levels. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the reimbursement changes emerging from Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation or from changes in the formularies or price negotiations with Part D drug plans. To the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow Medicare coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects of lower Medicare payment may be magnified by private insurers adopting similar lower payment. Our products also can be impacted by state and federal legislative and regulatory changes in Medicaid reimbursement policy and in mandated levels of Medicaid drug rebates paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers. Congress is considering proposals as part of health reform that would increase the drug rebate level paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers to Medicaid for brand-name drugs and make other changes that could result in larger pharmaceutical manufacturer rebate obligations. Likewise, many states are facing serious budgetary pressures that could lead to adoption of cost-containment measures, including provisions aimed at reducing Medicaid drug prices. There can be no assurances that new federal or state policies will not increase our rebate obligation or lower Medicaid reimbursement levels for our products. New federal or state drug payment changes or health care reforms in the United States and in foreign countries may be enacted or adopted in the future that could further lower payment for our products. In particular, both the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate approved major health reform plans in late 2009. In addition to increasing Medicaid drug rebate obligations, the legislation generally would require drug manufacturers to provide a discount on brand-name prescriptions filled in the Medicare Part D “coverage gap”; expand comparative effectiveness research programs, and expand disclosure requirements regarding drug manufacturer financial arrangements with referring physicians. The House version of the bill also would establish a public health insurance program to compete with private insurance companies, which could increase competitive pressures in the private insurance market that ultimately could impact prescription drug reimbursement. The House bill also would require the HHS Secretary to negotiate Medicare Part D drug prices directly with pharmaceutical manufacturers, and it would bar agreements between brand name and generic drug manufacturers that delay competition from generic drugs. The Senate bill would impose a $2.3 billion annual fee on the pharmaceutical manufacturing sector, generally allocated according to market share. To date Congress has not reached agreement on a single reform plan, so it is uncertain at this time whether a bill will be enacted in the near future and, if so, the scope of the provisions that will be included or the impact on us. There can be no 31 Table of Contents assurances, that enactment of health reform legislation would not have an adverse impact on reimbursement and/or coverage of our products. Likewise, the potential for adoption of health care reform or other cost-control proposals on a state-by-state basis could impact our reimbursement levels and require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. Congress also has enacted the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which included a major expansion of federal efforts to compare the effectiveness of different medical treatments, including pharmaceuticals, which eventually could impact Medicare and private payer coverage and payment policies. The federal government may consider additional proposals that could lead to reimbursement constraints and restrictions on access to certain products. We cannot predict the outcome of such initiatives, and it is difficult to predict the impact on our business of future legislative and regulatory changes. We are subject to “fraud and abuse” and similar government laws and regulations, and a failure to comply with such laws and regulations, or an investigation into our compliance with such laws and regulations, or a failure to prevail in any litigation related to noncompliance, could harm our business. We are subject to multiple state and federal laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse. Pharmaceutical pricing, sales, and marketing programs and arrangements, and related business practices in the health care industry generally are under increasing scrutiny from federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial, and administrative entities. Many health care laws, including the federal and state anti-kickback laws and federal and state statutory and common law false claims laws, have been construed broadly by the courts and permit government entities to exercise considerable discretion. In the event that any of these government entities believed that wrongdoing had occurred, one or more of them could institute civil, administrative, or criminal proceedings which, if instituted and resolved unfavorably, could subject us to substantial fines, penalties, and injunctive and administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs. We cannot predict whether investigations or enforcement actions would affect our marketing or sales practices. Any such result could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and our business. Such investigations and enforcement actions could be costly, divert management’s attention from our business, and result in damage to our reputation. We cannot guarantee that measures that we have taken to prevent violations, including our corporate compliance program, will protect us from future violations, lawsuits or investigations by governmental entities or private whistleblowers. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant negative impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. Congress also is considering new and expanded federal fraud authorities as part of health reform legislative efforts. We cannot predict at this time whether health reform legislation will be enacted and, if so, the extent of new fraud authorities that would be adopted, if any, or the potential impact on our business. Failure to adequately ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations may subject us to whistleblower and government actions. In recent years, pharmaceutical companies have been the targets of extensive whistleblower actions in which the person bringing the action alleges violations of the federal civil False Claims Act or its state equivalent, including allegations that manufacturers aided and abetted in the submission of false claims. These actions have focused on such areas as pricing practices, off-label product promotion, sales and marketing practices, and improper relationships with physicians and other health care professionals, among others. If our relationships with health care professionals and/or our promotional or other activities fail to comply with applicable laws, regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, regulatory and other federal or state governmental authorities. The potential ramifications are far-reaching if there are areas identified as out of compliance by regulatory agencies and governmental authorities including, but not limited to, significant financial penalties, manufacturing and clinical trial consent decrees, commercialization restrictions, exclusion from government programs, product recalls or seizures, the imposition of corporate integrity 32 Table of Contents agreements and deferred prosecution agreements, or other restrictions and litigation. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to a whistleblower or other state or federal investigative or enforcement action at some time in the future. Even an unsuccessful challenge to our operations or activities could prove costly and divert management’s attention. Risks Associated with Our Business and Industry If we do not receive timely regulatory approvals of our product candidates and successfully launch such products, we may need substantial additional funds to support our expanding capital requirements. We have used substantial amounts of cash to fund our research and development and commercial activities. Our operating expenses were approximately $129.8 million and $120.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled approximately $129.1 million on December 31, 2009. Based on current operating plans, we expect our cash and investments to provide liquidity beyond 2010. We expect that our capital and operating expenditures will continue to exceed our revenue over the next several years as we conduct our research and development and commercial activities. Many factors will influence our future capital requirements, including: • The number, breadth and progress of our research and development programs; • The level of activities relating to commercialization of our products; • The ability to attract collaborators for our products and establish and maintain those relationships; • Achievement of milestones under our existing or future collaborations and licensing agreements; • Progress by our collaborators with respect to the development of product candidates; • Competing technological and market developments; • The timing and terms of any business development activities; • The timing and amount of debt repayment requirements; • The costs involved in defending any litigation claims against us; • The costs involved in responding to government, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., or other applicable investigations against us; and • The costs involved in enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights. In addition, our capital requirements will depend upon: • The level of sales generated for AzaSite, Restasis and Elestat; • The receipt of revenue from Allergan on net sales of Restasis and Elestat; • The receipt of revenue from wholesalers and other customers on net sales of AzaSite; • The receipt or payment of milestone payments under our current collaborative agreements and any future collaborations; • The ability to obtain approval from the FDA for our product candidates; and • Payments from existing and future collaborators. In the event that we do not receive timely regulatory approvals, we may need substantial additional funds to fully develop, manufacture, market and sell all of our other potential products and support our on-going product 33 Table of Contents commercialization and co-promotion efforts. We may seek such additional funding through public or private equity offerings and debt financings. Additional financing may not be available when needed. If available, such financing may not be on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. Our stockholders’ ownership will be diluted if we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities. If we are required to raise funds through future collaborations and licensing arrangements, we may have to give up rights to our technologies or product candidates or grant licenses on unfavorable terms. If adequate funds are not available, we would have to scale back or terminate research programs and product development and we may not be able to successfully commercialize any product candidate. Our co-promotion and royalty revenues are based, in part, upon Allergan’s revenue recognition policy and other accounting policies over which we have limited or no control. We recognize co-promotion revenue based on Allergan’s net sales of Elestat and royalty revenue based on Allergan’s net sales of Restasis, as defined in the co-promotion agreements and as reported to us by Allergan. Accordingly, our co-promotion and royalty revenues are based upon Allergan’s revenue recognition policy and other accounting policies over which we have limited or no control and the underlying terms of our co-promotion agreements. Allergan’s filings with the SEC indicate that Allergan maintains disclosure controls and procedures in accordance with applicable laws, which are designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be reported by Allergan in its Exchange Act filings is reported timely and in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. We are not entitled to review Allergan’s disclosure controls and procedures. All of our co-promotion and royalty revenues are currently derived from Allergan’s net sales of Restasis and Elestat as reported to us by Allergan. We are unable to provide complete assurance that Allergan will not revise reported revenue amounts in the future. If Allergan’s reported revenue amounts were inaccurate, it could have a material impact on our financial statements, including financial statements for previous periods. Revenues in future periods could vary significantly and may not cover our operating expenses. Our revenues may fluctuate from period to period due in part to: • The timing of the introduction of a generic form of Elestat; • Fluctuations in future sales of AzaSite, Restasis and Elestat due to competition, the intensity of an allergy season, disease prevalence, manufacturing difficulties, reimbursement and pricing under commercial or government plans, seasonality, or other factors that affect the sales of a product; • Deductions from gross sales relating to estimates of sales returns, credits and allowances, normal trade and cash discounts, managed care sales rebates and other allocated costs; • The duration of market exclusivity of AzaSite and Restasis; • The timing of approvals, if any, for other possible future products; • The progress toward and the achievement of developmental milestones by us or our partners; • The initiation of new contractual arrangements with other companies; and • The failure or refusal of a collaborative partner to pay royalties or milestone payments. Inventory levels of AzaSite held by wholesalers can also cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly. Although we attempt to monitor wholesaler inventory of our products, we rely upon information provided by third parties to quantify the inventory levels maintained by wholesalers. In addition, we and the wholesalers may not be effective in matching inventory levels to end-user demand. Significant differences between actual and estimated inventory levels and product demand may result in inadequate or excessive (1) inventory production, (2) product supply in distribution channels, (3) product availability at the retail level, and (4) unexpected increases or decreases in orders from our major customers. Any of these events may cause our revenues to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and in some cases may cause our operating results for a particular quarter to be below expectations. 34 Table of Contents If we are unable to make the scheduled principal and interest payments on our term loan facility or maintain minimum liquidity levels or compliance with other debt covenants as defined in the loan and security agreement, we may default on our debt. Our $60.0 million term loan facility is collateralized by substantially all of our assets, except for our intellectual property, but including all accounts, license and royalty fees and other revenues and proceeds arising from our intellectual property. Under the agreement, we are required to maintain minimum liquidity levels based on the balance of the outstanding advances. The agreement also includes a subjective acceleration clause that provides our lenders with the ability to accelerate repayment, even if we are in compliance with all conditions of the agreement, upon a material adverse change to our business, properties, assets, financial condition or results of operations. The agreement may affect our operations in several ways, including the following: • A portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our indebtedness; • Our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; • We may need to raise additional capital in order to remain in compliance with the loan covenants; • Our ability to enter into certain transactions (including incurrences of indebtedness) may be limited; and • We may need to delay or reduce planned expenditures for clinical trials as well as other development and commercial activities if our current operations are not sufficient enough to service our debt. Events of default under the loan and security agreement are not limited to, but include the following: • Payment default; • Covenant default; • A material adverse change in our business operations; • Breach of our agreements with Allergan; and • Judgments against us over a specified dollar amount. In case of an uncured default, the following actions may be taken against us by the lending institutions: • All outstanding obligations associated with the term loan facility would be immediately due and payable; • Any of our balances and deposits held by the lending institutions would be applied to the obligation; • Balances and accounts at other financial institutions could be “held” or exclusive control could be transferred to the lending institutions; and • All collateral, as defined in the agreement, could be seized and disposed of. If we continue to incur operating losses for a period longer than anticipated, or in an amount greater than anticipated, we may be unable to continue our operations. We have experienced significant losses since inception. We incurred net operating losses of approximately $40.0 million and $51.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was approximately $400.4 million. We currently expect to incur operating losses over the next several years. We expect that losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and that such fluctuations may be substantial. Such fluctuations will be affected by the timing and level of the following: • Commercialization activities to support AzaSite and Elestat; • Revenues from Restasis; • Regulatory approvals of our product candidates; 35 Table of Contents • Patient demand for our products and any licensed products; • Payments to and from licensors and corporate partners; • Research and development activities; • Investments in new technologies and product candidates; and • The costs involved in defending any litigation claims against, or government investigations of, us. To achieve and sustain profitable operations, we must, alone or with others, develop successfully, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and sell our products. The time frame necessary to achieve market success is long and uncertain. We may not generate sufficient product revenues to become profitable or to sustain profitability. If the time required to achieve profitability is longer than we anticipate, we may not be able to continue our operations. The current stock market and credit market conditions are extremely volatile and unpredictable. It is difficult to predict whether these conditions will continue or worsen, and, if so, whether the conditions would impact us and whether such impact could be material. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, including commercial banks, investment banks and customers (which include wholesalers, managed care organizations and governments) that may be unstable or may become unstable in the current economic environment. Any such instability may impact these parties’ ability to fulfill contractual obligations to us or they might limit or place burdensome conditions upon future transactions with us. Customers may also reduce spending during times of economic uncertainty. Also, it is possible that suppliers may be negatively impacted. If such events were to occur, there could be a resulting material and adverse impact on our operations and results of operations. We may decide to access the equity or debt markets to meet capital or liquidity needs. However, the constriction and volatility in these markets may restrict our future flexibility to do so when such needs arise. Further, recent economic conditions have resulted in severe downward pressure on the stock and credit markets, which could reduce the return available on invested corporate cash, which if severe and sustained could have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Our dependence on collaborative relationships may lead to delays in product development, lost revenues and disputes over rights to technology. Our business strategy depends to some extent upon the formation of research collaborations, licensing and/or marketing arrangements. We currently have collaboration agreements with several collaborators, including Allergan, InSite Vision and Santen. The termination of any collaboration will result in the loss of any unmet development or commercial milestone payments, may lead to delays in product development and disputes over technology rights, and may reduce our ability to enter into collaborations with other potential partners. In the event we breach an agreement with a collaborator, the collaborator is entitled to terminate our agreement with them in the event we do not cure the breach within a specified period of time, which is typically 60 or 90 days from the notice date. With respect to the Allergan collaboration, in the event we become an affiliate of a third party that manufactures, markets or sells any then currently promoted prescription ophthalmic product, Allergan will have the right to terminate our Elestat co-promotion agreement, which right must be exercised within 3 months of the occurrence of such event. If we do not maintain our current collaborations, or establish additional research and development collaborations or licensing arrangements, it will be difficult to develop and commercialize potential products. Any future collaborations or licensing arrangements may not be on terms favorable to us. Our current or any future collaborations or licensing arrangements ultimately may not be successful. Under our current strategy, and for the foreseeable future, we do not expect to develop or market products outside North 36 Table of Contents America without a collaborative partner or outside our therapeutic areas of focus. We are currently pursuing the out-licensing of certain rights related to our cystic fibrosis program. We may be unsuccessful in out-licensing this program or we may be forced to out-license this program on terms that are not favorable to us. It may be necessary in the future for us to obtain additional licenses to avoid infringement of third-party patents. Additionally, we may enter into license arrangements with other third parties as we build our product portfolio. We do not know the terms on which such licenses may be available, if at all. We will continue to depend on collaborators and contractors for the preclinical study and clinical development of therapeutic products and for manufacturing and marketing of potential products. Our agreements with collaborators typically allow them some discretion in electing whether to pursue such activities. If any collaborator were to breach or terminate its agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct collaborative activities in a timely and successful manner, the clinical development or commercialization of product candidates or research programs would be delayed or terminated. Any delay or termination in clinical development or commercialization would delay or eliminate potential product revenues relating to our product candidates. Disputes may arise in the future over the ownership of rights to any technology developed with collaborators. These and other possible disagreements between us and our collaborators could lead to delays in the collaborative development or commercialization of products. Such disagreements could also result in litigation or require arbitration to resolve. Failure to hire and retain key personnel may hinder our product development programs and our business efforts. We depend on the principal members of management and scientific staff, including Adrian Adams, our President and Chief Executive Officer and a director, and Thomas R. Staab, II, our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. If these people leave us, we may have difficulty conducting our operations. Other than Mr. Adams, with whom we have an employment agreement, we have not entered into agreements with any other officers or any other members of our management and scientific staff that bind them to a specific period of employment. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract, hire or appoint, and retain additional personnel skilled or experienced in the pharmaceutical industry. There is significant competition for such qualified personnel and we may not be able to attract and retain such personnel. We may not be able to successfully compete with other biotechnology companies and established pharmaceutical companies. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. There are many companies seeking to develop products for the same indications that we are working on. Our competitors in the United States and elsewhere are numerous and include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies and specialized biotechnology firms. Most of these competitors have greater resources than we do, including greater financial resources, larger research and development staffs and more experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations. In addition, most of our competitors have greater experience than we do in conducting clinical trials and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for product candidates more rapidly than we do. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals, and commence commercial sale of their drugs before we do may achieve a significant competitive advantage, including patent and FDA marketing exclusivity rights that would delay our ability to market products. Drugs resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with our collaborative partners, may not compete successfully with competitors’ existing products or products under development. 37 Table of Contents Our competitors may also develop technologies and drugs that are safer, more effective, or less costly than any we are developing or which would render our technology and future drugs obsolete and non-competitive. In addition, alternative approaches, such as gene therapy, in treating diseases that we have targeted, such as cystic fibrosis, may make our product candidates obsolete. If our intellectual property protection is inadequate, the development and any possible sales of our product candidates could suffer or competitors could force our products completely out of the market. Our business and competitive position depends on our ability to continue to develop and protect our products and processes, proprietary methods and technology and to prevent others from infringing on our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, we or our applicable collaborative partners may lose a significant portion of sales of that product in a short period of time as other companies manufacture generic forms of the previously protected product or manufacture similar products at lower cost, without having had to incur significant research and development costs in formulating the product. Therefore, our future financial success may depend in part on our and our partners obtaining patent protection for technologies incorporated into our products. We cannot assure that such patents will be issued, or that any existing or future patents will be of commercial benefit. In addition, it is impossible to anticipate the breadth or degree of protection that any such patents will afford, and we cannot assure that any such patents will not be successfully challenged in the future. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining or preserving patent protection, or if any of our products rely on unpatented proprietary technology, we cannot assure that others will not commercialize products substantially identical to those products. We also believe that the protection of our trademarks is an important factor in product recognition and in our ability to maintain or increase market share. If we do not adequately protect our rights in our various trademarks from infringement, their value to us could be lost or diminished, seriously impairing our competitive position. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Certain of our patents are use patents containing claims covering methods of treating disorders and diseases by administering therapeutic chemical compounds. Use patents may provide limited protection for commercial efforts in the United States, but may afford a lesser degree of protection, if any, in other countries due to their patent laws. Besides our use patents, we have patents and patent applications covering compositions (new chemical compounds), pharmaceutical formulations and processes for manufacturing our new chemical compounds. Many of the chemical compounds included in the claims of our use patents and process applications were known in the scientific community prior to our patent applications. None of our composition patents or patent applications covers these previously known chemical compounds, which are in the public domain. As a result, competitors may be able to commercialize products that use the same previously known chemical compounds used by us for the treatment of disorders and diseases not covered by our use patents. Such competitors’ activities may reduce our revenues. Third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates or technologies at any time. If we must defend a patent suit, or if we choose to initiate a suit to have a third-party patent declared invalid, we may need to make considerable expenditures of money and management time in litigation. We believe that there is significant litigation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. A patent does not provide the patent holder with freedom to operate in a way that infringes the patent rights of others. We may be accused of patent infringement at any time. A judgment against us in a patent infringement action could cause us to pay monetary damages, require us to obtain licenses, or prevent us from manufacturing or marketing the affected products. In addition, we may need to initiate litigation to enforce our proprietary rights against others. Initiation of litigation may result in considerable expenditures of money and management time and may result in our patents being declared invalid. Further, we may need to participate in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, to determine the priority of invention of any of our technologies. 38 Table of Contents Our ability to develop sufficient patent rights in our pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology products to support commercialization efforts is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. For instance, the USPTO examiners may not allow our claims in examining our patent applications. If we have to appeal a decision to the USPTO’s Appeals Board for a final determination of patentability, we could incur significant legal fees. Lengthy and uncertain patent prosecutions, including the utilization of the appeals process, can add uncertainty, delay and expense to the process of obtaining intellectual property rights for our products, and as such may add delay and uncertainty to the development program for any such product. Use of our products may result in product liability claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Manufacturing, marketing and sale of our products or conducting clinical trials of our product candidates may expose us to liability claims from the use of those products and product candidates. Product liability claims could result in the imposition of substantial liability on us, a recall of products, or a change in the indications for which they may be used. Although we carry product liability insurance and clinical trial liability insurance, we, or our collaborators, may not maintain sufficient insurance to cover these potential claims. We do not have the financial resources to self-insure and it is unlikely that we will have these financial resources in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to protect against potential product liability claims adequately, we may find it difficult or impossible to continue to commercialize our products or the product candidates we develop. If claims or losses exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may go out of business. Insurance coverage is increasingly more costly and difficult to obtain or maintain. While we currently have insurance for our business, property, directors and officers, and our products, insurance is increasingly more costly and narrower in scope, and we may be required to assume more risk in the future. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage in excess of our insurance coverage, we will be required to share that risk in excess of our insurance limits. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage that is outside of our insurance coverage, we may incur significant uninsured costs associated with loss or damage that could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial position. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may impact our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs or at all. Risks Related to Our Stock Our common stock price has been volatile and your investment in our stock may decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. These fluctuations create a greater risk of capital losses for our stockholders as compared to less volatile stocks. Factors that have caused volatility and could cause additional volatility in the market price of our common stock include among others: • Announcements made by us concerning results of clinical trials with our product candidates; • Announcements regarding the commercialization of AzaSite; • Announcements regarding FDA approval of Prolacria, denufosol or any of our product candidates; • Market acceptance and market share of AzaSite, Restasis and Elestat; • The timing of the introduction of a generic form of Elestat; • Duration of market exclusivity of AzaSite and Restasis; • Volatility in other securities including pharmaceutical and biotechnology securities; • Changes in government regulations; 39 Table of Contents • Regulatory actions and/or investigations; • Changes in the development priorities of our collaborators that result in changes to, or termination of, our agreements with such collaborators; • Developments concerning proprietary rights including patents by us or our competitors; • Variations in our operating results; • FDA approval of other treatments for the same indication as any one of our product candidates; • Business development activities; and • Litigation. Extreme price and volume fluctuations occur in the stock market from time to time that can particularly affect the prices of biotechnology companies. These extreme fluctuations are sometimes unrelated to the actual performance of the affected companies. Warburg is able to exercise substantial control over our business. Warburg Pincus Private Equity IX, L.P., or Warburg, holds 22,907,488 shares of our common stock, which represented approximately 28% of our outstanding common stock as of January 31, 2010. Warburg and its affiliates may acquire the lesser of: (x) 32.5% of our voting securities on a fully diluted basis and (y) 34.9% of our then outstanding voting securities, without triggering the provisions of our stockholder rights plan. Warburg has the right to designate one person for election to our Board of Directors for so long as Warburg owns a significant percentage of our securities. Pursuant to this right, Jonathan S. Leff serves as a Class C member of the Board of Directors. Pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement, dated July 17, 2007, for so long as Warburg owns at least 10% of the shares of common stock issued upon the exchange of Exchangeable Preferred Stock it acquired in July 2007, it will have subscription rights to acquire a pro rata amount of future issuances of equity securities by us, subject to certain exceptions. As a result of the foregoing, Warburg is able to exercise substantial influence over our business, policies and practices. Our existing principal stockholders hold a substantial amount of our common stock and may be able to influence significant corporate decisions, which may conflict with the interest of other stockholders. As of January 31, 2010, our current 5% and greater stockholders (which includes Warburg) and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 42% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they act together, may be able to influence the outcome of matters requiring approval of the stockholders, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions such as: • a merger or corporate combination with or into another company; • a sale of substantially all of our assets; and • amendments to our certificate of incorporation. The decisions of these individual stockholders may conflict with our interests or those of our other stockholders. Future sales and issuances of securities may dilute the ownership interests of our current stockholders and cause our stock price to decline. Future sales of our common stock by current stockholders into the public market could cause the market price of our stock to fall. As of January 31, 2010, there were 82,350,770 shares of our common stock outstanding. In addition, after deducting the $115 million of common stock sold in August 2009, we retain the 40 Table of Contents ability to issue and may in the future issue, up to an additional $15 million of securities, including common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, depositary shares and securities warrants, from time to time at prices and on terms to be determined at the time of sale remaining under an active shelf registration statement, which we filed with the SEC on March 9, 2007. Furthermore, we may from time to time issue securities in relation to a license arrangement, collaboration, merger or acquisition. Up to 16,178,571 shares of our common stock are issuable upon the release of restricted stock units and/or exercise of stock options that have been, or stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards and restricted stock units that may be, issued pursuant to our Amended and Restated 1995 Stock Plan, our Amended and Restated 2005 Equity Compensation Plan and the Executive Employment Agreement, dated February 18, 2010, between Inspire and Mr. Adams. The shares underlying existing stock options and restricted stock units and possible future stock options, stock appreciation rights and stock awards have been registered pursuant to registration statements on Form S-8. If some or all of such shares are sold or otherwise issue into the public market over a short period of time, our current stockholders’ ownership interests may be diluted and the value of all publicly traded shares is likely to decline, as the market may not be able to absorb those shares at then-current market prices. Additionally, such sales and issuances may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that our management deems acceptable, or at all. Our Rights Agreement, the provisions of our Change in Control Severance Benefit Plans, the anti-takeover provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and Amended and Restated Bylaws, standstill agreements, and our right to issue preferred stock, may discourage a third party from making a take-over offer that could be beneficial to us and our stockholders and may make it difficult for stockholders to replace our Board of Directors and effect a change in our management if they desire to do so. In October 2002, we entered into a Rights Agreement with Computershare Trust Company. The Rights Agreement could discourage, delay or prevent a person or group from acquiring 15% or more of our common stock. The Rights Agreement provides that if a person acquires 15% or more of our common stock without the approval of our Board of Directors, all other stockholders will have the right to purchase securities from us at a price that is less than its fair market value, which would substantially reduce the value of our common stock owned by the acquiring person. As a result, our Board of Directors has significant discretion to approve or disapprove a person’s efforts to acquire 15% or more of our common stock. In connection with the transaction with Warburg, we and Computershare entered into a First Amendment to Rights Agreement which provides that Warburg and its affiliates will be exempt from the definition of an “Acquiring Person” under the Rights Agreement, unless Warburg or certain of its affiliates becomes the beneficial owner of the lesser of: (x) 32.5% of our voting securities on a fully diluted basis and (y) 34.9% of our then outstanding voting securities. In addition to Warburg’s ability to exercise substantial control over our business, the First Amendment to Rights Agreement could further discourage, delay or prevent a person or group from acquiring 15% or more of our common stock. As part of the same transaction with Warburg, we entered into a standstill agreement, dated July 20, 2007, pursuant to which Warburg and certain of its affiliates agreed for three years not to increase their holdings of our common stock beyond the levels described above in the First Amendment to Rights Agreement. On August 4, 2009, we amended the standstill agreement to extend its term until August 4, 2012. Our employees are covered under Change in Control Severance Benefit Plans which provide severance benefits in the event of a change of control that occurs prior to July 8, 2010, and in the event they are terminated after a change in control occurring on or after July 8, 2010. In addition, Mr. Adam’s Executive Employment Agreement provides for severance benefits in the event of a change of control. These arrangements would increase the acquisition costs to a purchasing company that triggers the change in control provisions and as a result, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. 41 Table of Contents Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions which could discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring shares of our common stock or replacing members of our Board of Directors. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, allows our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors can determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. As a result, our Board of Directors could make it difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Since management is appointed by the Board of Directors, any inability to effect a change in the Board of Directors may result in the entrenchment of management. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, also provides that the members of the Board will be divided into three classes. Each year, the terms of approximately one-third of the directors will expire. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws include director nomination procedures and do not permit our stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders. The staggering of directors’ terms of office, the director nomination procedures and the inability of stockholders to call a special meeting may make it difficult for stockholders to remove or replace the Board of Directors should they desire to do so. The director nomination requirements include a provision that requires stockholders give advance notice to our Secretary of any nominations for director or other business to be brought by stockholders at any stockholders’ meeting. Our directors may be removed from our Board of Directors only for cause. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent changes of control or management, either by third parties or by stockholders seeking to change control or management. In the ordinary course of our business, from time to time we discuss possible collaborations, licenses and other transactions with various third parties, including pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. When we deem it appropriate, we enter into standstill agreements with such third parties in relation to the discussions. These standstill agreements, several of which are currently in force, typically prohibit such parties from acquiring our securities for a period of time. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a take-over offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. In connection with our prior sale of stock to Warburg, we agreed to waive Warburg’s acquisition of securities from the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report on Form 10-K, including the documents that we incorporate by reference, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. Any statements about our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance are not historical facts and may be forward-looking. These statements are often, but not always, made through the use of words or phrases such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “plan,” “project,” “continuing,” “believe,” “expect,” “future” and “intend” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by any forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the risk factors listed above and those relating to product development, revenue and earnings expectations, intellectual property rights and litigation, competitive products, results of clinical trials, the need for additional research and testing, 42 Table of Contents delays in manufacturing, funding and the timing and content of decisions made by regulatory authorities, including the FDA and other factors presented throughout this annual report and any other documents filed by us with the SEC. In light of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties, the results and events discussed in the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K or in any document incorporated by reference might not occur. Stockholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only of the date of this report or the date of the document incorporated by reference in this document. We are not under any obligation, and we expressly disclaim any obligation, to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or to any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments On December 10, 2009, we received a comment letter from the staff of the SEC with respect to our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and our Proxy Statement filed March 26, 2009. We responded to the SEC’s comments on February 1, 2010, and received two follow-up comments from the SEC on March 11, 2010, regarding a tabular summary of various patent information and asking for confirmation that the Compensation Discussion and Analysis to be contained in our upcoming proxy statement will discuss the factors considered by our Compensation Committee in evaluating the portion of the bonuses to our named executive officers that were based on individual contributions. On March 12, 2010, we submitted a response to the SEC that we believe addresses their comments. However, this has not been confirmed by the SEC. 