Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks are not the only ones facing us. Our business operations could also be impaired by additional risks and uncertainties. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock and any other securities we may issue in the future could decline significantly. Risks Related to Our Business Our business, operations, and reputation could be materially adversely affected by a failure to comply with the Stipulated Order. In February 2006, we reached a settlement with the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) resolving an FTC investigation into our compliance with federal laws governing consumer information security and related issues, including certain fraudulent data access incidents. The resulting Stipulated Final Judgment and Order for Civil Penalties, Permanent Injunction, and Other Equitable Relief (the “Stipulated Order”), required us to pay a $10 million civil penalty and a consumer redress payment of $5 million. Our failure to adequately comply with the Stipulated Order could lead to further civil penalties, which could adversely affect our business, operations and reputation. The Stipulated Order also required us to institutionalize a number of information security, verification and credentialing, audit and compliance, reporting and record retention practices. We are also required to obtain every two years until 2026, an assessment from a qualified, independent third-party professional to ensure that our information security program meets the standards of the Stipulated Order. We have implemented certain operational enhancements and are pursuing additional measures designed to comply with the Stipulated Order. We rely on relatively few customers for a significant portion of our revenues and profits and we have few long-term customer agreements. Our failure to renew agreements with major customers or enter into agreements with new customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many of our businesses, including our Insurance Services service group, receive a large portion of their revenue from relatively few customers. These major customers are relatively large enterprises, such as insurance companies, banks and retailers. As a result, many of our customers and potential customers are significantly larger than we are and may have sufficient bargaining power to demand reduced prices and favorable nonstandard terms. In addition, we have few long-term agreements with our customers. Although management believes that the quality of our products and services should permit us to maintain good relationships with our 7 Table of Contents customers, we may not be able to do so. Any loss of a significant number of major customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. The acquisition or consolidation of our customers by another company could decrease the demand for products and services. After consolidation, these companies may reorganize management responsibilities or strategic and purchasing decisions that could adversely affect demand for our products and services. We may lose business relationships with key contacts within a customer’s organization due to budget cuts, layoffs, or other changes resulting from an acquisition or consolidation. The consolidation of companies also may alter the technological infrastructure of the combined entity, and our products and services may not be compatible with the new technological system. A downturn in the insurance industry or the economy generally could harm our financial condition and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 53% of our service revenue was derived from our Insurance Services segment. A downturn in the insurance industry could result in a decline in revenue from this business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. An additional 26% of our service revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007, was derived from our Screening and Authentication Services service group, the success of which largely depends on our customers’ hiring activity. We experienced decreased hiring activity during 2007 among certain customers of this business, particularly those in the retail industry. A general economic downturn could result in our customers further delaying or decreasing their hiring activity, leading to reduced demand for the products and services offered by our Screening and Authentication Services business. A softening of demand for information services offered by our other businesses caused by a weakening of the economy generally may result in decreased revenues or lower growth rates. A portion of our business depends on government contracts, which are subject to immediate termination, and the termination of these contracts could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our customers include federal, state and local governments. Government business is subject to many unique risks, such as delays in funding, reduction or modification of contracts or subcontracts, failure to exercise options, changes in government policies, and the imposition of budgetary restraints. A loss of government contract revenues also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The termination of funding for a government program for which we are the prime contractor or a major subcontractor would result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, the termination of a program or failure to commit funds to a prospective program or a program already started could increase our overall costs of doing business. Generally, government contracts contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the government’s convenience upon the payment of compensation only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Although we are not aware of any such impending termination for convenience, one or more of our government contracts could be terminated under these circumstances and we may be unable to procure new government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of any such termination. As our revenues depend in part on our procurement, performance and payment under such government contracts, the loss of one or more large government contracts could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to successfully manage our relationships with third party information suppliers would have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely extensively upon data from external sources to maintain our proprietary and non-proprietary databases, and our operations depend upon information derived from a wide variety of automated and manual 8 Table of Contents sources. Data is obtained from public filings, information companies, governmental authorities, competitors, and customers. Agreements with data suppliers are generally short-term agreements. The loss of data supply sources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Some suppliers are also competitors, which may make us vulnerable to unpredictable price increases and may cause some suppliers not to renew certain agreements. However, such a termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations if we were unable to arrange for substitute sources in a timely manner or at all. We currently maintain databases that contain information provided and used by insurance underwriters. We do not own the information in these databases, and the participating organizations could discontinue contributing information to the databases. If this information was withheld, our business, financial position, and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We use social security numbers to generate certain reports. Social security numbers could become unavailable in the future because of changes in the law or because data suppliers decide not to supply them. If this information cannot be obtained in the future, we would be unable to generate reports as efficiently. Although names, addresses and dates of birth are used to generate reports, without the use of social security numbers, we believe that those reports would not be as complete or as accurate as the reports generated with social security numbers. We also would incur significant expense to revise the software used to generate reports. Less complete or less accurate reports could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. We obtain the credit header data in our databases from consumer credit reporting agencies. The data consists of names, addresses, social security numbers and dates of birth. Any of these suppliers could stop supplying this data or could substantially increase their prices. Withholding this data could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. We are subject to significant competition in many of the markets in which we compete. Many of the markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and are expected to remain highly competitive. In each of the markets served, we compete on the basis of price, quality, customer service and product and service selection. Our competitive position in various market segments depends upon the relative strength of competitors in the segment and the resources devoted to competing in that segment. Due to their size, certain competitors may be able to allocate greater resources to a particular market segment than we can. As a result, these competitors may be in a better position to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences, emerging technologies and market trends. In addition, new competitors and alliances may emerge to take market share away. We may be unable to maintain or strengthen our competitive position in our market segments, especially against larger competitors. We may incur additional costs to upgrade systems in order to compete (see Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”). If we fail to successfully compete, our business, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot be certain that we can continue to attract and retain sufficient qualified management, technical, sales, or other personnel necessary to conduct our business successfully. The resignation, retirement, death or disability of the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Officer and the inability to sufficiently replace either position could adversely affect our business. Our business, results of operations and reputation could be materially adversely affected by systems interruptions. System interruptions could delay and disrupt our products and services, cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. We depend heavily upon computer systems, most of which are 9 Table of Contents located in Alpharetta, Georgia and Boca Raton, Florida, to provide reliable, uninterrupted service. Certain events beyond our control, such as fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, power losses and telecommunications failures, could damage computer networks and temporarily or permanently interrupt services to customers. The systems in Boca Raton, Florida are particularly susceptible to hurricanes. These interruptions also may interfere with suppliers’ ability to provide data and employees’ ability to attend work and perform their responsibilities. Our direct marketing products and services are subject to certain risks. Our direct marketing products and services could be vulnerable to the following risks: • development of other methods of sales and advertising that are more effective than direct marketing; • changes in laws and regulations relating to data privacy, in particular, telephone solicitation and email privacy; • increases in postal rates or disruption in the availability of postal services that could increase the cost of direct mail production and processing and reduce demand for information among our direct mail customers; and • loss of use or data by third parties. Our success partially depends on the successful development and marketing of new products, services and technologies. Our success partially depends on our ability to develop and market new products, services and technologies. We have focused on developing growth opportunities in a number of potential markets. We may not be successful in developing new products, services and technologies and any products, services and technologies that we develop may not gain market acceptance or generate significant revenue. Our initiatives are in various stages of development and may be subject to delays in implementation, customer dissatisfaction with product or service performance or other significant undetected problems. If we fail to successfully introduce new initiatives successfully, our business, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. The outcome of litigation against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition to the legal proceedings specifically described under Item 3 of this Form 10-K, we and our subsidiaries are also involved in various legal proceedings that periodically arise during the course of business. While we do not have reason to believe that the outcome of any such pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, litigation is essentially unpredictable and excessive verdicts could occur. In the future, we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry Fraudulent data access and other security breaches may negatively impact our business and harm its reputation. Security breaches in our facilities, computer networks, and databases may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Despite security measures we have taken, our systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar disruptive problems. Third-party contractors also may experience security breaches involving the storage and transmission of proprietary information. If users gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential third-party information that is stored or transmitted on the networks. In addition, misuse by customers of our information services could cause harm to the business and reputation and result in loss of customers. There have been other instances in which subpoenas and other inquiries have been received from law 10 Table of Contents enforcement regarding activities of our customers which sometimes related to potentially improper use of our information services. We are aware of a limited number of past instances that resulted in criminal convictions of certain former customers for activities involving improper use of certain information services. A security or privacy breach may affect us in the following ways: • deterring customers from using our products and services; • deterring data suppliers from supplying data to us; • harming our reputation; • exposing us to liability; • increasing operating expenses to correct problems caused by the breach; • affecting our ability to meet customers’ expectations; or • causing inquiry from governmental authorities. We expect that, despite our ongoing efforts to prevent fraudulent or improper activity, in the future we may detect additional incidents in which consumer data has been fraudulently or improperly acquired. The number of potentially affected consumers identified by any future incidents is obviously unknown. To the extent new government regulations require us to change our current products and services, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Because personal, public and non-public information is used to search our databases and access the databases of others, we are subject to a certain amount of government regulation. Such regulation affects how our business is conducted and, in some cases, subjects us to the possibility of future lawsuits arising from our products and services. Both our core businesses and our newer initiatives are affected by government regulation, including those in the following significant regulatory areas: • use of data by consumer reporting agencies. Examples in the U.S. include the FCRA, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, and state equivalents; • state insurance restrictions on the use of credit based insurance scores and other insurance laws and regulations applicable to our insurance clients and their use of our insurance products and services; • privacy and security laws and regulations that limit the use and disclosure of personally identifiable information or require security procedures, including, but not limited to, the provisions of the GLB Act; the FCRA; the DPPA; identity theft, file freezing, security breach notification and similar state privacy laws; • the application or extension of consumer protection laws, including, laws governing the use of the Internet and telemarketing; and • laws and regulations applicable to operations in other countries, for example, the European Union’s Privacy Directive and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. To a limited extent, foreign government regulation also influences our activities and those of our current and prospective customers, as well as their expectations and needs in relation to our products and services. These laws and regulations are designed to protect the privacy of the public and to prevent the misuse of personal information in the marketplace. However, many consumer advocates, privacy advocates and government regulators believe the existing laws and regulations do not adequately protect privacy. They have become increasingly concerned with the use of personal information, particularly social security numbers, department of motor vehicle data and dates of birth. As a result, they are lobbying for further restrictions on the dissemination or commercial use of personal information to the public and private sectors. In particular, a 11 Table of Contents number of congressional leaders are calling for hearings and proposing legislative responses in light of increasing concerns over identity theft. Changes in applicable legislation or regulations that restrict our ability to collect, monitor and disseminate information subject to privacy protection could result in decreased demand for and profitability of our products and services and therefore have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, changes in cultural and consumer attitudes to favor further restrictions on information collection and sharing could also lead to reduced demand for our products and services. To the extent the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information increases, the demand for our products and services may decrease. Public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information have become increasingly available recently, particularly through the Internet, and this trend is expected to continue. Governmental agencies in particular have increased the amount of information to which they provide free public access. Public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products and services. To the extent that customers choose not to obtain products and services from us and instead rely on information obtained at little or no cost from these public sources, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Pending Merger with Reed Elsevier The pending merger with Reed Elsevier Group plc may create uncertainty for our customers, employees and business partners. On February 20, 2008, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Reed Elsevier and a wholly owned subsidiary of Reed Elsevier pursuant to which such subsidiary would merge with ChoicePoint and ChoicePoint would survive as a wholly owned subsidiary of Reed Elsevier. The merger is subject to regulatory approval, approval by ChoicePoint’s shareholders and other customary terms and conditions, and is currently expected to close by the end of the summer of 2008. While the merger is pending, customers may delay or defer decisions to purchase our products and services and existing customers may experience uncertainty about our products and services. This may adversely affect our ability to gain new customers and retain existing customers, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Current employees may experience uncertainty about their post-merger roles with Reed Elsevier, and key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with ChoicePoint following the merger. Other parties with which we have or are pursuing relationships, such as data providers and business partners, may defer further arrangements with us. We will incur significant transaction and merger-related costs in connection with the merger. We have already incurred and will incur transaction fees and other costs related to the merger, and expect to incur significant costs associated with completing the merger, which cannot be estimated accurately at this time. Further, diversion of attention from ongoing operations on the part of management and employees could adversely affect our business. Also, speculation regarding the likelihood of the closing of the merger could increase the volatility of the market price of our common stock, and pendency of the merger could make it difficult to effect other significant transactions, to the extent opportunities arise to engage in such transactions. We will incur these costs, as well as face the disruptions to our business and the harm to our relationships with subscribers, employees and business partners discussed above, even if the merger is not completed. Moreover, under specified circumstances, we may be required to pay a termination fee of $100 million and reimbursement of expenses up to $15 million to Reed Elsevier in connection with a termination of the merger agreement. The merger with Reed Elsevier is subject to various approvals and may not occur. Our agreement to merge with a subsidiary of Reed Elsevier is subject to customary closing conditions, including obtaining shareholder approval and governmental approvals, including under applicable antitrust laws, 12 Table of Contents and the accuracy of the representations and warranties, and compliance with the covenants, made by us in the Merger Agreement. If these conditions are not satisfied, the merger may not be completed in the anticipated time frame or at all. A failure to complete the merger may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock and an adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 