Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below, among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. A substantial portion of our revenues are generated from contracts with U.S. government agencies. Termination of these contracts at any given time could materially reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business. Revenues from U.S. Government contracts accounted for 67% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. U.S. government agencies may terminate or suspend their contracts at any time, with or without cause, or may change their policies, priorities or funding levels by reducing agency or program budgets due to budgetary constraints. Our primary contract with the U.S. Government, through the NGA, is the NextView imagery contract. On March 1, 2010, the U.S. Government signed a modification to the SLA to provide the option to extend this contract through June 30, 2010, followed by six additional one-month option periods, with the last option period expiring on December 31, 2010. Although we anticipate the NGA will award a new contract to us on or around June 30, 2010, there can be no assurances that either such event will occur or that the U.S. Government will continue to purchase imagery from us at its current level, if at all. If the NGA terminates or suspends any of its contracts with us, or changes its policies, priorities, or funding levels, these actions would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The SLA provides for monthly payments of up to $12.5 million, subject to a maximum reduction of 10% based on performance metrics. We recognized $124.9 million of revenue under the SLA for the year ended December 31, 2009, which accounted for approximately 46% of our revenue during the year ended December 31, 2009. Changes in U.S. government policy regarding the use of commercial imagery products and service providers, or material delay or cancellation of the planned U.S. government EnhancedView program may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and our ability to fund operations and achieve our growth objectives. Current U.S. government policy encourages the use of commercial imagery products and services to support U.S. national security objectives. We are considered by the U.S. government to be such a provider. U.S. government policy is subject to change and any change in policy away from supporting the use of commercial imagery products 16 and service providers to meet U.S. government imagery needs could materially affect our revenue and our ability to fund operations and achieve our growth objectives. EnhancedView is a large U.S. government procurement that is intended to serve as the follow-on program to the NextView program, in which we currently participate. Our revenue under the NextView program accounted for 46% of our total revenue in 2009. The EnhancedView procurement is in the proposal stage. Satellites have limited useful lives and are expensive to replace. Satellites have limited useful lives. We determine a satellite’s useful life, or its expected operational life, using a complex calculation involving the probabilities of failure of the satellite’s components from design or manufacturing defects, environmental stresses, estimated remaining fuel or other causes. The expected operational lives of our satellites are affected by a number of factors, including the quality of construction, the supply of fuel, the expected gradual environmental degradation of solar panels, the durability of various satellite components and the orbits in which the satellites are placed. Certain advanced components, such as its cameras, are integral to a satellite’s design functionality and expected operational life. The failure of satellite components can cause damage to, or loss of, the use of a satellite before the end of its expected operational life. Electrostatic storms or collisions with other objects could damage our satellites which could, in turn, impair their design functionality. Such objects could include debris from exploded satellites and spent rocket stages, dead satellites and meteoroids. We cannot assure you that each satellite will remain in operation for its expected operational life. We expect the performance of any satellite to decline gradually near the end of its expected operational life. Our GeoEye-1 satellite was launched in September 2008 and has an expected operational life of nine years. IKONOS, another of our satellites, was fully depreciated in June 2008. We currently expect to continue commercial operations with IKONOS through 2011 based on a study that was completed in August of 2008 and updated in January 2010 by the IKONOS manufacturer, which resulted in a revised life expectancy for IKONOS. However, there can be no assurance that IKONOS will continue to operate adequately to remain commercially viable. During the last year, our OrbView-2 satellite has on several occasions experienced operational anomalies related to various components. When these have occurred, OrbView-2 has switched into “safe-hold mode” in order to protect itself while our ground operations personnel worked to restore its functionality, which has historically taken two weeks to several months. When in safe-hold mode, OrbView-2 is unable to provide imagery. The satellite recently returned to normal operations and we continue to monitor the situation. Management is currently doing a cost-benefits analysis of continuing OrbView-2 operations, since we can obtain the information it provides from other external sources. Replacing a satellite is expensive. We anticipate using funds generated from operations to develop and launch future high-resolution imagery satellites. If we do not generate sufficient funds from operations or we cannot obtain financing from outside sources, we will not be able to deploy new satellites to replace GeoEye-1 at the end of its expected operational life. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient funds from operations or to raise additional capital on favorable terms or on a timely basis, if at all, to develop or deploy follow-on high-resolution satellites. We cannot assure you that our satellites will operate as designed. We may experience in-orbit satellite failures or degradations in performance that could impair the commercial performance of our satellites, which could lead to lost revenue, an increase in our operating expenses, lower operating income or lost backlog. Our satellites employ advanced technologies and sensors that are subject to severe environmental stresses in space that could affect the satellite’s performance. Hardware component problems in space could lead to degradation in performance or loss of functionality of the satellite, with attendant costs and revenue losses. In addition, human operators may execute improper implementation commands that negatively impact a satellite’s performance. Unanticipated catastrophic events, such as meteor showers or collisions with space debris, could reduce the performance of or completely destroy any of our satellites. Even if a satellite is operated properly, minor technical flaws in the satellite’s sensors could significantly degrade their performance, which could materially affect our ability to collect imagery and market our products successfully. 17 Our business model depends on our ability to sell imagery from our high-resolution satellites. We do not presently have plans to construct and launch a replacement satellite for IKONOS or OrbView-2 if either fails. During the last year OrbView-2 has on several occasions experienced operational anomalies related to various components. When these have occurred, OrbView-2 has switched into “safe-hold mode” in order to protect itself while our ground operations personnel work to restore its functionality, which has historically taken two weeks to several months. When in safe-hold mode, OrbView-2 is unable to provide imagery. In September 2009, OrbView-2 switched into safe-hold mode and has been unable to provide imagery on a regular basis. The satellite recently returned to normal operations and we continue to monitor the situation. While we have historically had success in returning OrbView-2 to operational status from this mode, we cannot assure you that Orb View-2 will continue to operate normally or will return to operational status should it re-enter the safe-hold mode. We are developing the GeoEye-2 satellite program, which will likely take approximately three to four years to complete. Accordingly, GeoEye-2 cannot be considered a near-term replacement if the GeoEye-1 satellite were to fail. In December 2009, we announced that our engineers detected an irregularity in the equipment that GeoEye-1 uses to point the antenna that transmits imagery to receiving stations on the ground. This irregularity appears to limit the range of movement of GeoEye-1’s downlink antenna, which affects GeoEye-1’s ability to image and downlink simultaneously to a few of our international customers that have contracted for that service. GeoEye-1 is still able to downlink imagery to GeoEye’s four ground stations, since down-linking to these ground stations is separate from imaging activities; however, as of the date of this filing, the irregularity has not yet been remedied and we cannot assure you that this irregularity will ever be fully remediated. In May 2009, we announced that we had identified an issue with a particular color imagery collection feature of GeoEye-1. While we have subsequently modified our operations mode to mitigate the risk associated with this imagery collection issue and believe that this was an isolated occurrence, we cannot assure you that our cameras will not experience similar issues in the future, which could have a material adverse affect on our collection capacity. Any other failure of our satellites or any interference with such satellites’ commercial operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. New or proposed satellites are subject to construction and launch delays, the occurrence of which can materially and adversely affect our operations. We have in the past experienced delays in satellite construction and launch which have adversely affected our operations. Such delays can result from delays in the construction of satellites, procurement of requisite components, launch vehicles, the limited availability of appropriate launch windows, possible delays in obtaining regulatory approvals and launch failures. Failure to meet a satellite’s construction schedule, resulting in a significant delay in the future delivery of a satellite could also adversely affect our marketing strategy for the satellite. Even after a satellite has been manufactured and is ready for launch, an appropriate launch date may not be available for several months. Further, any significant delay in the commencement of service of any of our satellites would allow customers who pre-purchased or agreed to utilize capacity on the satellite to terminate their contracts and could affect our plans to replace an in-orbit satellite prior to the end of its service life. We operate in a highly competitive and specialized industry. The size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, which could result in loss of our market share. Our products and services compete with satellite and aircraft-based imagery and related products and services offered by a range of commercial and government providers. Certain of these competitors may have greater financial, personnel and other resources than us. Our major U.S. competitor for high-resolution satellite imagery is DigitalGlobe. DigitalGlobe currently operates three high-resolution satellites, Quickbird, launched in 2001, WorldView-1, launched in September 2007, and WorldView-2 satellite, launched on October 8, 2009. We believe that WorldView-1 has the ability to provide commercial customers with 0.5 meter resolution imagery. In addition, WorldView-2 has the ability to collect color imagery, which could strengthen DigitalGlobe’s position in the industry. Our satellites have different capabilities from those of DigitalGlobe. In particular, all of our satellites have the ability to produce color imagery, while only two of DigitalGlobe’s satellites can image in color and GeoEye-1’s image resolution of 0.41 meters is believed to be 18 the highest resolution of any commercial satellite. Historically, we have enjoyed a competitive advantage over DigitalGlobe in the international markets because our high-resolution satellites have had the capability to directly download imagery to our customers’ ground stations. However, the WorldView-1 and WorldView-2 satellites may now have some of the same capabilities. Additionally, both the WorldView-1 and WorldView-2 satellites have higher resolutions and more advanced technologies than our IKONOS satellite. It is possible that foreign governments could subsidize, fund the development, construct, launch and operate imagery satellites with higher resolution and accuracy in the future, which could enable them to sell earth imagery from their satellites in the commercial market and thereby compete on price with our imagery products. If competitors develop and launch satellites with more advanced technologies than ours, or offer services at lower prices than ours, our business and results of operations could be harmed. If we cannot maintain our margins, our financial position could be impacted and our stock price could decline. U.S. and foreign governmental agencies may build and operate their own systems which could affect the current and potential market share of our products and services. The U.S. Government currently relies and is likely to continue to rely on government-owned and operated systems for classified satellite-based high-resolution imagery. The U.S. Government could reduce its purchases from commercial satellite imagery providers or decrease the number of companies to which it contracts with no corresponding increase in the total amount spent. The U.S. government and foreign governments also may develop, construct, launch and operate their own imagery satellites, which could reduce their need to rely on commercial suppliers. In addition, such governments could sell Earth imagery from their satellites in the commercial market and thereby compete with our imagery products and services. These governments could also subsidize the development, launch and operation of imagery satellites by our current or future competitors. Any reduction in purchases of our products and services by the U.S. Government could have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of operations. The success of our products and services will depend on market acceptance, and you should not rely on historic growth rates as an indicator of future growth. Our success depends on existing markets accepting our imagery products and services and our ability to develop new markets. Our business plan is based on the assumption that we will generate significant future revenues from sales of high-resolution imagery produced by GeoEye-1 and IKONOS to current and new customers in our existing markets and to customers in new markets. The commercial availability of high-resolution satellite imagery is still a fairly new market. Consequently, it is difficult to predict accurately the ultimate size of the market and the market acceptance of our products and services. Our strategy to target certain markets for our satellite imagery relies on a number of assumptions, some or all of which may be incorrect. The actual market for our products and services could vary materially from the potential markets that we have identified causing us to target less promising markets and miss opportunities. We cannot accurately predict whether our products and services will achieve significant market acceptance or whether there will be a market for our products and services on terms we find acceptable. Market acceptance of our commercial high-resolution Earth imagery products and services depends on a number of factors, including the quality, scope, timeliness, sophistication and price and services and the availability of substitute products and services. Lack of significant market acceptance of our offerings, or other products and services that utilize our products and services, delays in acceptance, failure of certain markets to develop or our need to make significant investments to achieve acceptance by the market would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not continue to grow in line with historical rates, or at all. If we are unable to achieve sustained growth, we may be unable to execute our business strategy, expand our business or fund our liquidity needs and our prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 19 Interruption or failure of our infrastructure and image downloading systems could impair our ability to effectively perform our daily operations, protect and maintain the Earth imagery content stored in our image archives and provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our results of operations. The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our infrastructure, information technology and communications systems. Any system downtime or damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our service, which could reduce our revenue and profits. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems. Our data centers and ground stations have the ability to be powered by backup generators. However, if our primary source of power and the backup generators fail, our daily operations and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our ground stations and collection systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events. Our satellite imagery is downloaded directly to our ground stations and then stored in our image archives for sale to our customers. As a result, our operations are dependent upon our ability to maintain and protect our Earth imagery content and our image archives and to provide our images to our customers, including our foreign distribution network and value-added resellers. The impairment of our ability to perform any of these functions could result in lengthy interruptions in our services and/or damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. We rely on resellers and a foreign distribution network to market and sell our products and services in certain markets and to certain customers. If these distributors and resellers fail to market our products and services successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We rely principally on foreign regional distributors to market and sell our imagery from the GeoEye-1 and IKONOS satellites internationally. We are currently intensifying our efforts to further develop our current and future operations in international markets. These regional distributors may not have the skill or experience to further develop regional commercial markets for our products and services. If we fail to enter into additional regional distribution agreements or if our foreign regional distributors fail to market and sell our imagery products and services abroad successfully, these failures could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on resellers to develop, market and sell our products and services to address certain target markets, including certain industries and geographical markets. If our value-added resellers fail to develop, market and sell our products and services successfully, this failure could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance coverage may be more difficult and costly to obtain or maintain. In October 2009, the Company issued $400.0 million of Senior Secured Notes due October 1, 2015 (2015 Notes). The terms of the 2015 Notes require us to obtain launch and in-orbit insurance for any future satellites we construct and launch and also requires us to maintain specified levels of in-orbit operation insurance for GeoEye-1, to the extent that such coverage can be obtained at a premium that is not disproportionately high. With respect to GeoEye-1, we currently carry $250.0 million of in-orbit insurance, consisting of $63.0 million of in-orbit insurance in the event of the total loss of the satellite expiring December 1, 2010, plus $187.0 million of in-orbit coverage to be paid if the satellite’s capabilities become impaired as measured against a set of specifications, of which $20.0 million expires on September 6, 2010, $117.0 million expires on December 1, 2010 and $50.0 million expires on September 6, 2011. We believe that under current market conditions the premiums for additional coverage would be disproportionately high. This insurance is not sufficient to cover the cost of a replacement high-resolution imagery satellite such as GeoEye-1 or to provide us with sufficient funds to repurchase all of the 2015 Notes then outstanding in the event that, as a result of such a loss, we are required to make a mandatory offer to 20 repurchase the 2015 Notes. With respect to IKONOS, we currently carry $20.0 million of in-orbit coverage to be paid if the satellite’s capabilities become impaired as measured against a set of specifications, expiring December 1, 2010. We do not carry any insurance coverage for the OrbView-2 satellite. Accordingly, our current levels of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fund operations in the event loss proceeds are required for the repurchase of our 2015 Notes. Insurance market conditions or factors outside our control at a time when we would seek required insurance, such as failure of a satellite using similar components or a similar launch vehicle, could cause premiums to be significantly higher than current estimates. Higher premiums on insurance policies will increase our costs. Should the future terms of launch and in-orbit insurance policies become less favorable than those currently available, this may result in limits on amounts of coverage that we can obtain or may prevent us from obtaining insurance at all. Any failure to obtain required insurance could cause a default under the 2015 Notes. A partial or complete failure of a revenue-producing satellite, whether insured or not, could require additional, unplanned capital expenditures, an acceleration of planned capital expenditures, interruptions in service, a reduction in contracted backlog and lost revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The global financial crisis may impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continuing credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business, our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the cost of capital has increased substantially while the availability of funds from the capital markets has diminished significantly. Accordingly, our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted or be available only on terms we do not consider favorable. Limited access to the capital markets could adversely impact our ability to take advantage of business opportunities or react to changing economic and business conditions and could adversely impact our strategy. The current economic situation could have an impact on our customers, causing them to fail to meet obligations to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results from operations and cash flows. State and local governments may be more vulnerable to the economic downturn and, accordingly, our MJ Harden operations have and could continue to face greater exposure to this risk. For example, our revenue from production and other services decreased $0.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008, which we believe was partially due to a decrease in state and local funding for imaging products from our digital aerial imagery services as a result of the economic downturn. A continued economic downturn coupled with the uncertainty and volatility of the global financial crisis may have further adverse impact on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows that we currently cannot predict or anticipate. In addition, the current economic downturn has also led to concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the financial strength of our counterparties. For example, if one or more of our insurance carriers fails, we may not receive the full amount of proceeds due to us in the event of loss or damage to one of our satellites. In addition, if we attempt to obtain future insurance in addition to, or replacement of, our existing coverage, the credit market turmoil could negatively impact our ability to obtain such insurance. Our business is capital intensive, and we may not be able to raise adequate capital to finance our business strategies, including any future satellite, or we may be able to do so only on terms that significantly restrict our ability to operate our business. The implementation of our business strategies requires a substantial outlay of capital. As we pursue our business strategies and seek to respond to opportunities and trends in our industry, our actual capital expenditures may differ from our expected capital expenditures and there can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy our capital requirements in the future. We currently expect that our operational liquidity requirements in 2010 will be satisfied by cash on hand, cash generated from our operations and the net proceeds from the 2015 Notes offering. However, we cannot provide assurances that our businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to execute our business strategies. 21 Lending institutions have suffered and may continue to suffer losses due to their lending and other financial relationships, especially because of the general weakening of the global economy. As a result, changes in the financial markets may impact our ability to obtain new financing or refinance our existing debt on commercially reasonable terms and in adequate amounts, if at all. If we determine we need to obtain additional funds through external financing and are unable to do so, we may be prevented from fully implementing our business strategies. In particular, if we determine to construct and launch a next generation satellite, we may require significant capital, and the timing of the construction will depend on our ability to raise the necessary capital on terms which we deem to be acceptable. We expect to continue to make reasonable investments in GeoEye-2’s development, but we do not expect to launch or commission the GeoEye-2 satellite on an accelerated basis without an agreement with the NGA under its EnhancedView Program. Therefore, we would most likely proceed so that a next generation satellite could be used as a replacement satellite for GeoEye-1 in the 2016 to 2017 timeframe, which may nonetheless require additional capital. Regardless of our desired delivery schedule, if any, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient capital to allow for the construction of a next generation satellite. Failure to obtain, or the revocation or suspension of, regulatory approvals could result in service interruptions and materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. U.S. Government Approvals. Operation of our satellites requires licenses from the DoC. The failure to obtain these licenses, or the revocation of one or more licenses, could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. The DoC licenses provide that the U.S. Government may interrupt service or otherwise limit our ability to distribute satellite images to certain parties, including certain of our customers, in order to address national security or foreign policy concerns or because of the international obligations of the U.S. Actual or threatened interruptions or limitations on our service could adversely affect our ability to market our products. In addition, the DoC has the right to review and approve our agreements with foreign entities, including contracts with international customers for high-resolution imagery. We have received such approvals for the agreements in place with our existing international customers. However, such reviews could delay or prohibit us from executing new international agreements or renewals or extensions of our existing agreements, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future supply certain of our international customers with access to ground stations that enable these customers to downlink data directly from our satellites. Exporting these ground stations and technical information relating to these stations may require us to obtain export licenses from the DoC or the U.S. Department of State. If the DoC or the U.S. Department of State does not issue these export licenses in connection with future exports, or if these licenses are significantly delayed or contain restrictions, or if the DoC or the U.S. Department of State revokes, suspends or denies a request for renewal of existing licenses, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our operation of satellites and ground stations also requires licenses from the FCC. The FCC regulates the construction, launch and operation of our satellites, the use of satellite spectrum and the licensing of our ground stations terminals located within the United States. We currently have all required FCC licenses necessary to operate our business as it is currently conducted. However, these licenses have expiration dates which are expected to occur while the satellites and ground systems are still in use. The FCC generally renews licenses routinely, but there can be no assurance that our licenses will be renewed at their expiration dates for full terms or without adverse conditions. Failure to renew these licenses or obtain FCC authorization to construct, launch and operate any new satellites could have a material adverse affect on our ability to generate revenue and conduct our business as currently planned. International Registration and Approvals. The use of satellite spectrum is subject to the requirements of the ITU. Additionally, satellite operators must abide by the specific laws of the countries in which downlink services are provided from the satellite to ground station terminals within such countries. Our customers or distributors are responsible for obtaining local regulatory approval from the governments in the countries in which they receive imagery downlinked directly from our satellites to ground stations within such countries. If the necessary approvals are not obtained, we will not be able to distribute real time imagery in those regions and this inability to offer real time service in a foreign country could negatively affect our business. In addition, regulatory provisions in countries where we wish to operate may impose unduly burdensome restrictions on our operations. Our business may also be 22 adversely affected if the national authorities where we plan to operate adopt treaties, regulations or legislation unfavorable to foreign companies or limiting the provision of our products and services. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our business and the trading prices of our securities. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 identified one material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. With respect to the material weakness, our management concluded that we did not maintain effective controls over the accuracy and valuation of the provision for income taxes. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures”. Until the material weakness is fully remediated, this material weakness could lead to errors in our reported financial results and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Notwithstanding our remediation efforts, the material weakness described above will not be remediated until the new controls operate for a sufficient period of time and are tested to enable management to conclude that the controls are effective. Our management will consider the design and operating effectiveness of these controls and will make any additional changes management determines appropriate. Further, we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses and cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the accuracy and reliability of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated under Section 404. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Our international business exposes us to risks relating to increased regulation and political or economic instability in foreign markets. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 27% of our total revenues were derived from international sales. We intend to continue to pursue international contracts and we expect to continue to derive substantial revenues from international sales of our products and services. International operations are subject to certain risks, such as: • changes in domestic and foreign governmental regulations and licensing requirements; • deterioration of relations between the United States and a particular foreign country; • increases in tariffs and taxes and other trade barriers; • changes in political and economic stability, including fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, which may make payment in U.S. dollars, as provided for under our existing contracts, more expensive for foreign customers; and • difficulties in obtaining or enforcing judgments in foreign jurisdictions. These risks are beyond our control and could have a material adverse effect on our business. 23 Our success depends upon a limited number of key personnel. Our success depends on attracting, retaining and motivating highly skilled professionals. A number of our employees are highly skilled engineers and other professionals. In addition, our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of the members of our senior management. Competition for highly-skilled individuals is intense, and if we fail to continue to attract, retain and motivate such professionals, our ability to compete in our industry could be adversely affected. Fluctuations in our operating results could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including, without limitation: • risks and uncertainties affecting our current and proposed business and the imagery-derived products and processing service satellite industry; • increased competition in the industry; and • general economic conditions. As a result of these possible fluctuations, period-to-period comparisons of our financial results may not be reliable indicators of future performance. The price of our common stock has been volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. In recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies in the technology sector. In particular, over the last twelve months, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for small companies and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance or prospects for future operations. These broad fluctuations may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Future market movements may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The Company has agreed to issue to Cerberus Capital Management L. P., subject to certain conditions, up to $115 million of convertible preferred stock of the Company which could adversely impact the price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently expect to retain our future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. We are prohibited from paying dividends under instruments governing our 2015 Notes until the principal amount of all the 2015 Notes has been repaid. We have substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, after giving effect to the offering of the 2015 Notes, we have $400 million of long-term debt in the aggregate, consisting of the 2015 Notes and $0.5 million of the outstanding 2012 Notes which remain outstanding. The $0.5 million of 2012 Notes were repaid in full on January 22, 2010. We also hold a commitment from Cerberus Capital Management L. P. to purchase up to $100 million of senior unsecured notes if the Company so elects, with the notes maturing in 2016. Our substantial indebtedness has important consequences. For example, it: • limits our ability to borrow additional funds; • limits our ability to pay dividends; • limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; 24 • increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limits our ability to make strategic acquisitions; • requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; and • places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt. Interest costs related to our debt are substantial and, as a result, the demands on our cash resources are significant. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund operations and planned capital expenditures will depend on our future results of operations and ability to generate cash. Our future results of operations are, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Servicing our indebtedness will require significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on numerous factors beyond our control, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our interest expense was $36.2 million, compared to $38.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flows are insufficient to allow us to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, we may need to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, or that we will be able to refinance on commercially reasonable terms or that these measures would satisfy our scheduled debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our debt on favorable terms it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, the value of our outstanding debt (including the 2015 Notes) and our ability to make any required cash payments under our indebtedness. Government audits of our contracts could result in a material charge to our earnings and have a negative effect on our cash position following an audit adjustment. Our government contracts are subject to cost audits which may occur several years after the period to which the audit relates. If an audit identifies significant unallowable costs, we could incur a material charge to our earnings or reduction in our cash position. Our effective income tax rate may vary. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations and/or rates; the results of any tax examinations; changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations; changes in estimates of prior years’ items; acquisitions; changes in our corporate structure; and changes in overall levels of income before taxes. All of these factors may result in periodic revisions to our effective income tax rate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 