Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our shares of common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks occur, the market price of our shares of common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Operations If we are delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, there may not be a market for our common stock, causing a decrease in the value of an investment in us and adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. On December 24, 2007, the NASDAQ Global Market notified us that, for the prior 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. NASDAQ has provided us with 180 calendar days, or until June 23, 2008, to regain compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. If the bid price of our common stock does not close at or above $1.00 per share for a period of at least ten consecutive business days by June 23, 2008, we expect NASDAQ to provide written notice that our common stock will be delisted. Should that occur, we may appeal the delisting determination. If our common stock is delisted, trading of our common stock will most likely take place on an over-the-counter market established for unlisted securities, such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. An investor is likely to find it less convenient to sell, or to obtain accurate quotations in seeking to buy, our common stock on an over-the-counter market, and many investors may not buy or sell our common stock due to difficulty in accessing over-the-counter markets, policies preventing them from trading in securities not listed on a national exchange or other reasons. In addition, as a delisted security, our common stock would be subject to SEC rules regarding “penny stock,” which impose additional disclosure requirements on broker-dealers. The regulations relating to penny stocks, coupled with the typically higher cost per trade to the investor of penny stocks due to factors such as broker commissions generally representing a higher percentage of the price of a penny stock than of a higher priced stock, would further limit the ability of investors to trade in our common stock. For these reasons and others, delisting would adversely affect the liquidity and trading volume and price of our common stock, causing the value of an investment in us to decrease and having an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and to raise capital. 12 Table of Contents Our new product strategy, which is targeted at markets demanding superior video and image quality, may not significantly lead to increased revenue or gross profit in a timely manner or at all, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We have adopted a new product strategy that focuses on our core competencies in pixel processing and delivering high levels of video and image quality. With this strategy, we continue to make further investments in development of our ImageProcessor architecture for the multimedia projector market, with particular focus on adding increased performance and functionality. For the advanced television market, we are shifting away from our previous approach of implementing our intellectual property (“IP”) exclusively in system-on-chip integrated circuits (“ICs”), to an approach designed to improve video performance of our customers’ image processors through the use of a co-processor IC. This strategy is designed to address the needs of the large-screen, high-resolution, high-quality segment of the advanced television market. Additionally, we are focusing our research and development efforts on new areas beyond our traditional applications, which may not result in increased revenue or gross profit. We have designed our new strategy to help us take advantage of expected market trends. However, our expectations may not be accurate and these markets may not develop or they may take longer to develop than we expect. Additionally, developers of products may not choose to incorporate our products into their products and we cannot assure you that our customers and potential customers will accept our products quickly enough or in sufficient volume to grow revenue and gross profit. A lack of market acceptance or insufficient market acceptance would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from the restructuring efforts announced in 2006 and implemented throughout 2007 and we may need to initiate additional restructuring efforts in the future. Our restructuring plan announced in April 2006, was designed to reduce our breakeven point by decreasing manufacturing overhead and operating expenses and focusing on our core business. In November 2006 we announced an additional restructuring plan designed to further reduce operating expenses. This plan, which we continued to implement throughout 2007, included additional consolidation of our operations in order to reduce compensation and rent expense, while at the same time making critical infrastructure investments in people, process and information systems to improve efficiency. Unforeseen circumstances may result in our not being able to obtain the full benefits of the restructuring plans, or our assumptions about the benefits of the plans may prove incorrect or inaccurate, leading to a reduced benefit. Therefore, we cannot assure you that future restructuring efforts will not be necessary, or that the expected benefits from any future restructuring efforts will be attained. We have incurred substantial indebtedness as a result of the sale of convertible debentures. As of December 31, 2007, $140.0 million of our 1.75% convertible subordinated debentures due 2024 were outstanding. In January 2008, we commenced a modified dutch auction tender offer for a portion of the outstanding debentures. We offered to purchase, for cash, up to $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of the outstanding debentures at a price not greater than $750 nor less than $680 per $1,000 principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon. The tender offer expired on February 28, 2008, and on March 5, 2008, we announced that we had accepted for purchase approximately $50.2 million aggregate principal amount of our convertible debentures at a purchase price of $740 per $1,000 principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, the date of purchase for a total cost of approximately $37.5 million. The total amount of outstanding debentures after the purchase was approximately $89.8 million. The remaining debt obligations are due in 2024, although the holders of debentures have the right to require us to purchase all or a portion of the outstanding debentures on May 15, 2011, May 15, 2014 and May 15, 2019. Since the market price of our common stock is significantly below the conversion price of the debentures due 2024, the holders of our outstanding debentures are unlikely to convert the notes to common stock in accordance with the existing terms of the notes. Accordingly, we expect holders of the debentures to require us to purchase all of the outstanding debentures on May 15, 2011, the earliest date allowed. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to 13 Table of Contents financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, some of which are beyond our control. These debentures could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes, limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business, reduce funds available for use in our operations and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Additionally, one of the covenants of the indenture governing the debentures can be interpreted such that if we are late with any of our required filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“1934 Act”), and if we fail to affect a cure within 60 days, the holders of the debentures can put the debentures back to the Company, whereby the debentures become immediately due and payable. As a result of our restructuring efforts, we have fewer employees to perform day-to-day controls, processes and activities and additionally, certain functions have been transferred to new employees who are not as familiar with our procedures. These changes increase the risk that we will be unable to make timely filings in accordance with the 1934 Act. Any resulting default under our debentures would have a material adverse effect on our cash position and operating results. If we do not achieve additional design wins in the future, our ability to grow will be seriously limited. Even if we achieve additional design wins in the future, we may not realize significant revenue from the design wins. Our future success depends on developers of advanced display products designing our products into their systems. To achieve design wins, we must define and deliver cost-effective, innovative and integrated semiconductors. Once a supplier’s products have been designed into a system, the developer may be reluctant to change its source of components due to the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier. Accordingly, the failure on our part to obtain additional design wins with leading branded manufacturers or integrators, and to successfully design, develop and introduce new products and product enhancements could seriously limit our ability to grow. Additionally, achieving a design win does not necessarily mean that a developer will order large volumes of our products. A design win is not a binding commitment by a developer to purchase our products. Rather, it is a decision by a developer to use our products in the design process of that developer’s products. Developers can choose at any time to discontinue using our products in their designs or product development efforts. If our products are chosen to be incorporated into a developer’s products, we may still not realize significant revenues from that developer if that developer’s products are not commercially successful or if that developer chooses to qualify, or incorporate the products of, a second source, either of which may cause our revenue to decline. We may not be able to respond to the rapid technological changes in the markets in which we compete, or seek to compete, or we may not be able to comply with industry standards in the future, making our products less desirable or obsolete. The markets in which we compete or seek to compete are subject to rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changing customer requirements for new products and features and evolving industry standards. The introduction of new technologies and emergence of new industry standards could render our products less desirable or obsolete, which could harm our business. Examples of changing industry standards include the introduction of high-definition television, which includes a variety of new formats, new video decoding technology, such as H.264 or Windows Media 11, new digital receivers and displays with higher resolutions, all of which have required us to accelerate development of new products to meet these new standards. Our failure to adequately respond to such technological changes could render our products obsolete or significantly decrease our revenues. 14 Table of Contents Because of the complex nature of our semiconductor designs and associated manufacturing processes and the rapid evolution of our customers’ product designs, we may not be able to develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner, which could decrease customer demand for our products and reduce our revenue. The development of our semiconductors is highly complex. These complexities require us to employ advanced designs and manufacturing processes that are unproven. Many of our designs involve the development of new high-speed analog circuits that are difficult to simulate and require physical prototypes. The result can be longer and less predictable development cycles. Successful development and timely introduction of new or enhanced products depends on a number of other factors, including, but not limited to: • accurate prediction of customer requirements and evolving industry standards, including video decoding, digital interface and content piracy protection standards; • development of advanced display technologies and capabilities; • timely completion and introduction of new product designs; • use of advanced foundry processes and achievement of high manufacturing yields; and • market acceptance of new products. We will not always succeed in developing new products or product enhancements nor will we always do so in a timely manner. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce products in a timely manner, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We have experienced increased development time and delays in introducing new products that have resulted in significantly less revenue than originally expected for those products. Acquisitions have significantly added to the complexity of our product development efforts as we must now coordinate very complex product development programs between multiple geographically dispersed locations. Restructuring plans have also significantly affected our product development efforts. We may not be successful in timely delivery of new products with reduced numbers of employees or with newer inexperienced employees. Any such failure could cause us to lose customers or potential customers, which would decrease our revenue. Because of our long product development process and sales cycles, we may incur substantial costs before we earn associated revenues and may not ultimately sell as many units of our products as we originally anticipated. We develop products based on anticipated market and customer requirements and incur substantial product development expenditures, which can include the payment of large up-front, third-party license fees and royalties, prior to generating associated revenue. Our work under these projects is technically challenging and places considerable demands on our limited resources, particularly on our most senior engineering talent. Because the development of our products incorporates not only our complex and evolving technology but also our customers’ specific requirements, a lengthy sales process is often required before potential customers begin the technical evaluation of our products. Our customers typically perform numerous tests and extensively evaluate our products before incorporating them into their systems. The time required for testing, evaluation and design of our products into a customer’s system can take up to nine months or more. It can take an additional nine months or longer before a customer commences volume shipments of systems that incorporate our products. We cannot assure you that the time required for the testing, evaluation and design of our products by our customers would not be significantly longer than nine months. Because of the lengthy development and sales cycles, we will experience delays between the time we incur expenditures for research and development, sales and marketing and inventory and the time we generate revenue, if any, from these expenditures. Additionally, if actual sales volumes for a particular product are substantially less than originally anticipated, we may experience large write-offs of capitalized license fees, software development tools, product masks or other capitalized or deferred product-related costs that would negatively affect our operating results. For example, in 2005 and 2006, we invested significant amounts in research and development efforts for projects that were ultimately canceled and for which we will not realize 15 Table of Contents any revenue. In 2007, we wrote off assets with a net book value of $6.9 million, which consisted primarily of engineering software tools that we were no longer using due to reductions in research and development personnel and changes in product development strategy. The year ended December 31, 2004 was our only year of profitability since inception and we may be unable to achieve profitability in future periods. The year ended December 31, 2004 was our first and only year of profitability since inception. Since then, we have incurred net losses. In 2006, we initiated restructuring plans aimed at returning the Company to profitability. We cannot be certain these plans will be successful or that we will achieve profitability in the future or, if we do, that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are not profitable in the future, we may be unable to continue our operations. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results make it difficult to predict our future performance and may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter and are likely to vary in the future based on a number of factors related to our industry and the markets for our products that are difficult or impossible to predict. Some of these factors are not in our control and any of them may cause our quarterly operating results or the price of our common stock to fluctuate. These factors include, but are not limited to: • demand for multimedia projectors and advanced televisions; • demand and timing of orders for our products; • the deferral of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements from us or our competitors; • the deferral of or reduction in customer orders due to a reduction in our end customers’ demand; • the loss of one or more of our key distributors or customers; • changes in the available production capacity at the semiconductor fabrication foundries that manufacture our products; • changes in the costs of manufacturing; • our ability to provide adequate supplies of our products to customers and avoid excess inventory; • the announcement or introduction of products and technologies by our competitors; • changes in product mix, product pricing or distribution channels; and • general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the advanced display and semiconductor markets. Fluctuations in our quarterly results could adversely affect the price of our common stock in a manner unrelated to our long-term operating performance. Because our operating results are volatile and difficult to predict, you should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. Additionally, it is possible that in any future quarter our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock may decline significantly. Our products are characterized by average selling prices that decline over relatively short periods of time, which will negatively affect financial results unless we are able to reduce our product costs or introduce new products with higher average selling prices. Average selling prices for our products decline over relatively short periods of time, while many of our product costs are fixed. When our average selling prices decline, our gross profit declines unless we are able to sell more units or reduce the cost to manufacture our products. Our operating results are negatively affected when revenue or gross profit declines. We have experienced declines in our average selling prices and expect 16 Table of Contents that we will continue to experience them in the future, although we cannot predict when they may occur or how severe they will be. Failure to manage any future expansion efforts effectively could adversely affect our business and results of operations. To manage any future expansion efforts effectively in a rapidly evolving market, we must be able to maintain and improve our operational and financial systems, train and manage our employee base and attract and retain qualified personnel with relevant experience. We must also manage multiple relationships with customers, business partners, contract manufacturers, suppliers and other third parties. We could spend substantial amounts of time and money in connection with expansion efforts for which we may not realize any profit. Our systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support our operations and we may not be able to expand quickly enough to exploit potential market opportunities. If we do not manage any future expansion efforts effectively, our operating expenses could increase more rapidly than our revenue, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends upon the continued services of key personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace, and the loss of one or more of these employees could seriously harm our business by delaying product development. We believe our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified hardware and software engineers, sales, marketing, finance and managerial personnel. Competition for talented personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our key personnel or identify, attract or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. Because of the highly technical nature of our business, the loss of key engineering personnel could delay product introductions and significantly impair our ability to successfully create future products. If we do not succeed in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications, our product development efforts, revenue and business could be seriously harmed. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Currently, this risk has increased as we continue to implement restructuring plans to consolidate our operating sites and change our strategic direction. In the last fifteen months a significant portion of our executive management team has turned over, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Chief Financial Officer, Chief Technology Officer, Vice President of Sales, Vice President of Business Operations and Vice President, General Manager of China. Additionally, we are currently operating with an interim CEO, Mr. Walicek, as Mr. Olsen is currently on a medical leave of absence and may be unable to return. The interim transition and potential inability of Mr. Olsen to return as CEO could reduce our ability to execute on our new strategy and restructuring efforts. During 2006 and 2007, we also experienced difficulties hiring and retaining qualified engineers in our Shanghai design center. Because we do not have long-term commitments from our customers and plan purchases based on estimates of customer demand which may be inaccurate, we must contract for the manufacture of our products based on those potentially inaccurate estimates. Our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our customers may cancel or defer purchase orders at any time. This process requires us to make numerous forecast assumptions concerning demand, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If our customers or we overestimate demand, we may purchase components or have products manufactured that we may not be able to use or sell. As a result, we would have excess inventory, which would negatively affect our operating results. For example, we overestimated demand for certain of our products which led to charges for obsolete inventory in 2006 and 2007. Conversely, if our customers or we underestimate demand, or if sufficient manufacturing capacity is not available, we would forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. 17 Table of Contents Our dependence on selling to distributors and integrators increases the complexity of managing our supply chain and may result in excess inventory or inventory shortages. Selling to distributors and integrators reduces our ability to forecast sales accurately and increases the complexity of our business. Since our distributors act as intermediaries between us and the companies using our products, we must rely on our distributors to accurately report inventory levels and production forecasts. We must similarly rely on our integrators. Our integrators are original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) that build display devices based on specifications provided by branded suppliers. Selling to distributors and OEMs adds another layer between us and the ultimate source of demand for our products, the consumer. These arrangements require us to manage a complex supply chain and to monitor the financial condition and creditworthiness of our distributors, integrators and customers. They also make it more difficult for us to predict demand for our products. Our failure to manage one or more of these challenges could result in excess inventory or inventory shortages that could materially impact our operating results or limit the ability of companies using our semiconductors to deliver their products. A significant amount of our revenue comes from a limited number of customers and distributors. Any decrease in revenue from, or loss of, any of these customers or distributors could significantly reduce our revenue. The display manufacturing market is highly concentrated and we are, and will continue to be, dependent on a limited number of customers and distributors for a substantial portion of our revenue. Sales to distributors represented 57%, 52% and 46% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Sales to Tokyo Electron Device, or TED, our Japanese distributor, represented 33%, 26% and 22% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Revenue attributable to our top five end customers represented 47%, 39% and 34% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Sales to Seiko Epson Corporation, our top end customer, represented 21%, 15% and 10% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers, or a decision by one or more of our significant customers to select products manufactured by a competitor or to use its own internally-developed semiconductors, would significantly impact our revenue. For example, our loss of a key OEM customer in Europe contributed to a $45.5 million, or 51%, decrease in advanced television revenue from 2005 to 2006. The concentration of our accounts receivable with a limited number of customers exposes us to increased credit risk and could harm our operating results and cash flows. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had two and four customers, respectively, that each represented 10% or more of accounts receivable. The concentration of our accounts receivable with a limited number of customers increases our credit risk. The failure of these customers to pay their balances, or any other customer to pay future outstanding balances, would result in an operating expense and reduce our cash flows. Our products could become obsolete if necessary licenses of third-party technology are not available to us or are only available on terms that are not commercially viable. We license technology from third parties that is incorporated into our products or product enhancements. We currently have access to certain key technology owned by independent third parties, through license agreements typically granted on a product-by-by-product basis. Future products or product enhancements may require additional third-party licenses that may not be available to us or may not be available on terms that are commercially reasonable. In addition, in the event of a change in control of one of our licensors, it may become difficult to maintain access to its licensed technology. If we are unable to obtain or maintain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements, we may have to obtain substitute technology with lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, either of which could seriously harm the competitiveness of our products. 18 Table of Contents Our limited ability to protect our IP and proprietary rights could harm our competitive position by allowing our competitors to access our proprietary technology and to introduce similar products. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology, including our semiconductor designs and software. We provide the computer programming code for our software to customers in connection with their product development efforts, thereby increasing the risk that customers will misappropriate our proprietary software. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to help protect our proprietary technologies. Currently, we hold 73 patents and have 80 patent applications pending for protection of our significant technologies. Competitors in both the U.S. and foreign countries, many of whom have substantially greater resources, may apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make and sell our products, or they may develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Effective copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. We cannot assure you that the degree of protection offered by patent or trade secret laws will be sufficient. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any patents will be issued as a result of any pending applications, or that, if issued, any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Others may bring infringement actions against us that could be time consuming and expensive to defend. We may become subject to claims involving patents or other IP rights. IP claims could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. In addition, IP claims may be brought against customers that incorporate our products in the design of their own products. These claims, regardless of their success or merit and regardless of whether we are named as defendants in a lawsuit, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert the time and attention of management and technical personnel. Any IP litigation or claims also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products using technology that contains the allegedly infringing IP; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant IP, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; • attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing IP; or • pay damages for past infringement claims that are determined to be valid or which are arrived at in settlement of such litigation or threatened litigation. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we may incur significant additional costs or be unable to manufacture and sell our products, which could seriously harm our business. In addition, we may not be able to develop, license or acquire non-infringing technology under reasonable terms. These developments could result in an inability to compete for customers or could adversely affect our results of operations. Dependence on a limited number of sole-source, third-party manufacturers for our products exposes us to shortages based on capacity allocation or low manufacturing yield, errors in manufacturing, price increases with little notice, volatile inventory levels and delays in product delivery, which could result in delays in satisfying customer demand, increased costs and loss of revenues. We contract with third-party foundries for wafer fabrication and other manufacturers for packaging, assembly and testing of our products. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility and do not have the resources to manufacture our products internally. Our wafers are fabricated by Infineon Technologies AG, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (“SMIC”), Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation and Toshiba Corporation. Although we have well established relationships with each of these suppliers, including an equity investment in SMIC, the wafers used in each of our products are fabricated by only one of these manufacturers. 19 Table of Contents Sole sourcing each product increases our dependence on our suppliers. We have limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields, potential errors in manufacturing and production costs. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our third-party manufacturers or packaging, assembly and testing contractors, so they are not obligated to supply us with products for any specific period of time, quantity or price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. From time to time, our suppliers increase prices charged to produce our products with little notice. If the prices charged by our contract manufacturers increase we may increase our prices, which could harm our competitiveness. Our requirements represent only a small portion of the total production capacity of our contract manufacturers, who have in the past re-allocated capacity to other customers even during periods of high demand for our products. We expect this may occur again in the future. If we are unable to obtain our products from our contract manufacturers on schedule, our ability to satisfy customer demand will be harmed and revenue from the sale of products may be lost or delayed. If orders for our products are cancelled, expected revenue would not be realized. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2005, one of our contract manufacturers experienced temporary manufacturing delays due to unexpected manufacturing process problems, which caused delays in delivery of our products and made it difficult for us to satisfy our customer demand. If we have to qualify a new foundry or packaging, assembly and testing supplier for any of our products, we may experience delays that result in lost revenue and damaged customer relationships. Our products require manufacturing with state-of-the-art fabrication equipment and techniques, and the wafers manufactured for any one of our products are not fabricated by more than supplier. Because the lead-time needed to establish a relationship with a new contract manufacturer is at least nine months, and the estimated time for us to adapt a product’s design to a particular contract manufacturer’s process is at least four months, there is no readily available alternative supply source for any specific product. This could cause significant delays in shipping products, which may result in lost revenue and damaged customer relationships. Manufacturers of our semiconductor products periodically discontinue manufacturing processes, which could make our products unavailable from our current suppliers. Semiconductor manufacturing technologies change rapidly and manufacturers typically discontinue older manufacturing processes in favor of newer ones. For instance, a portion of our products use embedded dynamic random access memory, (“DRAM”) technology, which requires manufacturing processes that are being phased out. We also utilize 0.18um, 0.15um and 0.13um standard logic processes, which may only be available for the next five to seven years. Once a manufacturer makes the decision to retire a manufacturing process, notice is generally given to its customers. Customers will then either retire the affected part or develop a new version of the part that can be manufactured with a newer process. In the event that a manufacturing process is discontinued, our current suppliers may not be able to manufacture our current products. Additionally, migrating to a new, more advanced process requires significant expenditures for research and development and takes significant time. For example in the third quarter of 2006, one of our third-party foundries discontinued the manufacturing process used to produce one of our products. While we were able to place last time buy orders, we underestimated demand for this part. As a result, we had to pay additional amounts to the foundry to restart production and we were unable to fulfill customer orders in a timely manner. We are dependent on our foundries to implement complex semiconductor technologies and our operations could be adversely affected if those technologies are unavailable, delayed or inefficiently implemented. In order to increase performance and functionality and reduce the size of our products, we are continuously developing new products using advanced technologies that further miniaturize semiconductors. However, we are dependent on our foundries to develop and provide access to the advanced processes that enable such miniaturization. We cannot be certain that future advanced manufacturing processes will be implemented without difficulties, delays or increased expenses. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if advanced manufacturing processes are unavailable to us, substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. 20 Table of Contents Our highly integrated products and high-speed mixed signal products are difficult to manufacture without defects and the existence of defects could result in increased costs, delays in the availability of our products, reduced sales of products or claims against us. The manufacture of semiconductors is a complex process and it is often difficult for semiconductor foundries to produce semiconductors free of defects. Because many of our products are more highly integrated than other semiconductors and incorporate mixed analog and digital signal processing and embedded memory technology, they are even more difficult to produce without defects. Defective products can be caused by design or manufacturing difficulties. Therefore, identifying quality problems can occur only by analyzing and testing our semiconductors in a system after they have been manufactured. The difficulty in identifying defects is compounded because the process technology is unique to each of the multiple semiconductor foundries we contract with to manufacture our products. Despite testing by both our customers and us, errors or performance problems may be found in existing or new semiconductors. Failure to achieve defect-free products may result in increased costs and delays in the availability of our products. Additionally, customers could seek damages from us for their losses and shipments of defective products may harm our reputation with our customers. We have experienced field failures of our semiconductors in certain customer system applications that required us to institute additional testing. As a result of these field failures, we incurred warranty costs due to customers returning potentially affected products. Our customers have also experienced delays in receiving product shipments from us that resulted in the loss of revenue and profits. Shipments of defective products could cause us to lose customers or incur significant replacement costs, either of which would harm our business. We use a customer owned tooling process for manufacturing many of our products which exposes us to the possibility of poor yields and unacceptably high product costs. We are building many of our products on a customer owned tooling basis, also known in the semiconductor industry as COT, where we directly contract the manufacture of wafers and assume the responsibility for the assembly and testing of our products. As a result, we are subject to increased risks arising from wafer manufacturing yields and risks associated with coordination of the manufacturing, assembly and testing process. Poor product yields would result in higher product costs, which could make our products uncompetitive if we increased our prices or could result in low gross profit margins if we did not increase our prices. Shortages of materials used in the manufacturing of our products may increase our costs or limit our revenue and impair our ability to ship our products on time. From time to time, shortages of materials that are used in our products may occur. In particular, we may experience shortages of semiconductor wafers and packages. If material shortages occur, we may incur additional costs or be unable to ship our products to our customers in a timely fashion, both of which could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Shortages of other key components for our customers’ products could delay our ability to sell our products. Shortages of components and other materials that are critical to the design and manufacture of our customers’ products could limit our sales. These components include display components, analog-to-digital converters, digital receivers and video decoders. Integration of software with our products adds complexity and cost that may affect our ability to achieve design wins and may affect our profitability. The integration of software with our products adds complexity, may extend our internal development programs and could impact our customers’ development schedules. This complexity requires increased coordination between hardware and software development schedules and may increase our operating expenses without a 21 Table of Contents corresponding increase in product revenue. This additional level of complexity lengthens the sales cycle and may result in customers selecting competitive products requiring less software integration. Our software development tools may be incompatible with industry standards and challenging to implement, which could slow product development or cause us to lose customers and design wins. We provide software development tools to help customers evaluate our products and bring them into production. Software development is a complex process and we are dependent on software development languages and operating systems from vendors that may compromise our ability to design software in a timely manner. Also, as software tools and interfaces change rapidly, new software languages introduced to the market may be incompatible with our existing systems and tools. New software development languages may not be compatible with our own, requiring significant engineering efforts to migrate our existing systems in order to be compatible with those new languages. Existing or new software development tools could make our current products obsolete or hard to use. Software development disruptions could slow our product development or cause us to lose customers and design wins. International sales account for almost all of our revenue, and if we do not successfully address the risks associated with our international operations, our revenue could decrease. Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 96% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. We anticipate that sales outside the U.S. will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in future periods. In addition, customers who incorporate our products into their products sell a substantial portion of their products outside of the U.S., and all of our products are manufactured outside of the U.S. We are, therefore, subject to many international risks, including, but not limited to: • increased difficulties in managing international distributors and manufacturers due to varying time zones, languages and business customs; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations in the currencies of Japan, the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”), Taiwan or Korea that could result in an increase in our operating expenses and cost of procuring our semiconductors; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • difficulties regarding timing and availability of export and import licenses, which have limited our ability to freely move demonstration equipment and samples in and out of Asia; • political and economic instability, particularly in the PRC, Japan, Taiwan, or Korea; • reduced or limited protection of our IP, significant amounts of which are contained in software, which is more prone to design piracy; • increased transaction costs related to sales transactions conducted outside of the U.S., such as charges to secure letters of credit; • increased risk of internal control weaknesses for key processes transferred to our Asian operations; • difficulties in maintaining sales representatives outside of the U.S. that are knowledgeable about our industry and products; • changes in the regulatory environment in the PRC, Japan, Taiwan and Korea that may significantly impact purchases of our products by our customers; • outbreaks of SARS, bird flu or other pandemics in the PRC or other parts of Asia; and • difficulties in collecting outstanding accounts receivable balances. 22 Table of Contents Our presence and investment within the People’s Republic of China subjects us to risks of economic and political instability in the area, which could adversely impact our results of operations. A substantial, and potentially increasing, portion of our products are manufactured by foundries located in the PRC. In addition, approximately 48% of our employees are located in this area and we have an investment of $10.0 million in SMIC, located in Shanghai, China. Disruptions from natural disasters, health epidemics (including new outbreaks of SARS or bird flu) and political, social and economic instability may affect the region and would have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, the economy of the PRC differs from the economies of many countries in respects such as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, self-sufficiency, rate of inflation and balance of payments position, among others. In the past, the economy of the PRC has been primarily a planned economy subject to state plans. Since the entry of the PRC into the World Trade Organization in 2002, the PRC government has been reforming its economic and political systems. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social change. We cannot be assured that the PRC’s policies for economic reforms will be consistent or effective. Our results of operations and financial position may be harmed by changes in the PRC’s political, economic or social conditions. The concentration of our manufacturers and customers in the same geographic region increases our risk that a natural disaster, labor strike or political unrest could disrupt our operations. Most of our current manufacturers and customers are located in the PRC, Japan, Korea or Taiwan. The risk of earthquakes in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines in the area. Common consequences of earthquakes include power outages and disruption and/or impairment of production capacity. Earthquakes, fire, flooding, power outages and other natural disasters in the Pacific Rim region, or political unrest, labor strikes or work stoppages in countries where our manufacturers and customers are located, likely would result in the disruption of our manufacturers’ and customers’ operations. Any disruption resulting from extraordinary events could cause significant delays in shipments of our products until we are able to shift our manufacturing from the affected contractor to another third-party vendor. There can be no assurance that alternative capacity could be obtained on favorable terms, if at all. Decreased effectiveness of share-based payment awards could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees, officers and directors. We have historically used stock options and other forms of share-based payment awards as key components of our total compensation program in order to retain employees and directors and to provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, (“SFAS 123R”), we began recording stock-based compensation expense for share-based awards in the first quarter of 2006. As a result, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant compensation costs associated with our share-based programs, making it more expensive for us to grant share-based payment awards to employees, officers and directors. We continually review our equity compensation strategy in light of current regulatory and competitive environments and consider changes to the program as appropriate. In addition, to the extent that SFAS 123R makes it more expensive to grant stock options or to continue to have an employee stock purchase plan, we may decide to incur cash compensation costs in the future. Actions that we take to reduce stock-based compensation expense that might be more aggressive than actions implemented by our competitors could make it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, which could adversely affect our competitive position as well as our business and results of operations. As a result of reviewing our equity compensation strategy, in 2006 we reduced the total number of options granted to employees and the number of employees who receive share-based payment awards. We may be unable to successfully integrate any future acquisition or equity investment we make, which could disrupt our business and severely harm our financial condition. We may not be able to successfully integrate businesses, products, technologies or personnel of any entity that we might acquire in the future, and any failure to do so could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition. In addition, if we acquire any company with weak internal controls, it will take time to get 23 Table of Contents the acquired company up to a level of operating effectiveness acceptable to us and to implement adequate internal control, management, financial and operating reporting systems. Our inability to address these risks could negatively affect our operating results. To date, we have acquired Panstera, Inc. (“Panstera”), in January 2001, nDSP Corporation (“nDSP”) in January 2002, Jaldi Semiconductor Corporation (“Jaldi”) in September 2002 and Equator Technologies, Inc. (“Equator”) in June 2005. In March 2003, we announced the execution of a definitive merger agreement with Genesis Microchip, Inc.; however, the merger was terminated in August 2003, and we incurred $8.9 million of expenses related to the transaction. In the third quarter of 2003, we made an investment of $10.0 million in SMIC. The acquisitions of Panstera, nDSP, Jaldi and Equator contained a very high level of risk primarily because the investments were made based on unproven technological developments that may not have been completed, or if completed, may not have become commercially viable. These and any future acquisitions and investments could result in any of the following negative events, among others: • issuance of stock that dilutes current shareholders’ percentage ownership; • incurrence of debt; • assumption of liabilities; • amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets; • impairment of goodwill; • large and immediate write-offs; or • decreases in cash and marketable securities that could otherwise serve as working capital. Our operation of any acquired business will also involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: • problems combining the acquired operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations. The acquisition of Equator has not been as successful as we had anticipated. We acquired Equator for an aggregate purchase price of $118.1 million and recorded, among other assets, $57.5 million in goodwill, $36.8 million in acquired developed technology and $4.2 million in other acquired intangible assets. However, the Equator technology has not proven as useful as we had hoped, and thus we have recorded impairment losses on goodwill and intangible assets acquired from Equator. Only $5.6 million of the developed technology and $164,000 of the customer relationship intangible assets acquired from Equator remain on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2007 and only a few of the Equator employees remain employed by us. Additionally, while we are continuing to provide customers with existing products, we are no longer pursuing stand-alone advanced media processor markets that are not core to our business. We cannot assure you that any future acquisitions we make will be successful or will result in increased revenue or market share. 24 Table of Contents Environmental laws and regulations have caused us to incur, and may cause us to continue to incur, significant expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or to incur significant penalties for noncompliance. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could require us to incur substantial expenses which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, during 2006 the European Parliament enacted the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS, which restricts the sale of new electrical and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous substances, including lead. In 2006, we incurred increased inventory provisions as a result of the enactment of RoHS, which adversely affected our gross profit margin. Additionally during 2006, the European Parliament enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or WEEE Directive, which makes producers of electrical and electronic equipment financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Additionally, some jurisdictions have begun to require various levels of Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (“EPEAT”) certification, which are based on the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 1680 standard. The highest levels of EPEAT certification restrict the usage of halogen. Although our older generation products, many of which are still shipping to customers, do contain halogen, our next generation designs do not. We have worked, and will continue to work, with our suppliers and customers to ensure that our products are compliant with enacted laws and regulations. Failure of us or our contract manufacturers to comply with such legislation could result in customers refusing to purchase our products and could subject us to significant monetary penalties in connection with a violation, both of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over time, imposing even greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of our inability to obtain permits, human error, equipment failure or other causes. Risks Related to Our Industry Failure of consumer demand for advanced displays and other digital display technologies to increase would impede our growth and adversely affect our business. Our product development strategies anticipate that consumer demand for multimedia projectors, advanced televisions and other emerging display technologies will increase in the future. The success of our products is dependent on increased demand for these display technologies. The potential size of the market for products incorporating these display technologies and the timing of its development are uncertain and will depend upon a number of factors, all of which are beyond our control. In order for the market in which we participate to grow, advanced display products must be widely available and affordable to consumers. In the past, the supply of advanced display products has been cyclical. We expect this pattern to continue. Under-capacity in the advanced display market may limit our ability to increase our revenue because our customers may limit their purchases of our products if they cannot obtain sufficient supplies of advanced display components. In addition, advanced display prices may remain high because of limited supply, and consumer demand may not grow. Intense competition in our markets may reduce sales of our products, reduce our market share, decrease our gross profit and result in large losses. Rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, compressed product life cycles and declining average selling prices are characteristics of our market and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As the overall price of advanced flat panel displays continues to fall, we may be required to offer our products to manufacturers at discounted prices due to increased price competition. At the same time, new alternative technologies and industry standards may emerge that directly compete with technologies we offer. We may be required to increase our investment in research and development at the same time that product prices are falling. In addition, even after making this investment, 25 Table of Contents we cannot assure you that our technologies will be superior to those of our competitors or that our products will achieve market acceptance, whether for performance or price reasons. Failure to effectively respond to these trends could reduce the demand for our products. We compete with specialized and diversified electronics and semiconductor companies that offer display processors or scaling components. Some of these include ATI Technologies Inc., Broadcom Corporation, i-Chips Technologies Inc., ITE Tech. Inc., Jepico Corp., Macronix International Co., Ltd., MediaTek Inc., Media Reality Technologies Inc., Micronas Semiconductor Holding AG, MStar Semiconductor, Inc., Realtek Semiconductor Corp., Renesas Technology Corp., Sigma Designs, Inc., Silicon Image, Inc., Silicon Optix Inc., STMicroelectronics N.V., Sunplus Technology Co., Ltd., Techwell, Inc., Topro Technology Inc., Trident Microsystems, Inc., Trumpion Microelectronics Inc., Weltrend Semiconductor, Inc., Zoran Corporation and other companies. Potential competitors may include diversified semiconductor manufacturers and the semiconductor divisions or affiliates of some of our customers, including Intel Corporation, LG Electronics, Inc., Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Digital Electronics America, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation, NEC Corporation, NVIDIA Corporation, NXP Semiconductors, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., SANYO Electric Co., Ltd., Seiko Epson Corporation, Sharp Electronics Corporation, Sony Corporation, Texas Instruments Incorporated and Toshiba America, Inc. In addition, start-up companies may seek to compete in our markets. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources to support development and marketing efforts than we do. Some of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities. These competitors may be able to react more quickly and devote more resources to efforts that compete directly with our own. In the future, our current or potential customers may also develop their own proprietary technologies and become our competitors. Our competitors may develop advanced technologies enabling them to offer more cost-effective products. Increased competition could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations by, for example, increasing pressure on our profit margin or causing us to lose sales opportunities. We cannot assure you that we can compete successfully against current or potential competitors. If products incorporating our semiconductors are not compatible with computer display protocols, video standards and other devices, the market for our products will be reduced and our business prospects could be significantly limited. Our products are incorporated into our customers’ products, which have different parts and specifications and utilize multiple protocols that allow them to be compatible with specific computers, video standards and other devices. If our customers’ products are not compatible with these protocols and standards, consumers will return, or not purchase, these products and the markets for our customers’ products could be significantly reduced. As a result, a portion of our market would be eliminated, and our business would be harmed. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may lead to significant variances in the demand for our products and could harm our operations. In the past, the semiconductor industry has been characterized by significant downturns and wide fluctuations in supply and demand. Also, during this time, the industry has experienced significant fluctuations in anticipation of changes in general economic conditions, including economic conditions in Asia and North America. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has led to significant variances in product demand and production capacity. We may experience periodic fluctuations in our future financial results because of changes in industry-wide conditions. 26 Table of Contents Other Risks The price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate substantially. We have received notice from the NASDAQ Global Market (the “Market”) that our stock no longer meets the minimum requirements for continued listing on the Market. Even if our common stock is not delisted, investors may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at or above the price they paid due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • actual reduction in our operating results due to the adoption of SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006, which requires the expensing of stock options; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations, design wins, contracts, standards or acquisitions; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • announcements of future expectations by our customers; • changes in market valuations of other technology companies; • inconsistent trading volume levels of our common stock; and • additional future communications from NASDAQ concerning delisting or potential delisting. The stock prices of technology companies similar to Pixelworks have been highly volatile. Market fluctuations as well as general economic and political conditions, including recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Therefore, the price of our common stock may decline, and the value of your investment may be reduced regardless of our performance. Any scenario in which investors may not be able to realize gain when they sell our common stock would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and to raise capital. The anti-takeover provisions of Oregon law and in our articles of incorporation could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock by preventing a sale or takeover of us at a price or prices favorable to the holders of our common stock. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Oregon law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of us, making a merger or acquisition of us less desirable to a potential acquirer or preventing a change in our management, even if the shareholders consider the merger or acquisition favorable or if doing so would benefit our shareholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The following are examples of such provisions in our articles of incorporation or bylaws: • our board of directors is authorized, without prior shareholder approval, to change the size of the board. Our articles of incorporation provide that if the board is increased to eight or more members, the board will be divided into three classes serving staggered terms, which would make it more difficult for a group of shareholders to quickly change the composition of our board; • our board of directors is authorized, without prior shareholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us or change our control, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock; 27 Table of Contents • members of our board of directors can only be removed for cause and at a meeting of shareholders called expressly for that purpose, by the vote of 75 percent of the votes then entitled to be cast for the election of directors; • the board of directors may alter our bylaws without obtaining shareholder approval; and • shareholders are required to provide advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon at a shareholder meeting. We may be unable to meet our future capital requirements, which would limit our ability to grow. As of December 31, 2007, we had $140.0 million of unsecured convertible bonds outstanding and $119.0 million in cash and marketable securities, resulting in a net cash deficit position. In January 2008 we commenced a modified dutch auction tender offer for a portion of the outstanding debentures. The tender offer expired on February 28, 2008 and on March 5, 2008, we announced that we had accepted for purchase approximately $50.2 million aggregate principal amount of our convertible debentures at a total cost of approximately $37.5 million. The remaining outstanding debentures of approximately $89.8 million have a put date of May 15, 2011. On September 25, 2007, we announced a share repurchase program under which the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $10.0 million of our common stock over the following twelve months. During 2007 we repurchased 3,782,500 common shares at a cost of $4.3 million. As of December 31, 2007, $5.7 million remained available for repurchase under the plan. While we believe that our current cash and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the next twelve months, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future to refinance or service the potential exercise of the put option on the convertible bonds. We may need, or could elect to seek, additional funding prior to that time through public or private equity or debt financing. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or our shareholders. Furthermore, if we issue equity securities, our shareholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Continued compliance with new regulatory and accounting requirements will be challenging and will require significant resources. We are spending a significant amount of management time and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations and NASDAQ Global Market rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of internal control over financial reporting. The process of documenting and testing internal control over financial reporting has required that we hire additional personnel and outside services and has resulted in higher accounting and legal expenses. While we invested significant time and money in our effort to evaluate and test our internal control over financial reporting, a material weakness was identified in our internal control over financial reporting in 2004. Although the material weakness was remediated in the first quarter of 2005, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of internal controls and procedures, including cost limitations, the possibility of human error, judgments and assumptions regarding the likelihood of future events, and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective controls and procedures can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 28 Table of Contents 