Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our shares of common stock involves a high degree of risk, and investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks occur, the market price of our shares of common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Additional risks that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, and our other filings made from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Macroeconomic Risks Related to the Company The current adverse global economic environment and volatility in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Financial, commercial and consumer markets may continue to experience extreme disruption and there can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration of these markets. While we do not currently require access to credit markets to finance our operations, these economic developments have adversely affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our business in a number of ways. For instance, the economic crisis has decreased, and may continue to decrease, market acceptance of, and reduce the demand for, our products and the success of our product strategy. We face an increased risk that our customers and suppliers, who may experience decreased revenue and difficulty obtaining financing, will be unable to make significant purchases and continue their operations. It may become more difficult for us to collect payments from our customers on a timely basis, or at all, and our suppliers may not be able to maintain their production capacity and fulfill our orders on a timely basis, or at all. This has resulted, and could continue to result, in a decrease or cancellation of orders for our products. As a result of the worldwide economic slowdown, it is difficult for us and our customers to forecast future sales levels based on historical information and trends. Portions of our expenses are fixed and other expenses are tied to expected levels of sales activities. To the extent that we do not achieve our anticipated levels of sales, our gross profit and net income could continue to be adversely affected until such expenses are reduced to an appropriate level. Additionally, if we are unable to reduce our costs to respond to future decreases in revenue, we may utilize more of our cash resources than we planned. Any future actions that we take to limit our usage of cash may also reduce our ability to execute our plans and strategies, which may weaken our competitive positioning and cause us to lose market share. We are unable to predict the duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries. Company Specific Risks Our product strategy, which is targeted at markets demanding superior video and image quality, may not lead to new design wins or significantly increased revenue in a timely manner or at all, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and limit our ability to grow. We have adopted a product strategy that focuses on our core competencies in pixel processing and delivering high levels of video and image quality. With this strategy, we continue to make further investments in the development of our ImageProcessor architecture for the digital projector market, with particular focus on 9 Table of Contents adding increased performance and functionality. For the advanced television market, we are shifting away from our previous approach of implementing our intellectual property (“IP”) exclusively in system-on-chip integrated circuits (“ICs”), to an approach designed to improve video performance of our customers’ image processors through the use of our line of Motion Estimation Motion Compensation (“MEMC”) co-processor ICs. This strategy is designed to address the needs of the large-screen, high-resolution, high-quality segment of the television market. Although our new product strategy is developed to take advantage of market trends, such markets may not develop or may take longer to develop than we expect. We cannot assure you that the products we are developing will adequately address the demands of our target customers, or that we will be able to produce our new products at costs that enable us to price these products competitively. Even if our new product strategy is properly targeted, we cannot assure you that the products we are developing will lead to a significant increase in revenue from new design wins. To achieve design wins, we must design and deliver cost-effective, innovative and integrated semiconductors that overcome the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier and which make developers reluctant to change component sources. Further, design wins do not necessarily result in developers ordering large volumes of our products. Developers can choose at any time to discontinue using our products in their designs or product development efforts. A design win is not a binding commitment by a developer to purchase our products, but rather a decision by a developer to use our products in its design process. Even if our products are chosen to be incorporated into a developer’s products, we may still not realize significant revenue from the developer if its products are not commercially successful or it chooses to qualify, or incorporate the products, of a second source. If we are not profitable in the future, we may be unable to continue our operations. Excluding gains on the repurchase of our convertible subordinated debentures, 2004 is our only year of profitability since inception and we have incurred operating losses since 2004. If and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to develop and market innovative products, accurately estimate inventory needs, contract effectively for manufacturing capacity and maintain sufficient funds to finance our activities. If we are not profitable in the future, we may be unable to continue our operations. We have incurred indebtedness as a result of the sale of convertible debentures. We anticipate that we must repay or refinance the debentures by May 2011. We may be unable to meet this, or other, future capital requirements. As of December 31, 2009, $15.8 million of our 1.75% convertible subordinated debentures were outstanding. Although the debentures are not due until 2024, the holders have the right to require us to purchase all or a portion of the debentures at each of the following dates: May 15, 2011, May 15, 2014 and May 15, 2019. Since the market price of our common stock is significantly below the conversion price of the debentures, we expect the holders to exercise their put option on May 15, 2011. We may not be able to refinance the debentures at terms that are as favorable as those currently contained in the debentures, or at terms that are acceptable to us at all. While we believe that our current cash and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the next twelve months, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain sufficient cash and marketable security balances to refinance or pay off the debentures when and if the put option is exercised, or that such a repurchase would not result in cash reserves too low for us to continue our business as a going concern. We may need, or could elect to seek, additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing, which we may not be able to obtain. If we issue equity securities, our shareholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. 10 Table of Contents Because of our long product development process and sales cycles, we may incur substantial costs before we earn associated revenue and ultimately may not sell as many units of our products as we originally anticipated. We develop products based on anticipated market and customer requirements and incur substantial product development expenditures, which can include the payment of large up-front, third-party license fees and royalties, prior to generating associated revenue. Our work under these projects is technically challenging and places considerable demands on our limited resources, particularly on our most senior engineering talent. Because the development of our products incorporates not only our complex and evolving technology but also our customers’ specific requirements, a lengthy sales process is often required before potential customers begin the technical evaluation of our products. Our customers typically perform numerous tests and extensively evaluate our products before incorporating them into their systems. The time required for testing, evaluation and design of our products into a customer’s system can take up to nine months or more. It can take an additional nine months or longer before a customer commences volume shipments of systems that incorporate our products. We cannot assure you that the time required for the testing, evaluation and design of our products by our customers would not be significantly longer than nine months. Because of the lengthy development and sales cycles, we will experience delays between the time we incur expenditures for research and development, sales and marketing and inventory and the time we generate revenue, if any, from these expenditures. Additionally, if actual sales volumes for a particular product are substantially less than originally anticipated, we may experience large write-offs of capitalized license fees, software development tools, product masks, inventories or other capitalized or deferred product-related costs, or increased amortization of non-cancelable prepaid royalties, any of which would negatively affect our operating results. For example, our provisions for obsolete inventory were $1.2 million, $1.5 million and $4.4 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Additionally, in 2007, we wrote off assets with a net book value of $6.9 million due to reductions in research and development personnel and changes in product development strategy. We may be unable to successfully manage any future expansion efforts, including the integration of any future acquisition or equity investment, which could disrupt our business and severely harm our financial condition. We may determine that it is beneficial to increase our capacity to develop new and enhanced products in the future as the economy recovers. If we do not manage any internal expansion efforts effectively, our operating expenses could increase more rapidly than our revenue, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. To manage any future expansion efforts effectively in a rapidly evolving market, we must be able to maintain and improve our operational and financial systems, train and manage our employee base and attract and retain qualified personnel with relevant experience. We must also manage multiple relationships with customers, business partners, contract manufacturers, suppliers and other third parties. We could spend substantial amounts of time and money in connection with expansion efforts for which we may not realize any profit. Our systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support our operations and we may not be able to expand quickly enough to exploit potential market opportunities. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate the businesses, products, technologies or personnel of any entity that we might acquire in the future, and any failure to do so could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition. Our operation of any acquired business would involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: • problems combining the acquired operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs; • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; 11 Table of Contents • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations; and • risks associated with implementing adequate internal control, management, financial and operating reporting systems. Any future acquisitions and investments could also result in any of the following negative events, among others: • issuance of stock that dilutes current shareholders’ percentage ownership; • incurrence of debt; • assumption of liabilities; • amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets; • impairment of goodwill; • large and immediate write-offs; and • decreases in cash and marketable securities that could otherwise serve as working capital. A significant amount of our revenue comes from a limited number of customers and distributors, exposing us to increased credit risk and subjecting our cash flow to the risk that any of our customers or distributors could decrease or cancel its orders. The display manufacturing market is highly concentrated and we are, and will continue to be, dependent on a limited number of customers and distributors for a substantial portion of our revenue. Sales to our top distributor represented 35%, 32% and 33% of revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Revenue attributable to our top five end customers represented 56%, 55% and 47% of revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had three accounts that each represented 10% or more of accounts receivable. A reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers, or a decision by one or more of our significant customers to select products manufactured by a competitor or to use its own internally-developed semiconductors, would significantly impact our revenue. Further, the concentration of our accounts receivable with a limited number of customers increases our credit risk. The failure of these customers to pay their balances, or any customer to pay future outstanding balances, would result in an operating expense and reduce our cash flows. Our dependence on selling to distributors and integrators increases the complexity of managing our supply chain and may result in excess inventory or inventory shortages. Selling to distributors and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) that build display devices based on specifications provided by branded suppliers, also referred to as integrators, reduces our ability to forecast sales accurately and increases the complexity of our business. Our sales are made on the basis of customer purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our distributors, integrators and customers may cancel or defer purchase orders at any time but we must order wafer inventory from our contract manufacturers three to four months in advance. The estimates we use for our advance orders from contract manufacturers are based, in part, on reports of inventory levels and production forecasts from our distributors and integrators, which act as intermediaries between us and the companies using our products. This process requires us to make numerous assumptions concerning demand and to rely on the accuracy of the reports and forecasts of our distributors and integrators, each of which may introduce error into our estimates of inventory requirements. These arrangements make it difficult to monitor the financial condition and creditworthiness of our distributors, integrators and customers and to predict demand for our products. Our failure to manage one or more of these challenges could result in excess inventory or inventory shortages that could materially impact our operating results or limit the ability of companies using our semiconductors to deliver their products. For example, we overestimated demand for certain of our products which led to significant charges for obsolete inventory in 2009, 2008 and 2007. On the 12 Table of Contents other hand, if we underestimate demand, or if sufficient manufacturing capacity is not available, we would forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. Dependence on a limited number of sole-source, third-party manufacturers for our products exposes us to shortages based on capacity allocation or low manufacturing yield, errors in manufacturing, price increases with little notice, volatile inventory levels and delays in product delivery, which could result in delays in satisfying customer demand, increased costs and loss of revenue. We contract with three third-party foundries for wafer fabrication and other manufacturers for packaging, assembly and testing of our products. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility and do not have the resources to manufacture our products internally. The wafers used in each of our products are fabricated by only one of these manufacturers. Sole sourcing each product increases our dependence on our suppliers. We have limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields, potential errors in manufacturing and production costs. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our third-party manufacturers, so they are not obligated to supply us with products for any specific period of time, quantity or price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. From time to time, our suppliers increase the prices of the products we purchase from them with little notice, which may cause us to increase the prices to our customers and harm our competitiveness. Because our requirements represent only a small portion of the total production capacity of our contract manufacturers, they are more likely to, and have in the past, reallocated capacity to other customers even during periods of high demand for our products. We expect this may occur again in the future. Establishing a relationship with a new contract manufacturer in the event of delays or increased prices with our current contract manufacturers would be costly and cumbersome. The lead time to make such a change would be at least nine months, and the estimated time for us to adapt a product’s design to a particular contract manufacturer’s process is at least four months. If we have to qualify a new foundry or packaging, assembly and testing supplier for any of our products or if we are unable to obtain our products from our contract manufacturers on schedule, or at all, we could incur significant delays in shipping products, our ability to satisfy customer demand could be harmed, our revenue from the sale of products may be lost or delayed and our customer relationships and ability to obtain future design wins could be damaged. International sales account for almost all of our revenue, and if we do not successfully address the risks associated with international sales, our revenue could decrease. Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 97%, 95% and 96% of revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We anticipate that sales outside the U.S. will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in future periods. In addition, customers who incorporate our products into their products sell a substantial portion of their products outside of the U.S., and all of our products are manufactured outside of the U.S. We are, therefore, subject to many international risks, including, but not limited to: • increased difficulties in managing international distributors and manufacturers due to varying time zones, languages and business customs; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations in the currencies of Japan, the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”), Taiwan or Korea; • reduced or limited protection of our IP, particularly in software, which is more prone to design piracy; • difficulties in collecting outstanding accounts receivable balances; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • difficulties regarding timing and availability of export and import licenses; • political and economic instability, particularly in the PRC, Japan, Taiwan, or Korea; 13 Table of Contents • difficulties in maintaining sales representatives outside of the U.S. that are knowledgeable about our industry and products; • changes in the regulatory environment in the PRC, Japan, Taiwan and Korea that may significantly impact purchases of our products by our customers; • outbreaks of health epidemics in the PRC or other parts of Asia; and • increased transaction costs related to sales transactions conducted outside of the U.S., such as charges to secure letters of credit. Our future success depends upon the continued services of key personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace, and the loss of one or more of these employees could seriously harm our business by delaying product development. We believe our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified hardware and software engineers, sales, marketing, finance and managerial personnel. Competition for talented personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our key personnel or identify, attract or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. Because of the highly technical nature of our business, the loss of key engineering personnel could delay product introductions and significantly impair our ability to successfully create future products. If we do not succeed in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications, our product development efforts, revenue and business could be seriously harmed. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. In the last three years a significant portion of our executive management team has turned over, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Sales, Vice President of Marketing, Vice President of Business Operations and Vice President, Strategy and Market Development. If we engage in further restructuring efforts, we may be unable to successfully implement new products or enhancements to our current products, which will adversely affect our future sales and financial condition. In 2006, we initiated restructuring plans aimed at returning the Company to profitability. In December 2008, we initiated an additional restructuring plan to reduce our operating expenses in response to decreases in current and forecasted revenue. The December 2008 plan reduced operations, research and development and administrative headcount in our San Jose, Taiwan and China offices and was completed during the second quarter of 2009. The restructuring plans and any additional reductions in headcount may slow our development of new or enhanced products by limiting our research and development and engineering activities. If we are unable to successfully introduce new or enhanced products, our sales and financial condition will be adversely affected. The concentration of our manufacturers and customers in the PRC, Japan, Korea and Taiwan increases our risk that a natural disaster, work stoppages or economic or political instability in the region could disrupt our operations. Most of our current manufacturers and customers are located in the PRC, Japan, Korea or Taiwan. In addition, a significant percentage of our employees are located in this region. Disruptions from natural disasters, health epidemics and political, social and economic instability may affect the region and would have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, the economy of the PRC differs from the economies of many countries in respects such as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, self-sufficiency, rate of inflation, foreign currency flows and balance of payments position, among others. We cannot be assured that the PRC’s economic policies will be consistent or effective. Our results of operations and financial position may be harmed by changes in the PRC’s political, economic or social conditions. In addition, the risk of earthquakes in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines in the area. Common consequences of earthquakes include power outages and disruption or impairment of production capacity. Earthquakes, fire, flooding, power outages and other natural disasters in 14 Table of Contents the Pacific Rim region, or political unrest, labor strikes or work stoppages in countries where our manufacturers and customers are located, would likely result in the disruption of our manufacturers’ and customers’ operations. Any disruption resulting from extraordinary events could cause significant delays in shipments of our products until we are able to shift our manufacturing from the affected contractor to another third-party vendor. There can be no assurance that alternative capacity could be obtained on favorable terms, or in a timely manner, if at all. Continued compliance with regulatory and accounting requirements will be challenging and will require significant resources. We spend a significant amount of management time and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including evolving Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations, NASDAQ Global Market rules and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management’s annual review and evaluation of internal control over financial reporting. While we invest significant time and money in our effort to evaluate and test our internal control over financial reporting and assess our risk management strategies, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of internal controls and procedures, including cost limitations, the possibility of human error, judgments and assumptions regarding the likelihood of future events, and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective controls and procedures can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives. Additionally, one of the covenants of the indenture governing the debentures could possibly be interpreted such that if we are late with any of our required filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), and if we fail to affect a cure within 60 days, the holders of the debentures can put the debentures back to the Company, whereby the debentures become immediately due and payable. As a result of our restructuring efforts, we have fewer employees to perform day-to-day controls, processes and activities and, additionally, certain functions have been transferred to new employees who are not as familiar with our procedures. These changes increase the risk that we will be unable to make timely filings in accordance with the Exchange Act. Any resulting default under our debentures would have a material adverse effect on our cash position and operating results. Our effective income tax rate is subject to unanticipated changes in, or different interpretations of tax rules and regulations and forecasting our effective income tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty. As a global company, we are subject to taxation by a number of taxing authorities and as such, our tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Unanticipated change in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws either in the United States or abroad, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. The ultimate outcomes of any future tax audits are uncertain, and we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of them would have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. The computation of income tax expense (benefit) is complex as it is based on the laws of numerous tax jurisdictions and requires significant judgment on the application of complicated rules governing accounting for tax provision under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Income tax expense (benefit) for interim quarters is based on a forecast of our global tax rate for the year, which includes forward looking financial projections, including the expectations of profit and loss by jurisdiction, and contains numerous assumptions. For these reasons, our global tax rate may be materially different than our forecast. 15 Table of Contents Company Risks Related to the Semiconductor Industry and Our Markets Intense competition in our markets may reduce sales of our products, reduce our market share, decrease our gross profit and result in large losses. Rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and customer requirements, compressed product life cycles and declining average selling prices are characteristics of our market and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As the overall price of digital projectors and advanced flat panel displays continues to fall, we may be required to offer our products to customers at discounted prices due to increased price competition. At the same time, new alternative technologies and industry standards may emerge that directly compete with technologies we offer. We may be required to increase our investment in research and development at the same time that product prices are falling. In addition, even after making this investment, we cannot assure you that our technologies will be superior to those of our competitors or that our products will achieve market acceptance, whether for performance or price reasons. Failure to effectively respond to these trends could reduce the demand for our products. We compete with specialized and diversified electronics and semiconductor companies that offer display processors or scaling components. Some of these include Broadcom Corporation, i-Chips Technologies Inc., Integrated Device Technology, Inc., MediaTek Inc., MStar Semiconductor, Inc., Realtek Semiconductor Corp., Renesas Technology Corp., Sigma Designs, Inc., Silicon Image, Inc., STMicroelectronics N.V., Sunplus Technology Co., Ltd., Techwell, Inc., Trident Microsystems, Inc., Zoran Corporation and other companies. Potential and current competitors may include diversified semiconductor manufacturers and the semiconductor divisions or affiliates of some of our customers, including Intel Corporation, LG Electronics, Inc., Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Digital Electronics America, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation, NEC Corporation, NVIDIA Corporation, NXP Semiconductors, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., SANYO Electric Co., Ltd., Seiko Epson Corporation, Sharp Electronics Corporation, Sony Corporation, Texas Instruments Incorporated and Toshiba America, Inc. In addition, start-up companies may seek to compete in our markets. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources to support development and marketing efforts than we do. Some of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities. These competitors may be able to react more quickly and devote more resources to efforts that compete directly with our own. Our current or potential customers have developed, and may continue to develop, their own proprietary technologies and become our competitors. Increased competition from both competitors and our customers’ internal development efforts could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations by, for example, increasing pressure on our profit margin or causing us to lose sales opportunities. We cannot assure you that we can compete successfully against current or potential competitors. The competitiveness and viability of our products could be harmed if necessary licenses of third-party technology are not available to us or are only available on terms that are not commercially viable. We license technology from independent third parties that is incorporated into our products or product enhancements. Future products or product enhancements may require additional third-party licenses that may not be available to us or may not be available on terms that are commercially reasonable. In addition, in the event of a change in control of one of our licensors, it may become difficult to maintain access to its licensed technology. If we are unable to obtain or maintain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements, we may have to obtain substitute technology with lower quality or performance standards, or at greater cost, either of which could seriously harm the competitiveness of our products. Our limited ability to protect our IP and proprietary rights could harm our competitive position by allowing our competitors to access our proprietary technology and to introduce similar products. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology, including our semiconductor designs and software. We provide the computer programming code for our software to customers in connection with their product development 16 Table of Contents efforts, thereby increasing the risk that customers will misappropriate our proprietary software. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to help protect our proprietary technologies. As of December 31, 2009 we held 119 patents and had 40 patent applications pending for protection of our significant technologies. Competitors in both the U.S. and foreign countries, many of whom have substantially greater resources than we do, may apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make and sell our products, or they may develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Effective copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. We cannot assure you that the degree of protection offered by patent or trade secret laws will be sufficient. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any patents will be issued as a result of any pending applications or that any claims allowed under issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Others may bring infringement actions against us that could be time consuming and expensive to defend. We may become subject to claims involving patents or other IP rights. IP claims could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. In addition, IP claims may be brought against customers that incorporate our products in the design of their own products. These claims, regardless of their success or merit and regardless of whether we are named as defendants in a lawsuit, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert the time and attention of management and technical personnel. Any IP litigation or claims also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products using technology that contains the allegedly infringing IP; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant IP, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; • attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing IP; or • pay damages for past infringement claims that are determined to be valid or which are arrived at in settlement of such litigation or threatened litigation. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we may incur significant additional costs or be unable to manufacture and sell our products, which could seriously harm our business. In addition, we may not be able to develop, license or acquire non-infringing technology under reasonable terms. These developments could result in an inability to compete for customers or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. If we are not able to respond to the rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards in the markets in which we compete, or seek to compete, our products may become less desirable or obsolete. The markets in which we compete or seek to compete are subject to rapid technological change and miniaturization capabilities, frequent new product introductions, changing customer requirements for new products and features and evolving industry standards. The introduction of new technologies and emergence of new industry standards could render our products less desirable or obsolete, which could harm our business and significantly decrease our revenue. Examples of changing industry standards include the growing use of broadband to deliver video content, faster screen refresh rates, the proliferation of new display devices and the drive to network display devices together. Our products are incorporated into our customers’ products, which have different parts and specifications and utilize multiple protocols that allow them to be compatible with specific computers, video standards and other devices. If our customers’ products are not compatible with these protocols and standards, consumers will return, or not purchase, these products and the markets for our customers’ products could be significantly reduced. As a result, a portion of our market would be eliminated, and our business would be harmed. 17 Table of Contents We are dependent on manufacturers of our semiconductor products not only to respond to changes in technology and industry standards but also to continue the manufacturing processes on which we rely. To respond effectively to changes in technology and industry standards, we are dependent on our foundries to implement advanced semiconductor technologies and our operations could be adversely affected if those technologies are unavailable, delayed or inefficiently implemented. In order to increase performance and functionality and reduce the size of our products, we are continuously developing new products using advanced technologies that further miniaturize semiconductors and we are dependent on our foundries to develop and provide access to the advanced processes that enable such miniaturization. We cannot be certain that future advanced manufacturing processes will be implemented without difficulties, delays or increased expenses. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if advanced manufacturing processes are unavailable to us, substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. Creating the capacity for new technological changes may cause manufacturers to discontinue older manufacturing processes in favor of newer ones. We must then either retire the affected part or develop a new version of the part that can be manufactured with a newer process. In the event that a manufacturing process is discontinued, our current suppliers may be unwilling or unable to manufacture our current products. We may not be able to place last time buy orders for the old technology or find alternate manufacturers of our products to allow us to continue to produce products with the older technology while we expend the significant costs for research and development and time to migrate to new, more advanced processes. For instance, a portion of our products use embedded dynamic random access memory (“DRAM”) technology, which requires manufacturing processes that are being phased out. We also utilize 0.18um and 0.15um standard logic processes, which may only be available for the next five to seven years. Our software development tools may be incompatible with industry standards and challenging and costly to implement, which could slow product development or cause us to lose customers and design wins. We provide software development tools to help customers evaluate our products and bring them into production. Software development is a complex process and we are dependent on software development languages and operating systems from vendors that may limit our ability to design software in a timely manner. Also, as software tools and interfaces change rapidly, new software languages introduced to the market may be incompatible with our existing systems and tools, requiring significant engineering efforts to migrate our existing systems in order to be compatible with those new languages. Existing or new software development tools could make our current products obsolete or hard to use. Software development disruptions could slow our product development or cause us to lose customers and design wins. The integration of software with our products adds complexity, may extend our internal development programs and could impact our customers’ development schedules. This complexity requires increased coordination between hardware and software development schedules and may increase our operating expenses without a corresponding increase in product revenue. This additional level of complexity lengthens the sales cycle and may result in customers selecting competitive products requiring less software integration. Our highly integrated products and high-speed mixed signal products are difficult to manufacture without defects and the existence of defects could result in increased costs, delays in the availability of our products, reduced sales of products or claims against us. The manufacture of semiconductors is a complex process and it is often difficult for semiconductor foundries to produce semiconductors free of defects. Because many of our products are more highly integrated than other semiconductors and incorporate mixed analog and digital signal processing, multi-chip modules and embedded memory technology, they are even more difficult to produce without defects. Defective products can be caused by design or manufacturing difficulties. Therefore, identifying quality problems can occur only by analyzing and testing our semiconductors in a system after they have been manufactured. The difficulty in identifying defects is compounded because the process technology is unique to each of the multiple semiconductor foundries we contract with to manufacture our products. Despite testing by both our customers and us, errors or performance problems may be found in existing or new semiconductors. 18 Table of Contents Failure to achieve defect-free products may result in increased costs and delays in the availability of our products. Additionally, customers could seek damages from us for their losses and shipments of defective products may harm our reputation with our customers. We have experienced field failures of our semiconductors in certain customer applications that required us to institute additional testing. As a result of these field failures, we incurred warranty costs due to customers returning potentially affected products. Our customers have also experienced delays in receiving product shipments from us that resulted in the loss of revenue and profits. Shipments of defective products could cause us to lose customers or to incur significant replacement costs, either of which would harm our business. We use a customer owned tooling process for manufacturing most of our products which exposes us to the possibility of poor yields and unacceptably high product costs. We are building most of our products on a customer owned tooling basis, also known in the semiconductor industry as COT, where we directly contract the manufacture of wafers and assume the responsibility for the assembly and testing of our products. As a result, we are subject to increased risks arising from wafer manufacturing yields and risks associated with coordination of the manufacturing, assembly and testing process. Poor product yields result in higher product costs, which could make our products less competitive if we increase our prices to compensate for our higher costs, or could result in lower gross profit margins if we do not increase our prices. Shortages of materials used in the manufacturing of our products and other key components of our customers’ products may increase our costs, impair our ability to ship our products on time and delay our ability to sell our products. From time to time, shortages of components and materials that are critical to the design and manufacture of our and our customers’ products may occur. Such critical components and materials include semiconductor wafers and packages, display components, analog-to-digital converters, digital receivers and video decoders. If material shortages occur, we may incur additional costs or be unable to ship our products to our customers in a timely fashion, both of which could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our products are characterized by average selling prices that decline over relatively short periods of time, which will negatively affect our financial results unless we are able to reduce our product costs or introduce new products with higher average selling prices. Average selling prices for our products decline over relatively short periods of time, while many of our product costs are fixed. When our average selling prices decline, our gross profit declines unless we are able to sell more units or reduce the cost to manufacture our products. We have experienced declines in our average selling prices and expect that we will continue to experience them in the future, although we cannot predict when they may occur or how severe they will be. The current crisis in global credit and financial markets may result in more rapid declines in average selling prices as our competitors reduce their prices in attempts to gain market share or as our potential customers have less cash available for purchases and operations and, in some instances, exit the market. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs, adding new features to our existing products or developing new or enhanced products in a timely manner with higher selling prices or gross profits. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may lead to significant variances in the demand for our products and could harm our operations. In the past, the semiconductor industry has been characterized by significant downturns and wide fluctuations in supply and demand. Also, the industry has experienced significant fluctuations in anticipation of changes in general economic conditions, including economic conditions in Asia and North America. The current global economic crisis has caused a slowdown in the demand for our products and other semiconductor products in general, and the slowdown may continue for an extended period of time. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has also led to significant variances in product demand and production capacity. We 19 Table of Contents have experienced, and may continue to experience, periodic fluctuations in our future financial results because of changes in industry-wide conditions. Environmental laws and regulations have caused us to incur, and may cause us to continue to incur, significant expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations, and may cause us to incur significant penalties for noncompliance. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could require us to incur substantial expenses which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have worked, and will continue to work, with our suppliers and customers to ensure that our products are compliant with enacted laws and regulations. Failure by us or our contract manufacturers to comply with such legislation could result in customers refusing to purchase our products and could subject us to significant monetary penalties in connection with a violation, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over time, imposing even greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of our inability to obtain permits, human error, equipment failure or other causes. 20 Table of Contents Other Risks The price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate substantially. Our stock price and the stock prices of technology companies similar to Pixelworks have been highly volatile. The price of our common stock may decline, and the value of your investment may be reduced regardless of our performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general economic and political conditions, including recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Additional factors that could negatively impact our stock price include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations, design wins, contracts, standards or acquisitions; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • inconsistent trading volume levels of our common stock; and • changes in market valuations of other technology companies. Any inability or perceived inability of investors to realize a gain on an investment in our common stock could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by potentially limiting our ability to retain our customers, to attract and retain qualified employees and to raise capital. We may be unable to maintain compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rules which could cause our common stock to be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. This could result in the lack of a market for our common stock, cause a decrease in the value of an investment in us, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On June 4, 2008, we effected a one-for-three reverse split of our common stock. We effected the reverse split to regain compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, particularly the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Global Market. Though the per share price of our common stock increased to over $2.00 per share immediately following the reverse split, the price has fluctuated significantly and was below $1.00 as recently as May 6, 2009. We cannot guarantee that it will remain at or above $1.00 per share and if the price again drops below $1.00 per share, the stock could become subject to delisting again, and we may seek shareholder approval for an additional reverse split. A second reverse split could produce negative effects. We could not guarantee that an additional reverse split would result in a long-term or permanent increase in the price of our common stock. The market might perceive a decision to effect an additional reverse split as a negative indicator of our future prospects, and as a result, the price of our common stock might decline after such a reverse split (perhaps by an even greater percentage than would have occurred in the absence of such a reverse split). An additional reverse split could also make it more difficult for us to meet certain other requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, including rules related to the minimum number of shares that must be in the public float, the minimum market value of the public float and the minimum number of round lot holders. Investors might consider the increased proportion of unissued authorized shares to issued shares to have an anti-takeover effect under certain circumstances by allowing for dilutive issuances which could prevent certain shareholders from changing the composition of the board, or could render tender offers for a combination with another entity more difficult to complete successfully. Additionally, customers, suppliers or employees might consider a company with low trading volume risky and might be less likely to transact business with us. If our common stock is delisted, trading of the stock will most likely take place on an over-the-counter market established for unlisted securities, such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. An investor is likely to find it less convenient to sell, or to obtain accurate quotations in seeking to buy, our common stock on an 21 Table of Contents over-the-counter market, and many investors may not buy or sell our common stock due to difficulty in accessing over-the-counter markets, or due to policies preventing them from trading in securities not listed on a national exchange or other reasons. In addition, as a delisted security, our common stock would be subject to SEC rules regarding “penny stock,” which impose additional disclosure requirements on broker-dealers. The regulations relating to penny stocks, coupled with the typically higher cost per trade to investors in penny stocks due to factors such as broker commissions generally representing a higher percentage of the price of a penny stock than of a higher priced stock, would further limit the ability and willingness of investors to trade in our common stock. For these reasons and others, delisting would adversely affect the liquidity, trading volume and price of our common stock, causing the value of an investment in us to decrease and having an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to attract and retain qualified executives and employees and to raise capital. The anti-takeover provisions of Oregon law and in our articles of incorporation could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock by preventing a sale or takeover of us at a price or prices favorable to the holders of our common stock. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Oregon law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of us, making a merger or acquisition of us less desirable to a potential acquirer or preventing a change in our management, even if our shareholders consider the merger, acquisition or change in management favorable or if doing so would benefit our shareholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The following are examples of such provisions in our articles of incorporation or bylaws: • our board of directors is authorized, without prior shareholder approval, to change the size of the board (our articles of incorporation provide that if the board is increased to eight or more members, the board will be divided into three classes serving staggered terms, which would make it more difficult for a group of shareholders to quickly change the composition of our board); • our board of directors is authorized, without prior shareholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us or to effect a change of control, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock; • members of our board of directors can be removed only for cause and at a meeting of shareholders called expressly for that purpose, by the vote of 75 percent of the votes then entitled to be cast for the election of directors; • our board of directors may alter our bylaws without obtaining shareholder approval; and shareholders are required to provide advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon at a shareholder meeting. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 