ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully review and consider the risks described below. If any of the risks described below should occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, cash flows, liquidity, results of operations, and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose some or all of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, also may become important factors that adversely impact us. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking information, the risk factors set forth below are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. Risks Related to Our Industry The business in which we engage is complex and heavily regulated, and changes in the regulatory environment affecting our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, and may be subject to judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions. See Item 1. “Business — Laws and Regulations” above for further information. These laws, regulations and judicial and administrative decisions include those pertaining to: real estate settlement procedures; fair lending; fair credit reporting; truth in lending; fair debt collection; compliance with net worth and financial statement delivery requirements; compliance with federal and state disclosure and licensing requirements; the establishment of maximum interest rates, finance charges, fees and other charges; secured transactions; collection, foreclosure, repossession and claims-handling procedures; unfair and deceptive acts and practices; escrow administration; lender-placed insurance; bankruptcy; loss mitigation and loan modifications; deficiency collections; other trade practices and privacy regulations providing for the use and safeguarding of non-public personal financial information of borrowers and guidance on non-traditional mortgage loans issued by the federal financial regulatory agencies. By agreement with some of our customers, we also are subject to additional requirements that our customers may impose. Federal or state regulation and oversight of our business activities may result in increased costs and potential penalties and litigation and could limit or prevent us from operating our business in some or all of the states in which we currently operate, reduce the revenues that we receive from our business and limit our ability to add to our MSR portfolio. 17 Table of Contents The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act may impact our business in ways that we cannot predict until rules and regulations related thereto are enacted. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law for the express purpose of further regulating the financial services industry, including mortgage origination, sales, servicing and securitization. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact the operation and practices of Fannie Mae and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac. We believe that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac hold potential for growth opportunities for our business but we are unable to determine what impact the applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may have on that potential. In addition, our ability to enter into asset-backed securities transactions in the future may be impacted by the Dodd-Frank Act and the other proposed reforms related thereto, the effect of which on the asset-backed securities market is currently uncertain. The CFPB is becoming more active in its monitoring of the mortgage origination and servicing sectors. New rules and regulations and/or more stringent enforcement of existing rules and regulations by the CFPB could result in enforcement actions, fines, penalties and the inherent reputational risk that results from such actions. The CFPB, a federal agency established pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, officially began operation on July 21, 2011. The CFPB is charged, in part, with enforcing laws involving consumer financial products and services, including mortgage finance and servicing and reverse mortgages, and is empowered with examination, enforcement and rulemaking authority. While the full scope of the CFPB’s rulemaking and regulatory agenda relating to the mortgage servicing industry is unclear, it is apparent that the CFPB has taken a very active role. For example, the CFPB has issued a Supervision and Examination Manual and other guidelines indicating that it will send examiners to banks and other institutions that service and/or originate mortgages to assess whether consumers’ interests are protected. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes new standards and practices for mortgage originators, another potential growth area for our business, including determining prospective borrower’s abilities to repay their mortgages, removing incentives for higher cost mortgages, prohibiting prepayment penalties for non-qualified mortgages, prohibiting mandatory arbitration clauses, requiring additional disclosures to potential borrowers and restricting the fees that mortgage originators may collect. Final regulations regarding such “ability to repay” and other standards and practices were adopted by the CFPB and took effect in January 2014. Before originating a mortgage loan, lenders must determine on the basis of certain information and according to specified criteria that the prospective borrower has the ability to repay the loan. Lenders that issue loans meeting certain heightened underwriting requirements will be presumed to comply with the new rule with respect to these loans. In addition, our ability to enter into asset-backed securities transactions in the future may be impacted by the Dodd-Frank Act and other proposed reforms related thereto, the effect of which on the asset-backed securities market is currently uncertain. The CFPB issued final rules on January 17, 2013 and amendments since such date amending Regulation X, which implements the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and Regulation Z, which implements the Truth in Lending Act. These final rules implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act regarding mortgage loan servicing including periodic billing statements, certain notices and acknowledgements, prompt crediting of borrowers’ accounts for payments received, additional notice, review and timing requirements with respect to delinquent borrowers, prompt investigation of complaints by borrowers and required additional steps to be taken before purchasing insurance to protect the lender’s interest in the property. The new servicing rules also require servicers to meet certain benchmarks for customer service. In addition, this final rule addresses servicers’ obligations to, among other things, establish reasonable policies and procedures and provide information about mortgage loss mitigation options to delinquent borrowers. The final rule pertaining to Regulation Z, among other things, amends current rules governing the scope, timing, content and format of disclosures to consumers regarding the interest rate adjustments of their variable-rate transactions and establishes certain requirements relating to billing statements, payment crediting and the provision of payoff statements. These rules took effect on January 10, 2014. On February 11, 2013, the CFPB issued guidance to mortgage servicers to address potential risks to customers that may arise in connection with transfers of servicing. The CFPB notes that there are a number of 18 Table of Contents laws applicable to such transfers, including, without limitation, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and prohibitions on unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices. According to the CFPB, if a servicer is determined to have engaged in any acts or practices that are unfair, deceptive, or abusive, or that otherwise violate federal consumer financial laws and regulations, the CFPB will take appropriate supervisory and enforcement actions to address violations and seek all appropriate corrective measures, including remediation of harm to consumers. In light of the significant amount of transfers that the Company has undertaken and seeks to undertake, we may receive additional scrutiny from the CFPB and such scrutiny may result in some or all of the types of actions described above being imposed upon our business. In response to a Civil Investigative Demand, or CID, from the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, issued in November 2010, and a CID from the CFPB, in September 2012, Green Tree has produced documents and other information concerning a wide range of its operations. On October 7, 2013, the CFPB notified Green Tree, that the CFPB’s staff was considering recommending that the CFPB take action against Green Tree for alleged violations of various federal consumer financial laws. On February 20, 2014, the FTC and CFPB staff advised Green Tree that it has sought authority to bring an enforcement action and negotiate a resolution related to alleged violations of various federal consumer financial laws. The Company anticipates meeting with the staff to understand the staff’s concerns and to see if the matter can be resolved. At this time, the Company does not have sufficient information to evaluate the merits of the potential enforcement action or to make an assessment of the cost or likelihood of any such resolution. Regulations promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act or by the CFPB and actions by the CFPB could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our businesses, result in heightened federal regulation and oversight of our business activities, and in increased costs and potential litigation associated with our business activities. Our failure to comply with the laws, rules or regulations to which we are subject, whether actual or alleged, would expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are highly dependent on U.S. government-sponsored entities, and any changes in these entities or their current roles could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial position and results of operations. The U.S. residential mortgage industry in general and our business in particular is highly dependent on government sponsored entities, or GSEs, particularly Fannie Mae. We receive compensation for servicing loans on behalf of the GSEs and Ginnie Mae. In addition, on a regular basis, we sell residential mortgage loans to GSEs, which include mortgage loans in GSE guaranteed securitizations. In connection with the acquisition of RMS, we are an approved issuer of HMBS, which are guaranteed by Ginnie Mae and collateralized by participation interests in HECMs, insured by the Federal Housing Administration, or FHA. We derive material benefits from our relationships with GSEs and Ginnie Mae, as our ability to originate and sell mortgage loans under their programs reduces our credit exposure and mortgage inventory financing costs. There is significant uncertainty regarding the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac including with respect to how long they will continue to be in existence, the extent of their roles in the market and what forms they will have. There are several pending bills and proposals to revamp both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced or eliminated and the nature of the guarantees could be considerably limited relative to historical measurements. The elimination of the traditional roles of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or the FHA could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operation of these GSEs or any significant adverse change in the level of activity of these GSEs in the primary or secondary mortgage markets or in the underwriting criteria of these GSEs could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial position and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents In addition, some of our contracts contain periodic performance payments that are determined by formulas and/or are tied to the performance of our competitors. Inasmuch as we have little or no insight into the performance of our competitors in order that we might predict the ultimate payout of these incentives, it is difficult, if not impossible in some instances to predict with any certainty what the payout (if any) of the incentive payments will be. Changes in existing U.S. government-sponsored mortgage programs or servicing eligibility standards could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In September 2011, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, in a joint initiative at the direction of the FHFA, set forth potential alternatives for future mortgage servicing structures and compensation. Under their proposal, the GSEs are considering potential structures in which the minimum service fee would be reduced or eliminated altogether. This would provide mortgage bankers with the ability to either sell all or a portion of the retained servicing fee for cash up front, or retain an excess servicing fee. While the proposal provides additional flexibility in managing liquidity and capital requirements, it is unclear how the various options might impact mortgage-backed security pricing and the related pricing of excess servicing fees. The GSEs are also considering different pricing options for non-performing loans, such as tying servicing fees to the number of loans being serviced rather than the size of the mortgages, to better align servicer incentives with mortgage-backed securities investors and provide the loan guarantor the ability to transfer non-performing servicing. The Federal Housing Finance Agency has indicated that any change in the servicing compensation structure would be prospective and the changes, if implemented, could have a significant impact on the entire mortgage industry and on the results of operations and cash flows of our mortgage business. The enforcement of consent orders by certain federal banking agencies against the largest servicers related to foreclosure practices could impose additional compliance costs on our servicing business. On April 13, 2011, the federal banking agencies overseeing certain aspects of the mortgage market entered into consent orders with 14 of the largest mortgage servicers in the United States regarding foreclosure practices. The enforcement actions require the servicers, among other things, to: (i) correct deficiencies in residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure practices; (ii) make significant modifications in practices for residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure processing, including communications with borrowers and limitations on dual-tracking, which occurs when servicers continue to pursue foreclosure during the loan modification process; (iii) ensure that foreclosures are not pursued once a mortgage has been approved for modification and to establish a single point of contact for borrowers throughout the loan modification and foreclosure processes; and (iv) establish robust oversight and controls pertaining to their third-party vendors, including outside legal counsel, that provide default management or foreclosure services. While these enforcement consent orders are considered as not preemptive to state actions, it remains to be seen how state actions and proceedings will be affected by the consent orders. On February 28, 2013, the consent orders for 13 of the 14 servicers were amended to memorialize an agreement that had been reached in January 2013 with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or Federal Reserve Board, to pay more than $9.3 billion in payments and other assistance to borrowers. The amount includes $3.6 billion in cash payments and $5.7 billion in other assistance to borrowers such as loan modifications and forgiveness of deficiency judgments. Borrowers covered by the amendment include 4.2 million people whose homes were in any stage of the foreclosure process in 2009 or 2010 and whose mortgages were serviced by one of the servicers subject to the amended consent orders. Eligible borrowers are expected to receive compensation ranging from hundreds of dollars up to $125,000, depending on the type of possible servicer error. These borrowers are not required to take any additional steps to receive the payments, nor are they required to execute a waiver of any legal claims they may have against their servicer as a condition for receiving payment. In providing the $5.7 billion in assistance, the 13 servicers are expected to undertake well-structured loss mitigation efforts focused on foreclosure prevention, with preference given to activities designed to keep borrowers in their homes. Although we are neither a direct party to these consent orders nor a banking organization, we have become subject to certain aspects of the consent orders to the extent (i) we sub-service loans for the servicers that are 20 Table of Contents parties to the consent orders; (ii) our investors require that we comply with certain aspects of the consent orders; or (iii) we otherwise find it prudent to comply with certain aspects of the consent orders. In addition, the practices set forth in such enforcement consent orders may be adopted by the industry as a whole, requiring us to comply with them in order to follow standard industry practices as required by our servicing agreements. The settlement also adds new requirements for loss mitigation programs, including restrictions on the imposition of force-placed lender insurance. In addition, in connection with certain of our recent acquisitions, we agreed to certain monitoring of our servicing of these assets which is required under the consent orders. Changes to our servicing practices could increase compliance costs for our servicing business, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Federal Government/State Attorneys General foreclosure settlement could have unforeseen effects on our business. On February 9, 2012, the U.S. Department of Justice, certain federal regulatory agencies, and 49 state attorneys general (Oklahoma is excluded) entered into a $25 billion settlement with the five largest mortgage servicers — Bank of America Corporation, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo Company, Citigroup, Inc. and Ally Financial, Inc. The settlement, which was approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia by consent judgments entered on April 5, 2012, provides for, among other things, payments to certain individuals whose homes have been foreclosed upon, the reduction of principal for certain other mortgagors, and the establishment of a broad array of new requirements and restrictions related to the servicing of residential mortgage loans, or the Servicing Standards. While we are not a party to the settlement, the acquisition of the MSRs from ResCap and certain of our clients each require us to implement some or most of the Servicing Standards when we service loans for them, and we expect current and future clients may require us to do so as well. Should this occur, our cost to service mortgage loans could be increased and our servicing income could be reduced. However, at this time we do not believe such costs will be material. One of our strategies is to increase our originations and servicing of GSE mortgages (including through acquisitions or third party relationships), which could expose us to additional risks. One of our strategies is to increase originations of mortgages, as well as servicing of mortgages, that are GSE-backed mortgages. There are a number of risks that we could be exposed to as we effectuate this strategy: • In February 2012, the Federal Housing Finance Agency issued a report to Congress outlining various options for long-term reform of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These options involve gradually reducing the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the mortgage market and ultimately winding down both institutions such that the private sector provides the majority of mortgage credit. We believe these options are likely to result in higher mortgage rates in the future, which could have a negative impact on the mortgage originations business and on mortgage servicing. • There are federal and state legislative and agency initiatives that could, once fully implemented, adversely affect this business. For instance, the risk retention requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act requires securitizers to generally retain a minimum beneficial interest in mortgage-backed securities they sell through a securitization. Once implemented, the risk retention requirement may result in higher costs of certain originations operations and impose additional compliance requirements to meet servicing and originations criteria for qualified residential mortgages. Lastly, certain proposed federal legislation would permit borrowers in bankruptcy to restructure mortgage loans secured by primary residences. Bankruptcy courts could, if this legislation is enacted, reduce the principal balance of a mortgage loan that is secured by a lien on mortgaged property, reduce the mortgage interest rate, extend the term to maturity or otherwise modify the terms of a bankrupt borrower’s mortgage loan. Any of the foregoing could also reduce the profitability of residential loans currently serviced by us or adversely affect our ability to sell mortgage loans originated by us or increase delinquency rates and, as a result, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the cost of servicing an increasingly delinquent residential loan portfolio may rise without a corresponding increase in servicing compensation. 21 Table of Contents • Delinquency rates can have a significant impact on our revenues, expenses and the value of our MSRs. For example, an increase in delinquencies may result in lower revenues because, for some GSE business, we may only collect servicing fees for performing loans. Additionally, while increased delinquencies may generate higher ancillary fees, including late fees, these fees are not likely to be recoverable in the event that the related loan is liquidated. In addition, an increase in delinquencies lowers the interest income we receive on cash held in collection and other accounts. Delinquencies can also increase our liability for servicing advances, as we may be required to advance certain payments early in a delinquency, and impact our liquidity. An increase in delinquencies will result in a higher cost to service due to the increased time and effort required to collect payments from delinquent borrowers. If we acquire portfolios of MSRs, the price we pay will depend on, among other things, our projections of the cash flows from the related pool of mortgage loans. Our expectation of delinquencies is a significant assumption underlying those cash flow projections. If delinquencies were significantly greater than expected, the estimated fair value of MSRs we acquire could be diminished. If the estimated fair value of MSRs is reduced, we could suffer a loss, which has a negative impact on our financial results and the benefits we would get from acquisitions. • Loans that are GSE backed tend to be issued to higher quality borrowers with lower loan-to-value ratios. Accordingly, these borrowers can usually prepay such loans with ease through refinancings when mortgage rates decrease. Such prepayments will reduce the size of our MSR portfolio and our future servicing revenue. We make assumptions about prepayment rates, but such assumptions could be incorrect, or could be rendered incorrect through changes in interest rates. We may seek to hedge such risk but may be unsuccessful. • In connection with loans that we originate, we expect to generally sell or securitize such loans to finance our future operations. In connection with the sale of mortgage loans, originators must make various representations and warranties concerning such loans that, if breached, require the originator to repurchase such loans or indemnify the purchaser of such loans for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans. These representations and warranties vary based on the nature of the transaction and the purchaser’s or insurer’s requirements but generally pertain to the ownership of the mortgage loan, the real property securing the loan and compliance with applicable laws and applicable lender and GSEs underwriting guidelines in connection with the origination of the loan. The aggregate UPB of loans sold or serviced by us (and the UPB of certain portfolios that we may buy in future acquisitions) represents the maximum potential exposure related to loan repurchase and indemnification claims, including claims for breach of representation and warranty provisions. Due, in part, to elevated mortgage payment delinquency rates and declining housing prices, originators have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, an increase in loan repurchase and indemnification claims due to actual or alleged breaches of representations and warranties in connection with the sale or servicing of mortgage loans. The estimation of our loan repurchase and indemnification liability is subjective and based upon our projections of the future incidence of loan repurchase and indemnification claims, as well as loss severities. Given these trends, losses incurred in connection with such actual or projected loan repurchase and indemnification claims may be in excess of our estimates (including our estimate of liabilities we will assume in an acquisition and factor into our purchase price), and we may be required to increase such reserves and may sustain additional losses associated with such loan repurchase and indemnification claims in the future. Accordingly, increases to our reserves and losses incurred by us in connection with actual loan repurchases and indemnification payments in excess of our reserves could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • As we increase our servicing of mortgages, particularly GSE-backed mortgages, we may incur liability that is the result of errors or violations of law attributable to prior servicers of such mortgages. Although we seek to minimize our exposure to such liabilities through liability bifurcation agreements pursuant to which such liabilities are not assumed by us, or by obtaining indemnification from former owners of MSRs, there is no assurance that such indemnification, even if obtainable, enforceable and collectible, will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities arising from a particular acquisition. Furthermore, there is no assurance that any such indemnification will cover losses resulting from claims that may be asserted against us by a GSE with respect to errors or violations that occurred prior to a particular acquisition by us. 22 Table of Contents • In connection with the sale of GSE mortgage loans, originators must make various representations and warranties concerning such mortgage loans that, if breached, may require the originator to repurchase such mortgage loans or indemnify the GSE for losses incurred in respect of such mortgage loans. In connection with the sale of GSE related servicing rights, the GSEs may require the purchaser of mortgage servicing rights to assume the loan originator’s repurchase and indemnification obligations. As a result, in order to purchase GSE related mortgage servicing rights, we may be required to assume certain liabilities relating to the origination and prior servicing of the underlying mortgage loans. If we are required to assume such liabilities, we will need to rely on our indemnification rights against the seller of the mortgage servicing rights should the GSEs seek to enforce repurchase and indemnification claims against us. Our ability to mitigate exposure to claims brought by the GSEs depends on, among other factors, the credit worthiness of the mortgage servicing rights seller, as well as other limitations or conditions affecting our ability to seek indemnification against the seller. For example, our ability to seek indemnification from a seller may be subject to a deductible, or the seller’s indemnification obligations may terminate after a specified period of time. Lender-placed insurance is under increased scrutiny by regulators and as a result of recent regulatory changes, we expect reduced income from commissions for the Green Tree insurance business. Under certain circumstances, when borrowers fail to provide hazard insurance on their residences, the owner or servicer of the loan may place such insurance to protect the collateral and passes on the premium to the borrower. Walter Investment’s historical practice had been to place the coverage with a third-party carrier, which, in turn, reinsured some of the exposure with Walter Investment Reinsurance Co., Ltd., our wholly-owned subsidiary. This practice ended effective December 31, 2011, and Green Tree’s insurance agency has acted as an agent for this purpose, placing the insurance coverage with a third-party carrier for which the agency earns a commission. Both practices have come under the scrutiny of regulators. On December 18, 2013, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac announced that effective June 1, 2014, mortgage servicers and their affiliates may not receive commissions or other forms of compensation with lender-placed insurance on GSE loans or ceding premiums to a reinsurer affiliated with the servicers. These changes will restrict Green Tree’s insurance agency from receiving future sales commissions when placing insurance on GSE loans serviced by Green Tree on and after June 1, 2014. As a result, Green Tree’s insurance agency’s receipts of such sales commissions will be significantly reduced. State regulators have also taken action to restrict insurance practices. In New York, for example, the NY DFS on September 19, 2013, released proposed regulations that, among other things, would prohibit insurers from: issuing force-placed insurance on mortgaged property serviced by a servicer affiliated with the insurer; paying commissions to a bank or servicer or other parties affiliated with a bank or servicer on force-placed insurance policies obtained by the servicer; paying contingent commissions based on underwriting profitability or loss ratios; making payments, including but not limited to the payment of expenses, to a servicer or other parties affiliated with a servicer in connection with securing force-placed insurance business; and providing free or below-cost, outsourced services to banks, servicers or their affiliates. In addition, the proposed regulations would impose additional notification requirements, prohibit force-placed insurers from issuing forced-placed insurance in excess of the borrower’s last known hazard insurance limits (or if such borrower’s last known hazard insurance limits did not comply with mortgage loan requirements, the replacement cost of improvements on the mortgaged property), require such insurers to refund all force-placed insurance premiums for any period when there is overlapping voluntary insurance coverage, and require such insurers to regularly inform the NY DFS of loss ratios actually experienced. The NY DFS’s proposed regulations follow a number of settlements between the NY DFS and force-placed insurers, including a consent order entered into on March 21, 2013, between Assurant, Inc., a third-party insurance carrier for which Green Tree’s insurance agency acts as an agent, and the NY DFS, concerning lender-placed policies issued by Assurant in New York. Among other things, Assurant agreed not to pay compensation to servicers and their affiliates on forced-placed insurance policies obtained by the servicer. 23 Table of Contents On October 7, 2013, the ASIC, the insurer that provides lender-placed hazard insurance coverage on Florida mortgage loans serviced by us, entered into a Consent Order with the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation. ASIC agreed in the Consent Order that it will not pay commissions to any mortgage loan servicer, or any person or entity affiliated with a servicer, on lender-placed insurance policies obtained by the servicer. This prohibition is expected to have a negative effect on the future cash flows of our Insurance segment beginning on its anticipated effective date of October 7, 2014. We may be subject to liability for potential violations of predatory lending and/or servicing laws, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. Various federal, state and local laws have been enacted that are designed to discourage predatory lending and servicing practices. The Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994, or HOEPA, prohibits inclusion of certain provisions in residential loans that have mortgage rates or origination costs in excess of prescribed levels and requires that borrowers be given certain disclosures prior to origination. Some states have enacted, or may enact, similar laws or regulations, which in some cases impose restrictions and requirements greater than those in HOEPA. In addition, under the anti-predatory lending laws of some states, the origination of certain residential loans, including loans that are not classified as “high cost” loans under applicable law, must satisfy a net tangible benefits test with respect to the related borrower. This test may be highly subjective and open to interpretation. As a result, a court may determine that a residential loan, for example, does not meet the test even if the related originator reasonably believed that the test was satisfied. Failure of residential loan originators or servicers to comply with these laws, to the extent any of their residential loans are or become part of our mortgaged-related assets, could subject us, as a servicer or as an assignee or purchaser, in the case of acquired loans, to monetary penalties and could result in the borrowers rescinding the affected residential loans. Lawsuits have been brought in various states making claims against originators, servicers, assignees and purchasers of high cost loans for violations of state law. Named defendants in these cases have included numerous participants within the secondary mortgage market. If our loans are found to have been originated in violation of predatory or abusive lending laws, we could incur losses, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. The expanding body of federal, state and local regulations and/or the licensing of loan servicing, collections or other aspects of our business, may increase the cost of compliance and the risks of noncompliance, and may be difficult for us to satisfy in a timely manner. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and is subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on a substantial portion of our operations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years. Some individual municipalities have begun to enact laws that restrict loan servicing activities, including delaying or preventing foreclosures or forcing the modification of certain mortgages. Further, federal legislation recently has been proposed which, among other things, also could hinder the ability of a servicer to foreclose promptly on defaulted residential loans or would permit limited assignee liability for certain violations in the residential loan origination process, and which could result in our being held responsible for violations in the residential loan origination process. Furthermore, if regulators impose new or more restrictive requirements, we may have difficulty satisfying these requirements in a timely manner and/or incur additional significant costs to comply with such requirements, which could further adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could possibly lead to civil and criminal liability; loss of licensure; termination of our servicing and sub-servicing agreements; damage to our reputation in the industry; fines, penalties and litigation, including class action lawsuits; or administrative enforcement actions. Any of these outcomes could harm our results of operations or financial condition. We are unable to predict whether federal, state or local authorities will enact laws, rules or regulations that will require changes in our practices in the future and whether any such changes could adversely affect our cost of doing business and profitability. 24 Table of Contents The expiration of, or changes to, government mortgage modification programs could adversely affect future revenues. Under HAMP, HARP and similar government programs, a participating servicer may be entitled to receive financial incentives in connection with any modification plans it enters into with eligible borrowers and subsequent success fees to the extent that a borrower remains current in any agreed upon loan modification. While we participate in and dedicate numerous resources to HAMP and HARP, we may not continue to participate in or realize future revenues from HAMP, HARP or any other government mortgage modification program. Changes in legislation or regulation regarding such programs that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans and changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing mortgage loans may impact the extent to which we participate in and receive financial benefits from such programs, or may increase the expense of our participation in such programs. Changes to the terms or requirements of government loan modification programs, as well as the currently scheduled termination of HAMP and HARP on December 31, 2015, could also result in an increase to our costs. We expect refinancing volumes and margins to moderate in 2014 as peak HARP refinancings will likely already have occurred in 2013. Difficult conditions in the mortgage and real estate markets, financial markets and the economy generally may cause us to incur losses on our portfolio or otherwise to be unsuccessful in our business strategies. A prolonged economic slowdown, recession, period of declining real estate values or sustained high unemployment could materially and adversely affect us. The implementation of our business strategies may be materially affected by conditions in the mortgage and housing markets, the financial markets, and the economy generally. The risks associated with our servicing business and any investments we may make will be more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession, especially if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values or sustained unemployment. A weakening economy, high unemployment and declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that borrowers will default on their debt service obligations. In this event we may incur losses on our investment portfolio because the value of any collateral we foreclose upon may be insufficient to cover the full amount of our investment or may take a significant amount of time to realize. In addition, the aforementioned circumstances may adversely affect our Servicing segment, including our receipt of servicing incentive fee compensation and the timing, amount and reimbursement of servicing advances made by us. A continued deterioration or a delay in any recovery in the residential mortgage market may also reduce the number of new mortgages that we originate, reduce the profitability of residential loans currently serviced by us or adversely affect our ability to sell mortgage loans originated by us or increase delinquency rates. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the cost of servicing an increasingly delinquent residential loan portfolio may rise without a corresponding increase in servicing compensation. Material changes to the laws, regulations, rules or practices applicable to reverse mortgage programs operated by FHA, HUD, Fannie Mae or Ginnie Mae could adversely affect our reverse mortgage segment. The reverse mortgage industry is largely dependent upon GSEs as well as the FHA, HUD and government entities like Ginnie Mae. There can be no guarantee that any or all of the GSEs will continue to participate in the reverse mortgage industry or that they will not make material changes to the laws, regulations, rules or practices applicable to reverse mortgage programs. The FHA, for example, on January 30, 2013, consolidated its standard fixed rate reverse mortgage program with its fixed-rate saver program, which may limit the amounts borrowers can draw. On September 3, 2013, the FHA announced changes to the HECM program, pursuant to authority under the Reverse Mortgage Stabilization Act, signed into law on August 9, 2013. The changes impact initial mortgage insurance premiums and principal limit factors, impose restrictions on the amount of funds that senior borrowers may draw down at closing and during the first 12 months after closing, and will require a financial assessment for all HECM borrowers to ensure that they have the capacity and willingness to meet their financial obligations and the terms of the reverse mortgage. In addition, the new changes will require borrowers to set aside a portion of the loan proceeds they receive at closing (or withhold a portion of monthly loan disbursements) for the payment of property taxes and homeowners insurance based on the results of the financial assessment. 25 Table of Contents With the exception of new financial assessment requirements and funding requirements for the payment of property charges (for which HUD, on December 20, 2013, announced a delay of effectiveness), the new HECM requirements became effective on September 30, 2013. These changes have adversely affected the volumes and margins of new reverse mortgage originations, and we expect to continue to experience such effects in 2014. GSEs’ participation in the reverse mortgage industry also may be subject to economic and political changes that cannot be predicted. Any of the aforementioned circumstances could materially and adversely affect the performance of our Reverse Mortgage segment and the value of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business Our growth may subject us to greater scrutiny by state and federal regulators. The mortgage servicing industry has been under increased scrutiny from state and federal regulators and other authorities. This scrutiny is likely to target larger and fast-growing servicing organizations, such as Walter. We cannot guarantee that any such scrutiny and investigations will not reveal violations of law or regulation that may adversely affect our business. While increasing our servicing portfolio is a key part of our strategy, this strategy carries certain risks and we may not be able to achieve our goals. A key component of our strategy is to increase our servicing business. We have grown this business rapidly over the past several years, due to additions of sub-servicing contracts, acquisitions of servicing portfolios and our acquisition of Green Tree, and we intend to continue to grow our portfolio through similar actions. This strategy creates a number of risks for us: • Other mortgage servicers have suffered operational deficiencies and, in rare instances company failures, due to the operational risks associated with servicing mortgages and / or a rapid expansion. Deficiencies in other servicers have included deterioration in operating margins due to increased costs, deterioration in servicing metrics (e.g., delinquency rates, call center metrics, account reconciliations or investor reporting), which, if they were to occur, could adversely affect our results of operations, and could also lead to potential violations of governmental regulations followed by enforcement penalties and fines. • Our existing servicing portfolio will decline over time, as mortgages are repaid, prepaid or discharged. While we will seek to replenish our servicing portfolio through the addition of sub-servicing contracts, MSR purchases, originations or acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing this business. There is significant competition existing in the sector and the supply of servicing portfolios may decline over the next few years as the opportunity created by the financial crisis ebbs. The competition for new portfolios could increase the prices we may need to pay for such portfolios or reduce sub-servicing margins. If we are unable to grow our portfolios, our future growth and operating results will be adversely affected, which will adversely affect our stock price. • Our ability to sustain and grow our servicing business depends on our ability to acquire servicing portfolios from third parties. In February 2014, a competitor of ours agreed to indefinitely halt an announced acquisition of MSRs at the request of the NY DFS, which reportedly expressed concern about the competitor’s ability to adequately service acquired MSRs. We may be subject to a similar request by the NY DFS or other state or federal authorities in the event of a material acquisition of MSRs, particularly if we face enforcement actions from the NY DFS, CFPB, or other state or federal authorities. If we were subject to similar requests, we would have difficulty growing our business through MSR acquisitions. We are awaiting GSE approvals for our acquisition of servicing rights from EverBank and for another acquisition of servicing rights from an affiliate of a commercial bank. We cannot be certain whether or when such approval will be received or what conditions might attach to such approval. Failure to obtain both approvals could have a material adverse affect on our financial performance. We might not be able to maintain or grow our business if we cannot identify and acquire MSRs or enter into additional sub-servicing agreements on favorable terms. Our servicing portfolio is subject to “run-off,” meaning that mortgage loans serviced by us may be repaid at maturity, prepaid prior to maturity, refinanced with a mortgage not serviced by us or liquidated through foreclosure, 26 Table of Contents deed-in-lieu of foreclosure or other liquidation process or repaid through standard amortization of principal. As a result, our ability to maintain the size of our servicing portfolio depends on our ability to acquire the rights to service additional residential loans. We believe there are significant business opportunities in our business development “pipeline” of potential transactions. However, we may not be able to acquire servicing rights or enter into additional sub-servicing agreements on terms favorable to us nor do we control the decision to transfer servicing to us. In determining the purchase price for both servicing rights and sub-servicing, management makes certain assumptions, many of which are beyond our control, including, among other things: • origination vintage and geography; • loan to value ratio; • stratification of FICO scores; • the rates of prepayment and repayment within the underlying pools of mortgage loans; • projected rates of delinquencies, defaults and liquidations; • future interest rates; • our cost to service the loans; • incentive and ancillary fee income; and • amounts of future servicing advances. As a result, we may not be successful in completing acquisitions or may overpay or not realize anticipated benefits of acquisitions in our business development pipeline. The owners of certain loans we service or sub-service, may, under certain circumstances, terminate our MSRs or sub-servicing contracts, respectively. As is standard in our industry, under the terms of our master servicing agreements with GSEs and other customers, our customers have the right to terminate us as the servicer of the loans we service on their behalf if we default pursuant to the terms and conditions of the servicing agreement; and in some agreements the servicing can be transferred without cause (although in this case the servicer typically receives the fair value of the servicing rights). Under our sub-servicing contracts, the primary servicers for whom we conduct sub-servicing activities have the right to terminate our sub-servicing rights with or without cause, with generally 60 to 90 days’ notice. In some instances, the sub-servicing contracts require payment of a deboarding fee upon transfer while in other instances there is little to no compensation. We expect to continue to acquire sub-servicing rights under terms and conditions which could exacerbate these risks. If we were to have our servicing or sub-servicing rights terminated on a material portion of our servicing portfolio, this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We use estimates in determining the fair value of certain assets. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, we may be required to write down the value of these assets which could adversely affect our earnings. We estimate the fair value for certain assets and liabilities by calculating the present value of expected future cash flows utilizing assumptions that we believe are used by market participants. The methodology used to estimate these values is complex and uses asset-specific collateral data and market inputs for interest and discount rates and liquidity dates. Valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships that drive the results of our valuation methodologies. If prepayment speeds increase more than estimated, delinquency and default levels are higher than anticipated or financial market illiquidity continues beyond our estimate, we may be required to write down the value of certain assets which could adversely affect our earnings. 27 Table of Contents Accounting rules for certain of our transactions continue to evolve, are highly complex, and involve significant judgments and assumptions. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our financial statements. Accounting rules for our business, such as the rules for determining the fair value measurement and disclosure of financial instruments, are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. These complexities could lead to a delay in the preparation of financial information and the delivery of this information to our stockholders. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions related to fair value could impact our financial statements and our ability to timely prepare our financial statements. If we do not maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we could fail to accurately report our financial results, which may materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley” or “SOX”) requires us to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent auditors issue their own opinion on our internal controls over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. A material weakness is defined by the standards issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal controls over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As previously reported, during management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, management determined that there was a material weakness in our controls related to the accounting for significant and unusual transactions as a result of the significant increase in acquisitions and a related increase in the volume of complex accounting and transactional activity we experienced during late 2012 and early 2013. As a result of this material weakness, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2012, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective. As of December 31, 2013, management concluded that the 2012 material weakness had been remediated. It is possible that other material weaknesses and/or control deficiencies could be identified by our management or by our independent auditing firm in the future, or may occur without being identified. The existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency could require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate such weakness or deficiency and management may not be able to remediate the same in a timely manner. Any such weakness or deficiency, even if remediated quickly, could result in regulatory scrutiny, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial condition, lead to a default under our indebtedness, materially affect the market price and trading liquidity of our debt instruments, reduce the market value of our common stock and otherwise materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Certain aspects of our business are subject to factors that are beyond our control and/or not predictable with any degree of certainty. This unpredictability may adversely affect our projections, business plans, cash flows and business strategies in material ways. We believe that there is a secular shift in mortgage servicing that is underway pursuant to which mortgage servicing currently performed by the largest banks is or will be shifted to specialized servicers like the Company. Such a shift for existing servicing business, however, is largely dependent upon the willingness and ability of the parties to transfer servicing rights and in some cases on consents for such transfers from GSEs and government authorities. We cannot be certain that this shift will continue, nor do we have any control over the scope and/or timing of the parties’ efforts to transfer servicing. As a result, while we might receive assurances from our customers that new business may be coming to us, unless and until our customers secure the corresponding servicing rights and transfer the business, we cannot be certain that the new business will be consummated or that the volumes will correspond to previous assurances. Our ability to sustain and grow our servicing business depends on our ability to acquire servicing portfolios from third parties. In February 2014, a competitor of ours agreed to indefinitely halt an announced acquisition of MSRs at the request of the NY DFS, which reportedly expressed concern about the competitor’s ability to 28 Table of Contents adequately service acquired MSRs. We may be subject to a similar request by the NY DFS or other state or federal authorities in the event of a material acquisition of MSRs, particularly if we face enforcement actions from the NY DFS, CFPB, or other state or federal authorities. If we were subject to similar requests, we would have difficulty growing our business through MSR acquisitions. We service reverse mortgages, which subjects us to additional risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the RMS and S1L acquisitions, we originate, securitize and service reverse mortgages. The reverse mortgage business is subject to substantial risks, including market, credit, interest rate, liquidity, operational, reputational and legal risks. A reverse mortgage is a loan available to seniors aged 62 or older that allows homeowners to borrow money against the value of their home. No repayment of the mortgage is required until the last borrower leaves the home. We depend on our ability to securitize reverse mortgages, subsequent draws, mortgage insurance premiums and servicing fees, and would be adversely affected if our ability to access the securitization market were to be limited. Defaults on reverse mortgages leading to foreclosures may occur if borrowers fail to meet maintenance obligations, such as payment of taxes or home insurance premiums. An increase in foreclosure rates may increase our cost of servicing. As a reverse mortgage servicer, we will also be responsible for funding any payments due to borrowers in a timely manner, remitting to investors interest accrued, paying for interest shortfalls, and funding advances such as taxes and home insurance premiums. Advances are typically recovered upon weekly or monthly reimbursement or from sale in the market. In the event we receive requests for advances in excess of amounts we are able to fund, we may not be able to fund these advance requests, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity. Finally, as a result of the RMS and S1L acquisitions, we may become subject to negative publicity in the event that loan defaults on reverse mortgages lead to foreclosures or even evictions of senior homeowners. All of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. We have substantial levels of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $4.4 billion of total indebtedness outstanding, the majority of which was secured. On December 17, 2013, we issued $575.0 million aggregate principal amount of our Senior Notes. On December 19, 2013, we borrowed $1.5 billion under the 2013 Term Loan and entered into a five-year secured revolving credit facility in an amount of $125.0 million under our 2013 Revolver. We used a majority of the proceeds from the 2013 Term Loan, together with the proceeds from the Senior Notes, to repay all amounts outstanding under our then existing 2012 Term Loan. Our obligations under the 2013 Secured Credit Facilities are guaranteed by substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and are secured by substantially all of our and the guarantors’ assets, subject to certain exceptions. As of December 31, 2013, we also had outstanding $290 million aggregate principal amount under our 4.50% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2019, or Convertible Notes. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, we and our subsidiaries had $971.3 million of secured indebtedness outstanding under a Servicer Advance Reimbursement Agreement and a Receivables Loan Agreement and $1.1 billion outstanding under master repurchase agreements. All of these amounts of indebtedness exclude (i) intercompany indebtedness, (ii) guarantees under our 2013 Secured Credit Facilities and (iii) mortgage-backed and asset-backed notes and variable funding loan facilities, all of which are non-recourse to us and our subsidiaries. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; 29 Table of Contents • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our unhedged obligations are at a variable rate of interest; • limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make nonstrategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with lower debt levels. We and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, including our 2013 Secured Credit Facilities and the Senior Notes Indenture. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to meet all of our obligations or service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. If we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations, which may not be successful. Our ability to make required payments on our debt and other obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control, including the risk factors as set forth herein. We cannot assure you we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness or to meet our other obligations such as our mandatory clean-up call obligations related to our Non-Residual Trusts. In addition, we conduct some of our operations through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is also dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. We may find it prudent or necessary to refinance our existing indebtedness. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is directly affected by global economic and financial conditions. In addition, optional prepayment of certain of our existing indebtedness is subject to the payment of prepayment premiums. In addition, our ability to incur secured indebtedness (which would generally enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash flows and results of operations, and on economic and market conditions and other factors. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Despite our current debt levels, we may still incur substantially more debt or take other actions which would intensify the risks discussed above. Despite our current consolidated debt levels, we and our subsidiaries are able to and may incur substantial additional debt in the future (including in connection with additional acquisitions or pipeline transactions), some of which may be secured, subject to the restrictions contained in our debt instruments. In addition, our 2013 30 Table of Contents Revolver provides for $125 million of borrowings, subject to customary borrowing conditions. Although the 2013 Secured Credit Facilities and the Senior Notes Indenture contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Any such indebtedness could increase our leverage and the risks we face from indebtedness described above. We may also be permitted to take a number of other actions that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on our indebtedness when due. Our debt agreements contain covenants that restrict our operations and may inhibit flexibility in operating our business and increasing revenues. Our 2013 Secured Credit Facilities and the Senior Notes Indenture contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell or transfer assets; • create liens; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default and our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and to terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the secured lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay amounts due under our 2013 Secured Credit Facilities and our other indebtedness. We may also use warehouse facilities, structured financing arrangements, securitizations and other forms of term debt, in addition to transaction or asset-specific financing arrangements, to finance investment purchases. Such financing facilities may contain restrictions, covenants, and representations and warranties that, among other conditions, require us to satisfy specified financial and asset quality tests and may restrict our ability to, among other actions, incur or guarantee additional debt, make certain investments or acquisitions, make distributions on or repurchase or redeem capital stock, engage in mergers or consolidations, grant liens or such other conditions as the lenders may require. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants or representations and warranties, we would be in default under these agreements and our lenders could elect to declare any and all amounts outstanding under the agreements immediately due and payable, enforce their respective interests against collateral pledged under such agreements, and restrict our ability to make additional borrowings. These financing agreements also may contain cross-default provisions, such that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements also could declare a default. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. The Company has from time to time used various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks. In the future we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. No hedging strategy can protect us completely. The derivative financial instruments that we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risks. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies, improperly executed and documented transactions or inaccurate assumptions could actually increase our risks and losses. In addition, hedging strategies 31 Table of Contents involve transaction and other costs. Our hedging strategies and the derivatives that we use may not be able to adequately offset the risks of interest rate volatility and our hedging transactions may result in or magnify losses. Furthermore, interest rate derivatives may not be available at all, or at favorable terms, particularly during economic downturns. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks related to hedging include: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; and • a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. Our investment management business may be subject to liability arising out of the performance of its duties providing investment management and other related services to an investment fund, and our reputation, business and operations could be adversely affected by regulatory compliance failures related to investment adviser activities. One of Green Tree’s subsidiaries, Green Tree Investment Management LLC, or GTIM, jointly manages an investment fund focused on distressed mortgage-related assets. Under the relevant sub-advisory agreement for the fund, GTIM is exempted from liability for any claim, loss or cost arising out of, or in connection with, the performance of its duties, except GTIM is not exculpated from liability arising from losses caused by its gross negligence or willful misconduct or as otherwise provided under applicable federal securities laws. In addition, GTIM expects to expand its activities in this area and, depending on the terms of any future advisory agreements they may enter into, this liability could be increased. GTIM became a registered investment adviser under the federal Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or IAA, on March 30, 2012. A failure by GTIM to comply with the obligations imposed by the IAA on investment advisers, including record-keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage. Unlike competitors that are banks, we are subject to state licensing requirements and substantial compliance costs. Because we are not a depository institution, we do not benefit from a federal exemption to state mortgage banking, loan servicing or debt collection licensing and regulatory requirements. We must comply with state licensing requirements in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and we are sensitive to regulatory changes that may increase our costs through stricter licensing laws, disclosure laws or increased fees or that may impose conditions to licensing that we or our personnel are unable to meet. Future state legislation and changes in regulation may significantly increase the compliance costs on our operations or reduce the amount of ancillary fees, including late fees that we may charge to borrowers. This could make our business cost-prohibitive in the affected state or states and could materially affect our business. Our business would be adversely affected if we lose our licenses. Our operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local statutes, ordinances and regulations. In most states in which we operate, a regulatory agency regulates and enforces laws relating to mortgage servicing companies and mortgage origination companies such as us. These rules and regulations generally provide for licensing as a mortgage servicing company, mortgage origination company, debt collection agency or third party default specialist, as applicable, requirements as to the form and content of contracts and other documentation, licensing of our employees and employee hiring background checks, licensing of independent contractors with whom we contract, restrictions on collection practices, 32 Table of Contents disclosure and record-keeping requirements and enforcement of borrowers’ rights. In certain states, we are subject to periodic examination by state regulatory authorities. Some states in which we operate require special licensing or provide extensive regulation of our business, and state regulators may have broad discretion to restrict our activities or to withdraw our licenses. We may not be able to maintain all requisite licenses and permits, and the failure to satisfy those and other regulatory requirements could result in a default under our servicing agreements and have a material adverse effect on our operations. Those states that currently do not provide extensive regulation of our business may later choose to do so, and if such states so act, we may not be able to obtain or maintain all requisite licenses and permits. The failure to satisfy those and other regulatory requirements could result in a default under our servicing agreements and have a material adverse effect on our operations. Furthermore, the adoption of additional, or the revision of existing, rules and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may incur litigation costs and related losses if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower or if a court overturns a foreclosure. We may incur costs if we are required to, or if we elect to, execute or re-file documents or take other action in our capacity as a servicer in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. We may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. If a court were to overturn a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process, we may have liability to a title insurer of the property sold in foreclosure. These costs and liabilities may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us, particularly to the extent they relate to securitized mortgage loans. In addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action are missing or defective, we could be obligated to cure the defect or repurchase the loan. A significant increase in litigation costs could adversely affect our liquidity, and our inability to be reimbursed for servicing advances could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are required to make servicing advances that can be subject to delays in recovery or may not be recoverable in certain circumstances. During any period in which a borrower is not making payments, we are required under some of our servicing agreements to advance our own funds to meet contractual principal and interest remittance requirements for investors, and pay property taxes, insurance premiums, legal expenses and other protective advances. We also advance funds to maintain, repair and market real estate properties on behalf of investors. Our obligation to make such advances may increase in connection with any future acquisitions of servicing portfolios. As home values change, we may have to reconsider certain of the assumptions underlying our decisions to make advances and, in certain situations, our contractual obligations may require us to make certain advances for which we may not be reimbursed. In addition, in the event a mortgage loan serviced by us defaults or becomes delinquent, the repayment to us of the advance may be delayed until the mortgage loan is repaid or refinanced or a liquidation occurs. A delay in our ability to collect advances may adversely affect our liquidity, and our inability to be reimbursed for advances could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. A downgrade in our servicer ratings could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch rate us as a residential loan servicer. Our current ratings from the rating agencies are important to the conduct of our loan servicing business. These ratings may be downgraded in the future. Any such downgrade could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about borrowers and counterparties and any misrepresented information could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In deciding whether to extend credit or to enter into other transactions with borrowers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of borrowers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of borrowers and counterparties 33 Table of Contents as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. While we have a practice of independently verifying the borrower information that we use in deciding whether to extend credit or to agree to a loan modification, including employment, assets, income and credit score, if any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. We have controls and processes designed to help us identify misrepresented information in our loan originations operations. We, however, may not have detected or may not detect all misrepresented information in our loan originations or from our business clients. Any such misrepresented information could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Technology failures or cyber-attacks against us or our vendors could damage our business operations and reputation, increase our costs, and result in significant third party liability. The financial services industry as a whole is characterized by rapidly changing technologies. System disruptions and failures caused by fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion (cyber-attack), computer viruses and disabling devices, natural disasters and other similar events, may interrupt or delay our ability to provide services to our borrowers. Security breaches, acts of vandalism and developments in computer intrusion capabilities could result in a compromise or breach of the technology that we use to protect our borrowers’ personal information and transaction data. Systems failures could result in reputational damage to our business and cause us to incur significant costs and third party liability, and this could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be unable to protect our technology or keep up with the technology of our competitors. We rely on proprietary and licensed software, and other technology, proprietary information and intellectual property to operate our business and to provide us with a competitive advantage. However, we may be unable to maintain and protect, or prevent others from misappropriating or otherwise violating, our rights in such software, technology, proprietary information and intellectual property. In addition, competitors may be able to develop software and technologies that are as good as or better than our software and technology without violating our rights, which could put us at a disadvantage. Our failure to maintain, protect and continue to develop our software, technology, proprietary information and intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any failure of our internal security measures or those of our vendors, or breach of our privacy protections could cause harm to our reputation and subject us to liability. In the ordinary course of our business, we receive and store certain confidential nonpublic information concerning borrowers including names, addresses, social security numbers and other confidential information. Additionally, we enter into third party relationships to assist with various aspects of our business, some of which require the exchange of confidential borrower information. Although we have put in place a comprehensive information security program that we monitor and update as needed, if a third party were to compromise or breach our security measures or those of the vendors, through electronic, physical or other means, and misappropriate such information, it could cause interruptions in our operations, expose us to significant liabilities, reporting obligations, remediation costs and damage to our reputation. Significant damage to our reputation or the reputation of our clients, could negatively impact our ability to attract or retain clients. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. While we have obtained insurance to cover us against certain cyber security risks and information theft, there can be no guarantee that all losses will be covered or that the insurance limits will be sufficient to cover such losses. We have obtained insurance coverage that protects us against losses from unauthorized penetration of company technology systems, employee theft of customer and/or company private information, and company 34 Table of Contents liability for third party vendors who mishandle company information. This insurance includes coverage for third party losses as well as costs incidental to a breach of company systems such as notification, credit monitoring and ID theft resolution services. However, there can be no guarantee that every potential loss due to cyber-attack or theft of information has been insured against, nor that the limits of the insurance we have acquired will be sufficient to cover all such losses. Legal proceedings and related costs may increase and could adversely affect our financial results. We are routinely involved in legal proceedings concerning matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business. Our recent acquisitions and other pending or potential future acquisitions may also increase the risk that we will be sued. The outcome of these proceedings may adversely affect our financial results. In addition, a number of participants in our industry have been the subject of class action lawsuits and regulatory actions by states’ attorneys general and federal regulators. Litigation and other proceedings may require that we pay attorneys’ fees, settlement costs, damages, penalties or other charges, which could adversely affect our financial results. Governmental and regulatory investigations, both state and federal are increasing in all areas of our business. The costs of responding to the investigations can be substantial. In addition, government-mandated changes from investigations or otherwise, to servicing practices could lead to higher costs and additional administrative burdens, in particular regarding record retention and informational obligations. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely affect our earnings. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending, loan servicing, debt collection practices, and corporate governance, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can also result from media coverage, whether accurate or not. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, counterparties and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our customers and communities, this risk will always be present in our organization. The industry in which we operate is concentrated and highly competitive, and, to the extent we fail to meet these competitive challenges, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We operate in a concentrated and highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of economic, legislative, regulatory or technological changes. A majority of the loans we service are controlled by relatively few entities, in particular GSEs. Competition to service mortgage loans and for mortgage loan originations comes primarily from commercial banks and savings institutions. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources, typically have access to greater financial resources and lower funding costs. All of these factors place us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more favorable relationships than we can. Competition to service residential loans may result in lower margins based on our servicing model. Because of the relatively limited number of customers, our failure to meet the expectations of any customer could materially impact our business. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our volume of mortgage loan originations or reduce the value of our MSRs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Historically, rising interest rates have generally been associated with a lower volume of loan originations and lower pricing margins due to a disincentive for borrowers to refinance at a higher interest rate, while falling 35 Table of Contents interest rates have generally been associated with higher loan originations and higher pricing margins, due to an incentive for borrowers to refinance at a lower interest rate. Our ability to generate positive cash flows on mortgage loans is significantly dependent on our level of mortgage loan originations. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our mortgage loan origination volume, which could have a material and adverse effect on our overall business, consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, changes in interest rates may require us to post additional collateral under certain of our financing arrangements and derivative agreements which could impact our liquidity. Changes in interest rates are also a key driver of the performance of our mortgage servicing business as the values of our MSRs are highly sensitive to changes in interest rates. Historically, the value of our MSRs has increased when interest rates rise, as higher interest rates lead to decreased prepayment rates, and have decreased when interest rates decline, as lower interest rates lead to increased prepayment rates. From time to time we may use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against such interest rate risk. However no hedging strategy can protect us completely, and hedging strategies may fail because they are improperly designed, improperly executed and documented or based on inaccurate assumptions and, as a result, could actually increase our risk and losses. See “ — Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations.” As a result, substantial volatility in interest rates materially affects our mortgage servicing business, as well as our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The lack of liquidity in our portfolio may adversely affect our business. We have invested in residential loans that are not liquid. It may be difficult or impossible to obtain third party pricing on the residential loans that we purchase. Illiquid investments typically experience greater price volatility as a ready market does not exist. In addition, validating third party pricing for illiquid investments may be more subjective than more liquid investments. The illiquidity of our residential loans may make it difficult for us to sell such residential loans if the need or desire arises. In addition, if we are required to quickly liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our portfolio. As a result, our ability to assess or vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We use, and will continue to use, analytical models and data in connection with the pricing of new business and the valuation of our future investments, and any incorrect, misleading or incomplete information used in connection therewith may subject us to potential risks. Given the complexity of our proposed future investments and strategies, we rely, and will continue to rely, on analytical models and information and data, some of which is supplied by third parties. Should our models or such data prove to be incorrect or misleading, any decision made in reliance thereon exposes us to potential risks. Some of the analytical models that we use or will be used by us are predictive in nature. The use of predictive models has inherent risks and may incorrectly forecast future behavior, leading to potential losses. We also use and will continue to use valuation models that rely on market data inputs. If incorrect market data is input into a valuation model, even a tested and well-respected valuation model, it may provide incorrect valuations and, as a result, could provide adverse actual results as compared to the predictive results. If our estimated liability with respect to interest curtailment obligations arising out of servicing errors by RMS is inaccurate, or additional errors are found, and we are required to record additional material amounts, there may be an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Subsequent to the completion of the acquisition of RMS, we discovered a failure to record certain estimated liabilities to investors relating to servicing errors by RMS. FHA regulations provide that servicers meet a series of event-specific timeframes during the default, foreclosure, conveyance, and mortgage insurance claim cycles. Failure to timely meet any processing deadline may stop the accrual of debenture interest otherwise payable in satisfaction of a claim under the FHA mortgage insurance contract and the servicer may be responsible for making the investor whole for any interest curtailment due to not meeting the required event-specific timeframes. On September 24, 2013, as a result of these matters, restatements of certain previously filed historical financial 36 Table of Contents information of RMS were filed. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had a curtailment obligation liability of $53.9 million related to the foregoing which reflects management’s best estimate of the probable lifetime claim. The curtailment liability is recorded in payables and accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. The Company assumed $46.0 million of this liability through the acquisition of RMS, which resulted in a corresponding offset to goodwill and deferred tax assets. The Company also recorded a provision related to the curtailment liability of $6.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2013, which is included in general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. The Company has potential financial statement exposure for an additional $119.1 million related to similar claims, which are reasonably possible, but which the Company believes are the responsibility of third parties (e.g., prior servicers and/or investors). The Company’s potential exposure to this additional risk relates to the possibility that such third parties may claim that the Company is responsible for the servicing liability or that the Company exacerbated an existing failure by the third party. The actual amount, if any, of this exposure is difficult to estimate and requires significant management judgment as curtailment obligations are an emerging industry issue. Because of the uncertainty in the ultimate resolution of these matters as well as uncertainty in regards to the estimate underlying the curtailment obligation liability, there are potential financial statement exposures in excess of the recorded liability that are considered reasonably possible. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not discover additional errors, that this will not recur in the future, that future financial reports will not contain material misstatements or omissions, or that future restatements will not be required. Likewise, these matters might continue to cause a diversion of our management’s time and attention. In addition, errors made by prior servicers resulting in curtailment liabilities are generally indemnified or directly retained by the prior servicer. Although somewhat insulated from exposure to prior servicer errors, there is potential risk of loss in certain circumstances. Given uncertainty surrounding the likelihood of this exposure, a range of possible loss cannot be estimated at this time. To the extent we are required to record additional amounts as liabilities, there may be an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, in September 2013, HUD announced certain changes to the HECM reverse mortgage program that have impacted the reverse mortgage products available to borrowers and have created new regulatory requirements. Most of these changes became effective on September 30, 2013. The full impact of these regulatory developments remains uncertain and any resulting adverse business trends could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing the Reverse Mortgage segment goodwill for impairment. In December 2013, HUD announced a delay of effectiveness for the requirement that every prospective borrower undergo a financial assessment and the requirement that set-aside accounts be established to pay mandatory property charges for borrowers who pose a future risk of defaulting on their reverse mortgages. On October 2, 2013, the Company received a subpoena from the HUD Office of Inspector General requesting documents and other information concerning (i) the curtailment of interest payments on HECM loans serviced or sub-serviced by RMS and (ii) RMS’ contractual arrangements with a third party vendor for the management and disposition of real estate owned properties. The Company is responding to the subpoena and at this stage does not have sufficient information to make an assessment of the outcome or impact of HUD’s investigation. The circumstances which gave rise to the review of interest curtailment obligations and the announced restatement relating thereto continue to create the risk of litigation against us, which could be expensive and could damage our business. As described in more detail below under Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” the Company and certain of our officers and directors were named as defendants in a putative shareholder class action lawsuit. Although this case was dismissed, there is risk that other actions and claims could be filed against us and certain current or former officers and directors based on allegations relating to the failure to record certain estimated liabilities relating to interest curtailment obligations at RMS and the associated restatement adjustments, or based on the alleged failure to self-curtail under federal regulations. We may incur substantial defense costs with respect to existing and potential future claims, regardless of their outcome. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes of any litigation, investigation, claim or other disputes. The resolution of any such matters may be time consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 37 Table of Contents We have historically invested in less-than-prime, non-conforming and other credit-challenged residential loans, which are subject to increased risks relative to prime loans. Our portfolio includes less-than-prime residential loans and sub-performing and non-performing residential loans, which are subject to increased risks of loss. Loans may be, or may become, sub-performing or non-performing for a variety of reasons, including because the underlying property is too highly leveraged or the borrower falls upon financial distress, in either case, resulting in the borrower being unable to meet debt service obligations to us. Such sub-performing or non-performing loans may require a substantial amount of workout negotiations and/or restructuring, which may divert the attention of our senior management team from other activities and entail, among other things, a substantial reduction in the interest rate, capitalization of interest payments and a substantial write-down of the principal of our owned loans. However, even if such restructuring were successfully accomplished, a risk exists that the borrowers will not be able or willing to maintain the restructured payments or refinance the restructured loan upon maturity. In addition, certain loans that we have acquired may have been originated by financial institutions that are or may become insolvent, suffer from serious financial stress or are no longer in existence. As a result, the standards by which such loans were originated, the recourse to the selling institution, and/or the standards by which such loans are being serviced or operated may be adversely affected. Further, loans on properties operating under the close supervision of a mortgage lender are, in certain circumstances, subject to certain additional potential liabilities that may exceed the value of our investment. In the future, it is possible that we may find it necessary or desirable to foreclose on some of the residential loans that we have acquired, and the foreclosure process may be lengthy and expensive. Borrowers may resist mortgage foreclosure actions by asserting numerous claims, counterclaims and defenses against us, including numerous lender liability claims and defenses, even when such assertions may have no basis in fact, in an effort to prolong the foreclosure action and force the lender into a modification of the loan or a favorable buy-out of the borrower’s position. In some states, foreclosure actions can take several years to litigate. At any time prior to or during the foreclosure proceedings, the borrower may file for bankruptcy, which would have the effect of staying the foreclosure actions and further delaying the foreclosure process. Foreclosure may create a negative public perception of the related mortgaged property, resulting in a diminution of its value. Even if we are successful in foreclosing on a loan, the liquidation proceeds upon sale of the underlying real estate may not be sufficient to recover our cost basis in the loan, resulting in a loss to us. Furthermore, costs or delays involved in the effectuation of a foreclosure or a liquidation of the underlying property further reduce the proceeds and thus increase costs and potential loss. Whether or not we have participated in the negotiation of the terms of any such mortgages, there can be no assurance as to the adequacy of the protection of the terms of the loan, including the validity or enforceability of the loan and the maintenance of the anticipated priority and perfection of the applicable security interests. Furthermore, claims may be asserted that might interfere with enforcement of our rights. In the event of a foreclosure, we may assume direct ownership of the underlying real estate. The liquidation proceeds upon sale of such real estate may not be sufficient to recover our cost basis in the loan, resulting in a loss to us. Any costs or delays involved in the effectuation of a foreclosure of the loan or a liquidation of the underlying property will further reduce the proceeds and thus increase the loss. Whole loan mortgages are also subject to “special hazard” risk (property damage caused by hazards, such as earthquakes or environmental hazards, not covered by standard property insurance policies), and to bankruptcy risk (reduction in a borrower’s mortgage debt by a bankruptcy court). In addition, claims may be assessed against us on account of our position as mortgage holder or property owner, including responsibility for tax payments, environmental hazards and other liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 38 Table of Contents Changes in prepayment rates due to changes in interest rates, government mortgage programs or other factors could result in reduced earnings or losses. Changes in prepayment rates due to changes in interest rates, government mortgage programs or other factors could result in reduced earnings or losses. Any increase in prepayments could have a significant impact on our servicing fee revenues, our expenses and on the valuation of our MSRs as follows: • Revenue. If prepayment speeds increase, our servicing fees will decline more rapidly than anticipated because of the greater than expected decrease in the number of loans or unpaid balance on which those fees are based. The reduction in servicing fees would be somewhat offset by increased float earnings because the faster repayment of loans will result in higher balances in the custodial accounts that generate the float earnings. Conversely, decreases in prepayment speeds drive increased servicing fees and lead to lower float balances and float earnings. • Expenses. Amortization of MSRs is a significant operating expense. Since we amortize servicing rights in proportion to total expected income over the life of a portfolio, an increase in prepayment speeds leads to increased amortization expense as we revise downward our estimate of total expected income. Faster prepayment speeds will also result in higher compensating interest expense. Decreases in prepayment speeds lead to decreased amortization expense as the period over which we amortize MSRs is extended. Slower prepayment speeds also lead to lower compensating interest expense. • Valuation of MSRs. We base the price we pay for MSRs and the rate of amortization of those rights on, among other things, our projection of the cash flows from the related pool of mortgage loans. Our expectation of prepayment speeds is a significant assumption underlying those cash flow projections. If prepayment speeds were significantly greater than expected, the carrying value of our MSRs could exceed their estimated fair value. When the carrying value of MSRs exceeds their fair value, we are required to record an impairment charge which has a negative impact on our financial results. The residential loans we service and/or have invested in are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in reduced earnings. Residential loans are typically secured by single-family residential property and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure, and risks of loss. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a residential property is dependent upon the income or assets of the borrower. A number of factors, including a general economic downturn, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances, may impair borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans. In the event of the bankruptcy of a residential loan borrower, the residential loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the residential loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a residential loan can be an expensive and lengthy process which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed residential loan. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of past, pending or potential acquisitions or potential future acquisitions or joint venture investments, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We periodically explore opportunities to grow our business through the acquisition of MSRs and other businesses and assets. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of past, pending or potential future acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate these acquisitions into our business and is subject to certain risks, including: • our ability to successfully combine the businesses with those of the Company; • whether the combined businesses will perform as expected; • with respect to the completed RMS Acquisition and the S1L Acquisition specifically, the possibility that the market for reverse mortgages does not meet our expectations; 39 Table of Contents • the possibility that we inappropriately value assets or businesses we acquire, that we pay more than the value we will derive from the acquisitions, or that the value declines after the acquisition; • the reduction of our cash available for operations and other uses; • the disruption to our operations inherent in making numerous acquisitions over a relatively short period of time; • the incurrence of significant indebtedness to finance our acquisitions; • the assumption of certain known and unknown liabilities of the acquired businesses; • uncoordinated market functions; • unanticipated issues in integrating the acquired business or any information, communications or other systems; • unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing and administration methods; • unanticipated liabilities associated with the acquired business, assets or joint venture; • additional costs or capital requirements beyond forecasted amounts; • delays in the completion of acquisitions, including due to delays in or the failure to obtain approvals from governmental or regulatory entities; • lack of expected synergies, failure to realize the anticipated benefits we expect to realize from the acquisition or joint venture, or failure of the assets or businesses we acquire to perform at levels meeting our expectations; • not retaining key employees; and • the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns. These risks are increased by the fact that we have acquired several disparate businesses, located across the country in a relatively short period of time. If we are not able to successfully combine the businesses and assets with those of the Company within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisitions may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, the combined businesses and assets may not perform as expected, and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. It is possible that the integration of the businesses could result in the loss of key employees, both from our business and the acquired businesses, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses, unexpected integration issues, higher than expected integration costs and an overall post-closing integration process that takes longer than originally anticipated. Specifically, issues that must be addressed in the integration of our operations and to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition so the combined business performs as expected, include, among other things: • combining the companies’ business development and operations; • integrating the companies’ technologies and services; • harmonizing the companies’ operating practices, employee development and compensation programs, technology platforms, internal controls and other policies, procedures and processes; • consolidating the companies’ corporate, administrative and information technology infrastructure; • maintaining existing agreements with customers and avoiding delays in entering into new agreements with prospective customers and suppliers; • coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; and • successfully transferring large volumes of assets. Further, prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices we considered acceptable, and we expect that we will experience this condition in the future. In addition, in order to finance an acquisition we 40 Table of Contents may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders. Also, it is possible that we will expend considerable resources in the pursuit of an acquisition that, ultimately, either does not close or is terminated. If we incur additional indebtedness to finance an acquisition, the acquired business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service that additional indebtedness. We cannot assure you that future acquisitions or joint ventures will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, or that we realize all of the anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions or joint ventures. We may not be successful in retaining employees of any business we acquire or in conveying the knowledge of our long-serving personnel to newly hired personnel and retaining our internal culture. We regularly explore opportunities to grow our business, including through acquiring companies. Uncertainty about the effect of any such acquisition on the acquired company’s employees may impair our ability to retain management and key personnel of the acquired business. If key employees of the acquired business depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration, financial incentives or a desire not to continue as employees of the combined business, we may have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring and retaining replacements for departing employees, which could reduce our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In addition, much of our success can be attributed to the knowledge, experience, and loyalty of our key management and other personnel who have served us for many years. As we grow and expand our operations, we will need to incorporate employees from acquired businesses and hire new employees to implement our business strategies. It is important that the knowledge and experience of our senior management and our overall philosophies, business model, and operational standards, including our differentiated “high-touch” approach to servicing, are adequately conveyed to, and shared by, these new members of our team. At the same time, we must ensure that our hiring and retention practices serve to maintain our internal culture. If we are unable to achieve these integration objectives, our growth could come at a risk to our business model, which has been a major underlying component of our success. Risks Related To Our Common Stock Market interest rates may have an effect on the trading value of our shares. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our common stock is our dividend rate as a percentage of our share price relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may demand a higher dividend rate or seek alternative investments paying higher dividends or interest. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market value of our shares. For instance, if interest rates rise, it is likely that the market price of our shares will decrease as market rates on interest-bearing securities, such as bonds, increase. Additionally, with the consummation of our acquisition of Green Tree, the Company no longer qualifies as a REIT. Consequently, we will no longer distribute a minimum of 90% of our taxable income each year as was required to maintain our REIT status. Instead, all future distributions, if any, will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and liquidity, and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant, as well as any contractual restrictions, including the covenants in our credit agreement and Senior Notes Indenture that limit our ability to pay dividends. We may issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock. Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue one or more classes of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our stockholders. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividends, liquidation rights, or voting rights. If we issue preferred stock, it may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to holders of our common stock or adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of our common stock. 41 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit a change in our control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of such shares. We are subject to the “business combination’ provisions of the MGCL that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our then outstanding stock or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting stock) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and, thereafter, imposes special appraisal rights and supermajority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations. These provisions of the MGCL do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by the Board of Directors of a corporation prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, our Board of Directors has by resolution exempted business combinations between us and any other person, provided that the business combination is first approved by our Board of Directors. This resolution, however, may be altered or repealed in whole or in part at any time. If this resolution is repealed, or our Board of Directors does not otherwise approve a business combination, this statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. The “control share” provisions of the MGCL provide that “control shares” of a Maryland corporation (defined as shares which, when aggregated with all other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in the election of directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the acquisition of issued and outstanding “control shares,” subject to certain exceptions) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding votes entitled to be cast by the acquirer of control shares, our officers and our employees who are also our directors. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares of stock. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. The “unsolicited takeover” provisions of the MGCL permit our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain provisions if we have a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and at least three independent directors. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes of directors. Directors of each class are elected for three-year terms upon the expiration of their current terms, and each year one class of directors will be elected by our stockholders. The staggered terms of our directors may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our authorized but unissued shares of common and preferred stock may prevent a change in our control. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock. In addition, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock into other classes or series of shares and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our Board of Directors may establish a class or series of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our shares of common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. 42 Table of Contents Restrictions on transfer and ownership related to our former status as a REIT are no longer applicable leaving us susceptible to takeover. Provisions in our charter that limited beneficial or constructive ownership of our stock by any one person to 9.8% in value of our outstanding common stock, or 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever was more restrictive, are no longer applicable as a result of our decision to no longer to qualify as a REIT. This means that individuals or entities, or groups of individuals or entities could acquire a controlling interest in our company and thereafter, adversely change our operations and/or strategies. Tax Risks We no longer qualify for taxation as a REIT for United States federal income tax purposes, and there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge our previous REIT status. Although we elected for United States federal income tax purposes to be treated as REIT through December 31, 2010, as a result of the acquisition of Green Tree we did not qualify as a REIT in 2011, 2012 or 2013, and we will not qualify as a REIT for our current taxable year or any year in the foreseeable future, and, as a result, we will be unable to claim the United States federal income tax benefits associated with REIT status. There can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge our qualification as a REIT for previous years in which we elected REIT status. Although we believe we did qualify as a REIT in each such year, if the Internal Revenue Service were to successfully challenge our previous REIT status, we would suffer adverse United States federal income tax consequences. Risks Relating to Our Relationship with Walter Energy We may have substantial additional liability for U.S. federal income tax allegedly owed by Walter Energy. The Company was part of Walter Energy, consolidated group prior to the spin-off from Walter Energy on April 17, 2009. As such, the Company is jointly and severally liable with Walter Energy for any final taxes, interest and/or penalties owed by the Walter Energy consolidated group during the time that the Company was a part of the Walter Energy consolidated group. However, in connection with the spin-off of the Company’s business from Walter Energy, the Company and Walter Energy entered into a Tax Separation Agreement dated April 17, 2009, or Tax Separation Agreement, pursuant to which Walter Energy is responsible for the payment of all federal income taxes (including any interest or penalties applicable thereto) of the consolidated group. Nonetheless, to the extent that Walter Energy is unable to pay any amounts owed, the Company could be responsible for any unpaid amounts including, according to Walter Energy’s Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 26, 2014, those related to the following: • The Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, has filed a proof of claim for a substantial amount of taxes, interest and penalties with respect to fiscal years ended August 31, 1983 through May 31, 1994. The public filing goes on to disclose that the issues have been litigated in bankruptcy court and that an opinion was issued by the court in June 2010 as to the remaining disputed issues. The court instructed the parties to submit a final order addressing all issues that have been litigated. The deadline for such an order reportedly was May 10, 2013. The filing further states that the amounts initially asserted by the IRS do not reflect the subsequent resolution of various issues through settlements or concessions by the parties. Walter Energy has stated that it believes that those portions of the claim which remain in dispute or are subject to appeal substantially overstate the amount of taxes allegedly owed, but, because of the complexity of the issues presented and the uncertainties associated with litigation, Walter Energy is unable to predict the outcome of the adversary proceeding. • The IRS completed an audit of Walter Energy’s federal income tax returns for the years ended May 31, 2000 through December 31, 2005. The IRS issued 30-Day Letters to Walter Energy proposing changes for these tax years which Walter Energy has protested. Walter Energy filed a formal protest and the case was heard before the Appeals Division on March 8, 2011. As of December 31, 2013, no final resolution had been reached. Walter Energy’s filing states that the disputed issues in this audit period are similar to the issues remaining in the above-referenced dispute and therefore Walter Energy believes that its financial exposure for these years is limited to interest and possible penalties. 43 Table of Contents • Walter Energy reports that the IRS has completed an audit of Walter Energy’s tax returns filed for 2006 through 2008 and has proposed adjustments to these periods. Thereafter, Walter Energy has reported that it received notice that the audit of the 2006 through 2008 tax years had been reopened for further development. Because the examination is ongoing, Walter Energy reports that it cannot estimate the amount of any resulting tax deficiency, if any. • Walter Energy reports that the IRS has begun an audit of Walter Energy’s tax returns filed for 2009 and 2010, but, because the examination is ongoing, Walter Energy cannot estimate the amount of any resulting tax deficiency, if any. Our business was spun off from Walter Energy in April 2009 and would not be responsible for taxes incurred by Walter Energy after that time. Walter Energy reports that it believes that all of its current and prior tax filing positions have substantial merit and intends to defend vigorously any tax claims asserted and that it believes that they have sufficient accruals to address any claims, including interest and penalties. Walter Energy reports that it anticipates a final order will be issued in 2014 settling the issues in the bankruptcy court for the tax years being considered by the appeals (2000 — 2008). The Tax Separation Agreement also provides that Walter Energy is responsible for the preparation and filing of any tax returns for the consolidated group for the periods when the Company was part of the Walter Energy consolidated group. This arrangement may result in conflicts between Walter Energy and the Company. In addition, the spin-off of the Company from Walter Energy was intended to qualify as a tax-free spin-off under Section 355 of the Code. The Tax Separation Agreement provides generally that if the spin-off is determined not to be tax-free pursuant to Section 355 of the Code, any taxes imposed on Walter Energy or a Walter Energy shareholder as a result of such determination, or Distribution Taxes, which are the result of the acts or omissions of Walter Energy or its affiliates, will be the responsibility of Walter Energy. However, should Distribution Taxes result from the acts or omissions of the Company or its affiliates, such Distribution Taxes will be the responsibility of the Company. The Tax Separation Agreement goes on to provide that Walter Energy and the Company shall be jointly liable, pursuant to a designated allocation formula, for any Distribution Taxes that are not specifically allocated to Walter Energy or the Company. To the extent that Walter Energy is unable or unwilling to pay any Distribution Taxes for which it is responsible under the Tax Separation Agreement, the Company could be liable for those taxes as a result of being a member of the Walter Energy consolidated group for the year in which the spin-off occurred. The Tax Separation Agreement also provides for payments from Walter Energy in the event that an additional taxable dividend is required to cure a REIT disqualification from the determination of a shortfall in the distribution of non-REIT earnings and profits made immediately following the spin-off. As with Distribution Taxes, the Company will be responsible for this dividend if Walter Energy is unable or unwilling to pay. The Tax Separation Agreement between us and Walter Energy allocates to us certain tax risks associated with the spin-off of the financing division and the Merger and imposes other obligations that may affect our business. Walter Energy effectively controlled all of our tax decisions for periods during which we were a member of the Walter Energy consolidated U.S. federal income tax group and certain combined, consolidated, or unitary state and local income tax groups. Under the terms of the Tax Separation Agreement between Walter Energy and Walter Investment Management LLC, or WIM, dated April 17, 2009, WIM generally computes WIM’s tax liability for purposes of its taxable years ended December 31, 2008 and April 16, 2009, on a stand-alone basis, but Walter Energy has sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including tax audits) relating to WIM’s U.S. federal income and combined state returns, to file all such returns on WIM’s behalf and to determine the amount of WIM’s liability to (or entitlement to payment from) Walter Energy for such periods. This arrangement may result in conflicts of interests between us and Walter Energy. In addition, the Tax Separation Agreement provides that if the spin-off is determined not to be tax-free pursuant to Section 355 of the Code, WIM (and therefore we) generally will be responsible for any taxes incurred by Walter Energy or its stockholders if such taxes result from certain of our actions or omissions or for a percentage of any such taxes that are not a direct result of either our or Walter Energy’s actions or omissions based upon a designated allocation formula. 44 Table of Contents Additionally, to the extent that Walter Energy was unable to pay taxes, if any, attributable to the spin-off and for which it is responsible under the Tax Separation Agreement, we could be liable for those taxes as a result of WIM being a member of the Walter Energy consolidated group for the year in which the spin-off occurred. Moreover, the Tax Separation Agreement obligates WIM to take certain tax positions that are consistent with those taken historically by Walter Energy. In the event we do not take such positions, we could be liable to Walter Energy to the extent our failure to do so results in an increased tax liability or the reduction of any tax asset of Walter Energy. We may have liability for losses resulting from Walter Energy’s failure to properly construct homes on which we held and/or serviced mortgages. In connection with the spin-off of our business from Walter Energy, we entered into a Joint Litigation Agreement with Walter Energy pursuant to which each party agreed to be responsible for any claims or litigation arising out of our respective historical businesses, Walter Energy remained responsible for claims related to homebuilding and we agreed to be responsible for claims related to mortgage servicing and insurance. From time to time, owners of homes constructed by Walter Energy subsidiaries refuse to make payments on their mortgages based on claims that their homes were improperly constructed. To the extent this results in a loss, it is our position that, pursuant to the Joint Litigation Agreement, Walter Energy is responsible for such loss. In light of the current economic conditions in the U.S., homeowners in increasing numbers are seeking to avoid paying their mortgages and may make claims of faulty construction in order to avoid such payments. To the extent that Walter Energy is unwilling to pay these claims, we may be forced to pursue these claims against Walter Energy under the Joint Litigation Agreement. Should we be unsuccessful in our pursuit of such claims, or should Walter Energy be unable to pay the claims, the losses would be our responsibility; and should the number of such claims increase materially in number, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 