Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our shares of common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks occur, the market price of our shares of common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) Risks Related to Our Operations We may not be able to gain market acceptance of our co-processor strategy sufficient or timely enough to grow revenue and margin dollars in support of turning the Company to profitability in a timely manner. In January 2007, we presented an overview of changes we are making to the strategic direction and business model for the company. We have assessed the Company’s capabilities and core strengths and determined that in order for us to be successful, we need to focus on our core competencies which are 1) delivering the highest levels of video and image quality for the flat panel display markets and 2) providing industry leading system and chip solutions for our projector customers. Core to our strategy of driving to higher video and pixel processing performance is that we believe there is an inflection point emerging with the next generation displays coming on line later this year and in 2008. Some of the display industry trends on the horizon are that liquid crystal display (“LCD”) panels will be migrating from 60hz to 120hz; LCD panels are continuing to move to higher resolutions such as true 1080p; and larger displays measuring 50 and 60 inches are moving into the mainstream over the next 24 months. There can be no assurances that our change in strategy will result in market acceptance adequate enough to grow revenue and margin dollars sufficient enough to return the Company to profitability in a timely manner. We may not be able to implement our 2006 restructuring plans in a timely manner, or at all, and even if we do, the plan may not result in the anticipated benefits and we may need to initiate additional restructuring efforts in the future. Phase one of our restructuring plan, announced in April 2006, was designed to improve our breakeven point by reducing manufacturing overhead and operating expenses and focused on our core business in advanced televisions. This plan involved integrating the Internet Protocol Television (“IPTV”) technology we acquired from Equator Technologies, Inc. (“Equator”) with our advanced television technology product developments and resulted in lower compensation expense, consolidated office space, and reduced discretionary spending. The second phase was announced in November 2006 and is designed to further reduce operating expenses. This plan includes additional consolidation of our North American operations in order to achieve reduced compensation and rent expenses, while at the same time, making critical infrastructure investments in people, process and information systems to improve our operations. The plans may take longer to implement than we expect, which could impact the timing and amount of anticipated benefits. In addition, unforeseen circumstances may result in our not being able to obtain the full benefits of the restructuring plans, or our assumptions about the benefits of the plans may prove incorrect or inaccurate, leading to a reduced benefit. Finally, we cannot assure you that future 19 Table of Contents restructuring efforts will not be necessary, and whether the expected benefits from any future restructuring efforts will be attained. We have expended a substantial amount of our resources on the acquisition of Equator and we may not realize a significant return on our investment. We acquired Equator in June 2005 for an aggregate purchase price of $118,116 and recorded, among other assets, $57,521 in goodwill, $36,800 in acquired developed technology and $4,200 in other acquired intangible assets. The acquisition of Equator required a substantial investment on our part. Equator’s product offerings and technological developments related to IPTV set-top boxes, digital media appliances, videoconferencing devices and security devices. These are emerging technologies and the markets they serve are developing and largely untested. We did not have direct experience in developing and selling products into these markets. Our April 2006 restructuring plan included integrating the technology that we acquired from Equator with our advanced television technology developments. We are no longer pursuing stand-alone digital media streaming devices markets that are not core to advanced television. As a result, we will not be able to retain certain customers of Equator and will realize decreasing revenues related to the digital media streaming devices market over time as we exit this portion of our business. In addition, we have lost employees who have knowledge and understanding of the Equator technology and the digital media streaming devices market. Currently, only a few of the Equator employees remain employed by us. During the first half of 2006, we recorded impairment losses on goodwill and intangible assets acquired from Equator. Only $7,925 of the developed technology and $523 of the customer relationships intangible assets acquired from Equator remain on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2006. All of these factors may make it more difficult to integrate the Equator technology with our own and increase the risk that we will not realize any significant return on our investment. We have incurred substantial indebtedness as a result of the sale of convertible debentures. As of December 31, 2006, we have $140,000 of 1.75% convertible debentures outstanding. These debt obligations are due in 2024, although the holders of debentures have the right to require us to purchase all or a portion of their debentures on May 15, 2011, May 15, 2014 and May 15, 2019. Additionally, one of the covenants of our debenture agreement can be interpreted such that if we are late with any of our required filings under the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (“1934 Act”), and if we fail to effect a cure within 60 days, the holders of the debentures can put the debentures back to the Company, whereby the debentures become immediately due and payable. As a result of our restructuring efforts, the Company has fewer employees to perform the day-to-day controls, processes and activities and additionally, certain functions have been transferred to new employees who are not as familiar with procedures, which increases the risk that we will be unable to make timely filings in accordance with the 1934 Act. These debentures could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain additional debt financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes, limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business, reduce funds available for use in our operations and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. We expect holders of the debentures to require us to purchase our outstanding debentures on May 15, 2011, the earliest date allowed by the terms of debentures. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, some of which are beyond our control. 20 Table of Contents Because of the complex nature of our semiconductor designs and associated manufacturing processes and the rapid evolution of our customers’ product designs, we may not be able to develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner, which could decrease customer demand for our products and reduce our revenues. The development of our semiconductors, some of which incorporate mixed analog and digital signal processing, is highly complex. These complexities require us to employ advanced designs and manufacturing processes that are unproven. We have experienced increased development time and delays in introducing new products that resulted in significantly less revenue than originally expected for those products. We will not always succeed in developing new products or product enhancements nor will we always do so in a timely manner. Acquisitions have significantly added to the complexity of our product development efforts. We must now coordinate very complex product development programs between multiple geographically dispersed locations. Restructuring plans have also significantly impacted our product development efforts. We may not be successful in timely delivery of new products with a reduced number of employees or with newer inexperienced employees. Many of our designs involve the development of new high-speed analog circuits that are difficult to simulate and that require physical prototypes not required by the primarily digital circuits we currently design. The result can be longer and less predictable development cycles. Successful development and timely introduction of new or enhanced products depends on a number of other factors, including, but not limited to: • accurate prediction of customer requirements and evolving industry standards, including video decoding, digital interface and content piracy protection standards; • development of advanced display technologies and capabilities; • timely completion and introduction of new product designs; • use of advanced foundry processes and achievement of high manufacturing yields; and • market acceptance of new products. If we are not able to successfully develop and introduce products in a timely manner, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. If we do not achieve additional design wins in the future, our ability to grow will be seriously limited. Our future success depends on developers of advanced display products designing our products into their systems. To achieve design wins, we must define and deliver cost-effective, innovative and integrated semiconductors. Once a supplier’s products have been designed into a system, the developer may be reluctant to change its source of components due to the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier. Accordingly, the failure on our part to obtain additional design wins with leading branded manufacturers or integrators, and to successfully design, develop and introduce new products and product enhancements could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Achieving a design win does not necessarily mean that a developer will order large volumes of our products. A design win is not a binding commitment by a developer to purchase our products. Rather, it is a decision by a developer to use our products in the design process of that developer’s products. Developers can choose at any time to discontinue using our products in their designs or product development efforts. If our products are chosen to be incorporated into a developer’s products, we may 21 Table of Contents still not realize significant revenues from that developer if that developer’s products are not commercially successful or if that developer chooses to qualify a second source. Because of our long product development process and sales cycles, we may incur substantial costs before we earn associated revenues and may not ultimately sell as many units of our products as we originally anticipated. We develop products based on anticipated market and customer requirements and incur substantial product development expenditures, which can include the payment of large up-front, third-party license fees and royalties, prior to generating associated revenues. Our work under these projects is technically challenging and places considerable demands on our limited resources, particularly on our most senior engineering talent. Because the development of our products incorporates not only our complex and evolving technology, but also our customers’ specific requirements, a lengthy sales process is often required before potential customers begin the technical evaluation of our products. Our customers typically perform numerous tests and extensively evaluate our products before incorporating them into their systems. The time required for testing, evaluation and design of our products into a customer’s system can take up to nine months or more. It can take an additional nine months before a customer commences volume shipments of systems that incorporate our products. We cannot assure that the time required for the testing, evaluation and design of our products by our customers would not exceed nine months. Because of this lengthy development cycle, we will experience delays between the time we incur expenditures for research and development, sales and marketing, and inventory and the time we generate revenues, if any, from these expenditures. Additionally, if actual sales volumes for a particular product are substantially less than originally anticipated, we may experience large write-offs of capitalized license fees, product masks or other capitalized or deferred product-related costs that would negatively affect our operating results. These factors could have a material and adverse effect on our long-term business and results of operations. The year ended December 31, 2004 was our only year of profitability since inception and we may be unable to achieve profitability in future periods. The year ended December 31, 2004 was our first and only year of profitability since inception, during which we generated net income of $21,781. Since then, we have incurred a net loss of $204,178 and $42,610 for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and our accumulated deficit through December 31, 2006 is $306,376. In April 2006, we initiated a restructuring plan to improve our breakeven point by reducing manufacturing overhead and operating expenses and focusing on our core business. In November 2006, we initiated an additional restructuring plan to further reduce operating expenses. We cannot be certain these plans will be successful or that we will achieve profitability in the future or, if we do, that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, if we are not profitable in the future, we may be unable to continue our operations. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results make it difficult to predict our future performance and may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results have varied from quarter to quarter and are likely to vary in the future based on a number of factors related to our industry and the markets for our products that are difficult or impossible to predict. Some of these factors are not in our control and any of them may cause our 22 Table of Contents quarterly operating results or the price of our common stock to fluctuate. These factors include, but are not limited to: • demand for multimedia projectors, advanced televisions, and LCD panel products; • demand and timing of orders for our products; • the deferral of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements from us or our competitors or due to a reduction in our end customers’ demand; • the loss of one or more of our key distributors or customers or a reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of these parties; • changes in the available production capacity at the semiconductor fabrication foundries that manufacture our products and changes in the costs of manufacturing; • our ability to provide adequate supplies of our products to customers and avoid excess inventory; • the announcement or introduction of products and technologies by our competitors; • changes in product mix, product costs or pricing, or distribution channels; and • general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the advanced display and semiconductor markets. Fluctuations in our quarterly results could adversely affect the price of our common stock in a manner unrelated to our long-term operating performance. Because our operating results are volatile and difficult to predict, you should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. Additionally, it is possible that in some future quarter our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock may decline significantly. Our products are characterized by average selling prices that decline over relatively short periods of time, which will negatively affect financial results unless we are able to reduce our product costs or introduce new products with higher average selling prices. Average selling prices for our products decline over relatively short periods of time, while many of our product costs are fixed. When our average selling prices decline, our gross profit declines unless we are able to sell more units or reduce the cost to manufacture our products. Our operating results are negatively affected when revenue or gross profit declines. We have experienced declines in our average selling prices and expect that we will continue to experience them in the future, although we cannot predict when they may occur or how severe they will be. Changes in stock-based compensation accounting rules have adversely impacted our operating results and may adversely impact our stock price. On January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123R, Shared-Based Payments (“SFAS 123R”), which requires all share-based payments, including grants of stock options, to be accounted for at fair value and expensed over the service period for financial reporting purposes. As a result, our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2006 contain, and our operating results for future periods will contain, a charge for share-based compensation related to stock options and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan (“ESPP”). The adoption of SFAS 123R had a significant impact on our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2006, with stock-based compensation expense of $9,556. We expect SFAS 123R will continue to have a significant adverse impact on our operating results in the future. We cannot predict the effect that this adverse impact on our reported operating results will have on the trading price of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents Failure to manage any expansion efforts effectively could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our ability to successfully market and sell our products in a rapidly evolving market requires effective planning and management processes. We continue to attempt to increase the scope of our operations. Our past growth, and our expected future growth, places a significant strain on our management systems and resources including our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures. To manage any expansion efforts effectively, we must implement and improve operational and financial systems, train and manage our employee base and attract and retain qualified personnel with relevant experience. We must also manage multiple relationships with customers, business partners, contract manufacturers, suppliers and other third parties. We could spend substantial amounts of time and money in connection with expansion efforts and may incur unexpected costs. Our systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support our operations and we may not be able to expand quickly enough to exploit potential market opportunities. If we do not manage expansion efforts effectively our operating expenses could increase more rapidly than our revenue, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to successfully integrate any future acquisition or equity investment we make, which could disrupt our business and severely harm our financial condition. We may not be able to successfully integrate businesses, products, technologies or personnel of any entity that we might acquire in the future, and any failure to do so could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition. In addition, if we acquire any company with weak internal controls, it will take time to get the acquired company up to the same level of operating effectiveness as Pixelworks and to implement adequate internal control, management, financial and operating reporting systems. Our inability to address these risks could negatively affect our operating results. To date, we have acquired Panstera in January 2001, nDSP in January 2002, Jaldi in September 2002 and Equator in June 2005. In March 2003, we announced the execution of a definitive merger agreement with Genesis Microchip, Inc.; however, the merger was terminated in August 2003, and we incurred $8,949 of expenses related to the transaction. In the third quarter of 2003, we made an investment of $10,000 in Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (“SMIC”). We intend to continue to consider investments in or acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies. The acquisitions of Equator, Panstera, nDSP and Jaldi contained a very high level of risk primarily because the investments were made based on in-process technological development that may not have been completed, or if completed, may not have become commercially viable. These and any future acquisitions and investments could result in: • issuance of stock that dilutes current shareholders’ percentage ownership; • incurrence of debt; • assumption of liabilities; • amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets; • impairment of goodwill; • large and immediate write-offs; or • decreases in cash that could otherwise serve as working capital. Our operation of any acquired business will also involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: 24 Table of Contents • problems combining the acquired operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations. We may not be able to respond to the rapid technological changes in the markets in which we compete, or seek to compete, or we may not be able to comply with industry standards in the future, making our products less desirable or obsolete. The markets in which we compete or seek to compete are subject to rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changing customer requirements for new products and features, and evolving industry standards. The introduction of new technologies and emergence of new industry standards could render our products less desirable or obsolete, which could harm our business. Examples of changing industry standards include the introduction of high-definition television (“HDTV”), which includes the ATSC format in the United States, DVB format in Europe and ARIB in Japan, new video decoding technology, such as H.264 or Windows Media 9, new digital receivers and displays with resolutions that have required us to accelerate development of new products to meet these new standards. Because we do not have long-term commitments from our customers and plan purchases based on estimates of customer demand which may be inaccurate, we must contract for the manufacture of our products based on those potentially inaccurate estimates. Our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our customers may cancel or defer purchase orders at any time. This process requires us to make numerous forecast assumptions concerning demand, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If our customers or we overestimate demand, we may purchase components or have products manufactured that we may not be able to use or sell. As a result, we would have excess inventory, which would negatively affect our operating results. For example, during 2005 and 2006 we overestimated demand for certain inventory which lead to relatively significant charges for obsolete inventory in 2006. Conversely, if our customers or we underestimate demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. Our dependence on selling to distributors and integrators increases the complexity of managing our supply chain and may result in excess inventory or inventory shortages. Selling to distributors and integrators reduces our ability to forecast sales and increases the complexity of our business. Since our distributors act as intermediaries between us and the companies using our products, we must rely on our distributors to accurately report inventory levels and production forecasts. Some of our products are sold to integrators, who then integrate our semiconductors into a system that is then sold to an original equipment manufacturer or “OEM.” This adds another layer between us and the ultimate source of demand for our products, the consumer. These arrangements require us to manage a more complex supply chain and monitor the financial condition and creditworthiness of our distributors, integrators and customers. Our failure to manage one or more of these challenges could result in excess inventory or shortages that could seriously impact our operating results or limit the ability of companies using our semiconductors to deliver their products. 25 Table of Contents Integration of software in our products adds complexity and cost that may affect our ability to achieve design wins and may affect our profitability. Our products incorporate software and software development tools. The integration of software adds complexity, may extend our internal development programs and could impact our customers’ development schedules. This complexity requires increased coordination between hardware and software development schedules and may increase our operating expenses without a corresponding increase in product revenue. This additional level of complexity lengthens the sales cycle and may result in customers selecting competitive products requiring less software integration. Our software development tools may be incompatible with industry standards and challenging to implement, which could slow product development or cause us to lose customers and design wins. Our existing products incorporate complex software tools designed to help customers bring products into production. Software development is a complex process and we are dependent on software development languages and operating systems from vendors that may compromise our ability to design software in a timely manner. Also, software development is a volatile market and new software languages are introduced to the market that may be incompatible with our existing systems and tools. New software development languages may not be compatible with our own, requiring significant engineering efforts to migrate our existing systems in order to be compatible with those new languages. Existing or new software development tools could make our current products obsolete or hard to use. Software development disruptions could slow our product development or cause us to lose customers and design wins. Our products could become obsolete if necessary licenses of third-party technology are not available to us or are only available on terms that are not commercially viable. We license technology from third parties that is incorporated into our products or product enhancements. Future products or product enhancements may require additional third-party licenses that may not be available to us or may not be available on terms that are commercially reasonable. If we are unable to obtain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements, we may have to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, either of which could seriously harm the competitiveness of our products. We currently have access to certain key technology, owned by independent third parties, through license agreements. In the event of a change in control at the licensor, it may become difficult to attain access to such licensed technology. Our limited ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights could harm our competitive position by allowing our competitors to access our proprietary technology and to introduce similar products. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology, including our semiconductor designs and software. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to help protect our proprietary technologies. As of December 31, 2006, we hold 60 patents and had 92 patent applications pending for protection of our significant technologies. Competitors in both the U.S. and foreign countries, many of whom have substantially greater resources, may apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make and sell our products, or develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Effective copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. In addition, we provide the computer programming code for our software to selected customers in connection with their product 26 Table of Contents development efforts, thereby increasing the risk that customers will misappropriate our proprietary software. We cannot assure you that the degree of protection offered by patents or trade secret laws will be sufficient. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any patents will be issued as a result of any pending applications, or that, if issued, any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Others may bring infringement actions against us that could be time consuming and expensive to defend. We may become subject to claims involving patents or other intellectual property rights. Intellectual property claims could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. In addition, intellectual property claims may be brought against customers that incorporate our products in the design of their own products. These claims, regardless of their success or merit and regardless of whether we are named as defendants in a lawsuit, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert the time and attention of management and technical personnel. Any future intellectual property litigation or claims also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; • attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; or • pay damages for past infringement claims that are determined to be valid or which are arrived at in settlement of such litigation or threatened litigation. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we may be unable to manufacture and sell our products, which could seriously harm our business. In addition, we may not be able to develop, license or acquire non-infringing technology under reasonable terms. These developments could result in an inability to compete for customers or could adversely affect our results of operations. Our highly integrated products and high-speed mixed signal products are difficult to manufacture without defects and the existence of defects could result in increased costs, delays in the availability of our products, reduced sales of products or claims against us. The manufacture of semiconductors is a complex process and it is often difficult for semiconductor foundries to produce semiconductors free of defects. Because many of our products are more highly integrated than other semiconductors and incorporate mixed analog and digital signal processing and embedded memory technology, they are even more difficult to produce without defects. Despite testing by both our customers and us, errors or performance problems may be found in existing or new semiconductors and software. The ability to manufacture products of acceptable quality depends on both product design and manufacturing process technology. Since defective products can be caused by design or manufacturing difficulties, identifying quality problems can occur only by analyzing and testing our semiconductors in a system after they have been manufactured. The difficulty in identifying defects is compounded because the process technology is unique to each of the multiple semiconductor foundries we contract with to manufacture our products. Failure to achieve defect-free products due to their increasing complexity may result in an increase in our costs and delays in the availability of our products. 27 Table of Contents For example, we have experienced field failures of our semiconductors in certain customer system applications that required us to institute additional testing. As a result of these field failures, we incurred warranty costs due to customers returning potentially affected products. Our customers have also experienced delays in receiving product shipments from us that resulted in the loss of revenue and profits. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. Shipment of defective products may harm our reputation with customers, and result in loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. Dependence on a limited number of sole-source, third-party manufacturers for our products exposes us to shortages based on capacity allocation or low manufacturing yield, errors in manufacturing, price increases with little notice, volatile inventory levels and delays in product delivery, which could result in delays in satisfying customer demand, increased costs and loss of revenues. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility and we do not have the resources to manufacture our products internally. We contract with third-party foundries for wafer fabrication and other manufacturers for assembly and testing of our products. Our requirements represent only a small portion of the total production capacity of our contract manufacturers, who have in the past re-allocated capacity to other customers even during periods of high demand for our products. We expect this may occur again in the future. We have limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields, potential errors in manufacturing and production costs. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our third-party manufacturers so they are not obligated to supply us with products for any specific period of time, quantity or price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. From time to time, our contract manufacturers increase prices charged to produce our products with little notice. If we are unable to obtain our products from our contract manufacturers on schedule, our ability to satisfy customer demand will be harmed, and revenue from the sale of products may be lost or delayed. If orders for our products are cancelled, expected revenues would not be realized. In addition, if the price charged by our contract manufacturers increases we will be required to increase our prices, which could harm our competitiveness. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2005, one of our contract manufacturers experienced temporary manufacturing delays due to unexpected manufacturing process problems, which caused delays in delivery of our products making it difficult for us to satisfy our customer demand. If we have to qualify a new contract manufacturer or foundry for any of our products, we may experience delays that result in lost revenues and damaged customer relationships. None of our products are fabricated by more than one supplier. Additionally, our products require manufacturing with state-of-the-art fabrication equipment and techniques. Because the lead-time needed to establish a relationship with a new contract manufacturer is at least nine months, and the estimated time for us to adapt a product’s design to a particular contract manufacturer’s process is at least four months, there is no readily available alternative supply source for any specific product. This could cause significant delays in shipping products, which may result in lost revenues and damaged customer relationships. We are dependent on our foundries to implement complex semiconductor technologies, which could adversely affect our operations if those technologies are unavailable, delayed or inefficiently implemented. In order to increase performance and functionality and reduce the size of our products, we are continuously developing new products using advanced technologies that further miniaturize 28 Table of Contents semiconductors. However, we are dependent on our foundries to develop and provide access to the advanced processes that enable such miniaturization. We cannot be certain that future advanced manufacturing processes will be implemented without difficulties, delays or increased expenses. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if advanced manufacturing processes are unavailable to us, substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. Manufacturers of our semiconductor products periodically discontinue manufacturing processes, which could make our products unavailable from our current suppliers. Semiconductor manufacturing technologies change rapidly and manufacturers typically discontinue older manufacturing processes in favor of newer ones. Once a manufacturer makes the decision to retire a manufacturing process, notice is generally given to its customers. Customers will then either retire the affected part or develop a new version of the part that can be manufactured on the newer process. In the event that a manufacturing process is discontinued, our products could become unavailable from our current suppliers. Additionally, migrating to a new, more advanced process requires significant expenditures for research and development. For example, we discontinued an image processor product that was produced by one of our third-party foundries in the third quarter of 2006. End of life orders were not sufficient to cover the production requirements for our customers. Because the time required to restart the production line requires a certain amount of lead time, we are currently in a backlog position for that particular product. We expect to begin reshipping this product once again in the first quarter of 2007 and expect to have the backlog fulfilled by the end of the second quarter of 2007. A portion of our products use embedded DRAM technology and the required manufacturing processes will only be available for a limited time. We also utilize 0.18um, 0.15um and 0.13um standard logic processes, which may only be available for the next five to seven years. We have commitments from our suppliers to notify us in the event a manufacturing process is to be discontinued in order to assist us with product transitions. We use a customer owned tooling, or COT, process for manufacturing many of our products which exposes us to the possibility of poor yields and unacceptably high product costs. We are building many of our products on a customer owned tooling basis, also known in the semiconductor industry as COT, where we directly contract the manufacture of wafers and assume the responsibility for the assembly and testing of our products. As a result, we are subject to increased risks arising from wafer manufacturing yields and risks associated with coordination of the manufacturing, assembly and testing process. Poor product yields would result in higher product costs, which could make our products uncompetitive if we increased our prices or result in low gross profit margins if we did not increase our prices. Shortages of materials used in the manufacturing of our products may increase our costs or limit our revenues and impair our ability to ship our products on time. From time to time, shortages of materials that are used in our products may occur. In particular, we may experience shortages of semiconductor wafers and packages. If material shortages occur, we may incur additional costs or be unable to ship our products to our customers in a timely fashion, both of which could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Shortages of other key components for our customers’ products could delay our ability to sell our products. Shortages of components and other materials that are critical to the design and manufacture of our customers’ products could limit our sales. These components include LCD panels and other display components, analog-to-digital converters, digital receivers and video decoders. Our future success depends upon the continued services of key personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace and the loss of one or more of these employees could seriously harm our business by delaying product development. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers, key hardware and software engineers, and sales, marketing and support personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of one or more of these employees could seriously harm our business. In addition, because of the highly technical nature of our business, the loss of key engineering personnel could delay product introductions and significantly impair our ability to successfully create future products. We believe our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified hardware and software engineers, and sales, marketing, finance and managerial personnel. Competition for talented personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our key personnel or identify, attract or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Currently, this risk has increased as the Company goes through restructuring efforts to consolidate several of its North American operating sites and transition key processes and technical expertise to its Shanghai, China design center. For example, in the last six months we have been or are in the process of replacing certain officers of the Company, i.e. the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Technology Officer, as we change the strategic direction of the Company and consolidate into a smaller number of operating sites. In addition during 2006, we experienced difficulties in hiring and retaining qualified engineers in our Shanghai design center. If we do not succeed in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications, our product development efforts, revenues and business could be seriously harmed. Decreased effectiveness of share-based payment awards could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees, officers and directors. We have historically used stock options and other forms of share-based payment awards as key components of our total compensation program in order to retain employees and directors and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. In accordance with SFAS 123R, we began recording charges to earnings for share-based payments in the first quarter of 2006. As a result, we have and will continue to incur increased compensation costs associated with our share-based programs making it more expensive for us to grant share-based payment awards to employees, officers and directors in the future. We continuously review our equity compensation strategy in light of current regulatory and competitive environments and consider changes to the program as appropriate. In addition, to the extent that SFAS 123R makes it more expensive to grant stock options or to continue to have an ESPP, we may decide to incur cash compensation costs in the future. Actions that we take to reduce stock-based compensation expense that might be more aggressive than actions implemented by our competitors, could make it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, which could adversely affect our competitive position as well as our business and results of operations. As a result of reviewing our equity compensation strategy, in 2006 we reduced the total number of options granted to employees and the number of employees who receive share-based payment awards. Additionally, in October 2006, our shareholders approved a stock option exchange program whereby 30 Table of Contents eligible employees could elect to exchange eligible outstanding options for new options at the then current market price of our common stock and at a rate of 4-to-1. Effective December 4, 2006, 184 employees surrendered 1,739,920 eligible options in exchange for 434,980 new stock options. The new options have an exercise price of $2.49 per share, have a 7-year term and vest over 18 months. While the goal of this program was to aid in the retention of key employees, it is unknown what effect, if any, it will have on our ability to retain key employees. Members of our Board of Directors and our five most highly compensated executive officers, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, were not eligible to participate in the stock option exchange program. The fact that these individuals could not participate in this program may make it difficult to retain them, since a majority of their outstanding stock options have exercise prices greater than the current fair market value of our common stock. Additionally in February 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has decided to replace future stock option grants to executives in its entirety with the granting of restricted shares, as allowed under the Company’s 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, on a 4-to-1 basis. Accordingly, we may have a more difficult time retaining key executives as a result of lower incentive-based compensation pay designed to retain them. A significant amount of our revenue comes from a limited number of customers and distributors. Any decrease in revenues from, or loss of, any of these customers or distributors could significantly reduce our total revenues. We are, and will continue to be, dependent on a limited number of distributors and customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. Sales to distributors represented 52%, 46% and 69% of total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Sales to Tokyo Electron Device, or TED, our Japanese distributor, represented 26%, 22% and 31% for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Revenue attributable to our top five end customers represented 39%, 34% and 33% of total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As a result of these distributor and end customer concentrations, any one of the following factors could significantly impact our revenues: • a significant reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our distributors, branded manufacturers or integrators; or • a decision by one or more significant end customers to select products manufactured by a competitor, or its own internally developed semiconductor, for inclusion in future product generations. The display manufacturing market is highly concentrated among relatively few large manufacturers. We expect our operating results to continue to depend on revenues from a relatively small number of customers. The concentration of our accounts receivable with a limited number of customers exposes us to increased credit risk and could harm our operating results and cash flows. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had four and three customers, respectively, that each represented 10% or more of accounts receivable. The failure of any of these customers to pay these balances or any other customer to pay their outstanding balance would result in an operating expense and reduce our cash flows. 31 Table of Contents International sales account for almost all of our revenue, and if we do not successfully address the risks associated with our international operations, our revenue could decrease. Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 96%, 96% and 99% of total revenue in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We anticipate that sales outside the U.S. will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in future periods. In addition, customers who incorporate our products into their products sell a substantial portion outside of the U.S., and all of our products are manufactured outside of the U.S. We are, therefore, subject to many international risks, including, but not limited to: • increased difficulties in managing international distributors and manufacturers of our products and components due to varying time zones, languages and business customs; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations such as the devaluation in the currencies of Japan, People’s Republic of China (“PRC”), Taiwan or Korea that could result in an increase in our operating expenses and cost of procuring our semiconductors; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • difficulties regarding timing and availability of export and import licenses, which have limited our ability to freely move demonstration equipment and samples in and out of Asia; • political and economic instability, particularly in the PRC, Japan, Taiwan, or Korea; • reduced or limited protection of our intellectual property, significant amounts of which are contained in software, which is more prone to design piracy; • increased transaction costs related to sales transactions conducted outside of the U.S., such as charges to secure letters of credit for foreign receivables; • increased risk of internal control weaknesses for key processes transferred to our Asian operations; • difficulties in maintaining sales representatives outside of the U.S. that are knowledgeable about our industry and products; • changes in the regulatory environment in the PRC, Japan, Taiwan, Korea or Turkey that may significantly impact purchases of our products by our customers; • outbreaks of SARS, bird flu or other pandemics in the PRC or other parts of Asia; and • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. Our growing presence and investment within the Peoples Republic of China subjects us to risks of economic and political instability in the area, which could adversely impact our results of operations. A substantial and potentially increasing portion of our products are manufactured by foundries located in the PRC and a large number of our customers are geographically concentrated in the PRC. In addition, approximately 60% of our employees are located in this area and we have an investment of $10,000 in SMIC, located in Shanghai, China. Disruptions from natural disasters, health epidemics (including new outbreaks of SARS or bird flu) and political, social and economic instability may affect the region, and would have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, the economy of the PRC differs from the economies of many countries in respects such as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, self-sufficiency, rate of inflation and balance of payments position, among others. In the past, the economy of the PRC has been primarily a planned economy subject to state plans. Since the entry of the PRC into the World Trade Organization in 2002, the PRC government has been reforming its economic and political systems. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social change. We cannot be assured that the PRC’s policies for economic reforms will be consistent or effective. Our results of operations and financial position may be harmed by changes in the PRC’s political, economic or social conditions. 32 Table of Contents The concentration of our manufacturers and customers in the same geographic region increases our risk that a natural disaster, labor strike or political unrest could disrupt our operations. Most of our current manufacturers and customers are located in the PRC, Japan, Korea or Taiwan. The risk of earthquakes in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines in the area. Common consequences of earthquakes include power outages and disruption and/or impairment of production capacity. Earthquakes, fire, flooding, power outages and other natural disasters in the Pacific Rim region, or political unrest, labor strikes or work stoppages in countries where our manufacturers and customers are located likely would result in the disruption of our manufacturers’ and customers’ operations. Any disruption resulting from extraordinary events could cause significant delays in shipments of our products until we are able to shift our manufacturing from the affected contractor to another third-party vendor. There can be no assurance that alternative capacity could be obtained on favorable terms, if at all. In recent years, various federal, state, and international governments have enacted laws and regulations governing the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain materials used in the manufacturing of electrical and electronic components. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations and we may incur additional capital expenditures and asset impairments to ensure that our products and our vendor’s products are in compliance with these regulations. In addition, we would be subject to significant penalties for failure to comply with these laws and regulations. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could require us to incur substantial expenses which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. For example, the European Parliament has finalized the Restriction on Use of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS Directive, which restricts the sale of new electrical and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous substances, including lead. The European Parliament has also recently finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or WEEE Directive, which makes producers of electrical and electronic equipment financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. We have worked and continue to work internally, with our suppliers and with our customers to ensure that products we put on the market after July 1, 2006 are compliant with the RoHS and WEEE Directives. Failure to comply with such legislation could result in our customers refusing to purchase our products and subject us to significant monetary penalties in connection with a violation, both of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over time, imposing even greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of our inability to obtain permits, human error, equipment failure or other causes. In addition, as a result of migrating our products to be in compliance with these new laws we had to reserve for and scrap excess leaded part inventory of approximately $3,760 in 2006. Risks Related to Our Industry Failure of consumer demand for advanced displays and other digital display technologies to increase would impede our growth and adversely affect our business. Our product development strategies anticipate that consumer demand for advanced televisions, multimedia projectors, LCD panels, and other emerging display technologies will increase in the future. The success of our products is dependent on increased demand for these display technologies. The 33 Table of Contents potential size of the market for products incorporating these display technologies and the timing of its development are uncertain and will depend upon a number of factors, all of which are beyond our control. In order for the market in which we participate to grow, advanced display products must be widely available and affordable to consumers. In the past, the supply of advanced display products has been cyclical. We expect this pattern to continue. Undercapacity in the advanced display market may limit our ability to increase our revenues because our customers may limit their purchases of our products if they cannot obtain sufficient supplies of LCD panels or other advanced display components. In addition, advanced display prices may remain high because of limited supply, and consumer demand may not grow. If products incorporating our semiconductors are not compatible with computer display protocols, video standards and other devices, the market for our products will be reduced and our business prospects could be significantly limited. Our products are incorporated into our customers’ products, which have different parts and specifications and utilize multiple protocols that allow them to be compatible with specific computers, video standards and other devices. If our customers’ products are not compatible with these protocols and standards, consumers will return these products, or consumers will not purchase these products, and the markets for our customers’ products could be significantly reduced. As a result, a portion of our market would be eliminated, and our business would be harmed. Intense competition in our markets may reduce sales of our products, reduce our market share, decrease our gross profit and result in large losses. Rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, compressed product life cycles and declining average selling prices are characteristics of our market and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As the overall price of advanced flat panel displays continues to fall, we may be required to offer our products to manufacturers at discounted prices due to increased price competition. At the same time, new alternative technologies and industry standards may emerge that directly compete with technologies we offer. We may be required to increase our investment in research and development at the same time that product prices are falling. In addition, even after making this investment, we cannot assure you that our technologies will be superior to those of our competitors or that our products will achieve market acceptance, whether for performance or price reasons. Failure to effectively respond to these trends could reduce the demand for our products. We compete with specialized and diversified electronics and semiconductor companies that offer advanced display, digital TV and IPTV semiconductor products. Some of these include ATI, Broadcom, Genesis Microchip, I-Chips, ITE, JEPICO Corp., NXP Semiconductor, Macronix, Mediatek, Media Reality Technologies, Micronas, MStar Semiconductor, Inc., Realtek, Renesas Technology, Sigma Designs, Silicon Image, Silicon Optix, STMicroelectronics, Sunplus Technology, Techwell, Topro, Trident, Trumpion, Weltrend, Zoran and other companies. Potential competitors may include diversified semiconductor manufacturers and the semiconductor divisions or affiliates of some of our customers, including Intel, LG Electronics, Matsushita Electric Industrial, Mitsubishi, National Semiconductor, NEC, nVidia, Samsung Electronics, Sanyo Electric Company, Sharp Corporation, Sony Corporation, Texas Instruments and Toshiba Corporation. In addition, start-up companies may seek to compete in our markets. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources to support development and marketing efforts. Some of our competitors may operate their own fabrication facilities. These competitors may be able to react more quickly and devote more resources to efforts that compete directly with our own. In the future, our current or potential customers may also develop their own proprietary technologies and become our competitors. Our competitors may develop advanced technologies enabling them to offer more cost-effective and higher quality semiconductors to our customers than those offered by us. Increased competition could harm our business, financial condition 34 Table of Contents and results of operations by, for example, increasing pressure on our profit margin or causing us to lose sales opportunities. We cannot assure you that we can compete successfully against current or potential competitors. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may lead to significant variances in the demand for our products and could harm our operations. In the past, the semiconductor industry has been characterized by significant downturns and wide fluctuations in supply and demand. Also, during this time, the industry has experienced significant fluctuations in anticipation of changes in general economic conditions, including economic conditions in Asia and North America. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has led to significant variances in product demand and production capacity. We may experience periodic fluctuations in our future financial results because of changes in industry-wide conditions. Other Risks The anti-takeover provisions of Oregon law and in our articles of incorporation could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock by preventing a sale or takeover of us at a price or prices favorable to the holders of our common stock. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Oregon law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of us, making a merger or acquisition of us less desirable to a potential acquirer or preventing a change in our management, even if the shareholders consider the merger or acquisition favorable or if doing so would benefit our shareholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The following are examples of such provisions in our articles of incorporation or bylaws: • our board of directors is authorized, without prior shareholder approval, to change the size of the board. Our articles of incorporation provide that if the board is increased to eight or more members, the board will be divided into three classes serving staggered terms, which would make it more difficult for a group of shareholders to quickly change the composition of our board; • our board of directors is authorized, without prior shareholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us or change our control, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock; • members of our board of directors can only be removed for cause; • the board of directors may alter our bylaws without obtaining shareholder approval; and • shareholders are required to provide advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon at a shareholder meeting. Our principal shareholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may make it more difficult to sell our shares at a premium to take over candidates. Our executive officers, directors and other principal shareholders, in the aggregate, beneficially own 15,438,929 shares or approximately 32% of our outstanding common stock and exchangeable shares as of February 28, 2007. These shareholders currently have, and will continue to have, significant influence with respect to the election of our directors and approval or disapproval of our significant corporate actions. This influence over our affairs might be adverse to the interest of our other shareholders. In addition, the voting power of these shareholders could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our business or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control 35 Table of Contents of us, which could prevent our other shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their common stock. The price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate substantially. Investors may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at or above the price they paid due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • actual reduction in our operating results due solely to the adoption of SFAS 123R, which requires, among other things, the expensing of stock options which began January 1, 2006; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations, design wins, contracts, standards or acquisitions; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • announcements of future expectations by our customers; • changes in market valuations of other technology companies; and • inconsistent trading volume levels of our common stock. In particular, the stock prices of technology companies similar to us have been highly volatile. Market fluctuations as well as general economic, political and market conditions, including recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Therefore, the price of our common stock may decline, and the value of your investment may be reduced regardless of our performance. We may be unable to meet our future capital requirements, which would limit our ability to grow. We believe our current cash and marketable security balances will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the next twelve months. However, we may need, or could elect to seek, additional funding prior to that time. To the extent that currently available funds are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or our shareholders. Furthermore, if we issue equity securities, our shareholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. For example, as of December 31, 2006 we have $140,000 of unsecured convertible bonds outstanding that have a put date of May 15, 2011 and $134,584 million in cash and marketable securities. Accordingly, we are in a net cash deficit position as of year end. While the Company is implementing restructuring plans designed to improve the financial performance of the Company, there can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future to refinance or service the potential put option on the convertible bonds. Continued compliance with new regulatory and accounting requirements will be challenging and require significant resources. We are spending a significant amount of management time and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, 36 Table of Contents including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting by our independent registered public accounting firm. The process of documenting and testing our controls over financial reporting has required that we hire additional personnel and outside services and has resulted in additional accounting and legal expenses. While we invested significant time and money in our effort to evaluate and test our internal control over financial reporting, a material weakness was identified in our internal control over financial reporting in 2004. In addition, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of internal controls and procedures, including cost limitations, the possibility of human error, judgments and assumptions regarding the likelihood of future events, and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives. As part of our restructuring efforts to reduce operating expenses and to support migrating engineering design capability to Asia, in 2006 and 2007 we are transitioning key accounting, finance and information technology infrastructure and technical expertise to our Shanghai site which may raise the risk of weakness in our internal control environment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 