ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors should be considered carefully when evaluating our business. Failure to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified IT professionals could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s business of delivering professional IT services is labor intensive, and, accordingly, the Company’s success depends upon the Company’s ability to attract, develop, motivate, retain and effectively utilize highly-skilled IT professionals. The Company believes that there is a growing shortage of, and significant competition for, IT professionals who possess the technical skills and experience necessary to deliver the Company’s services, both in the United States and in India, and that such IT professionals are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. The Company believes that, as a result of these factors, the Company operates within an industry that experiences a significant rate of annual turnover of IT personnel. The Company’s business plans are based on hiring and training a significant number of additional IT professionals each year to meet anticipated turnover and increased staffing needs. The Company’s ability to maintain and renew existing engagements and to obtain new business depends, in large part, on the Company’s ability to hire and retain qualified IT professionals. The Company performs a portion of the Company’s employee recruitment for U.S. positions in foreign countries, particularly India. Any perception among the Company’s current or potential employees or foreign IT professionals that the Company’s ability to assist them in obtaining permanent residency status in the United States has been diminished, could result in increased recruiting and personnel costs or lead to significant employee attrition or both. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, attrition was 14%, 13% and 14%, respectively. For the same periods, the number of net hires was 3,345, 2,271 and 1,566, respectively. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to recruit and train a sufficient number of qualified IT professionals or that the Company will be successful in retaining current or future employees. Increased hiring by technology companies, particularly in India, and increasing worldwide competition for skilled technology professionals may lead to a shortage in the availability of qualified personnel in the markets in which the Company operates and hires. Failure to hire and train or retain qualified IT professionals in sufficient numbers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Government regulation of immigration could impact the Company’s ability to bring a sufficient number of IT professionals to the United States or other jurisdictions. The Company recruits IT professionals on a global basis and, therefore, must comply with the immigration laws of the countries in which the Company operates, particularly the United States. As of December 31, 2007, 747 IT professionals, representing approximately 46% of the Company’s U.S. workforce and 6% of the Company’s worldwide workforce worked under H-1B visas (permitting temporary residence while employed in the United States) and another 396 IT professionals, representing 24% of the Company’s U.S. workforce and 3% of the Company’s worldwide workforce worked under L-1 visas (permitting inter-company transfers of employees that have been employed with a foreign subsidiary for at least six months). United States federal law limits the number of new H-1B visas to be approved in any fiscal year. Currently, the total number of H-1B visas permitted is 65,000 per U.S. government fiscal year. In years in which this limit is reached, the Company may be unable to obtain enough H-1B visas to bring a sufficient number of foreign employees to the United States. If the Company were unable to obtain sufficient H-1B employees, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, Congress and administrative agencies have periodically expressed concerns over the levels of legal immigration into the United States. These concerns have in the past resulted and may in the future result in proposed legislation, rules and regulations aimed at reducing the number of work visas, including L-1 and H-1B visas that may be issued. The Company is also subject to various immigration and work permit restrictions in other jurisdictions where the Company operates or plans to operate, including the European community. These restrictions restrain the 19 Table of Contents Company’s ability to increase the number of skilled professionals in certain regions and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s global strategy. The impact of these regulations, including any changes to immigration and work permit regulations in particular jurisdictions, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s business could be materially adversely affected if one of the Company’s significant clients terminates its engagement of us or if there is a downturn in one of the industries the Company serves. The Company has in the past derived, and believes will continue to derive, a significant portion of its revenues from a limited number of large, corporate clients. The Company’s ten largest clients generated approximately 73%, 70%, and 65% of the Company’s total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company’s largest client for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, was American Express, which generated approximately 19%, 18% and 16% of the Company’s total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company expects to continue to derive a significant portion of the Company’s revenues from American Express. Failure to meet a client’s expectations could result in cancellation or non-renewal of the Company’s engagement and could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely affect its ability to attract new business. Many of the Company’s contracts, including all of the Company’s contracts with its ten largest clients, are terminable by the client with limited notice to the company and without compensation beyond payment for the professional services rendered through the date of termination. An unanticipated termination of a significant engagement, including in connection with the acquisition of a significant client, could result in the loss of substantial anticipated revenues and could require the Company to either maintain or terminate a significant number of unassigned IT professionals. The loss of any significant client or engagement could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company also has derived, and expects to continue to derive, a significant portion of its revenues from clients in certain industries, including the financial services, insurance and healthcare industries. Clients in the financial services industry generated approximately 48%, 43% and 40% of the Company’s revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A downturn in the financial services industry or other industries from which the Company derive significant revenues could result in less revenue from current and potential clients in such industry and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may be affected by political and regulatory conditions, including wage increases, in India. A significant element of the Company’s business strategy is to continue to develop and expand offshore Global Development Centers in India. Changes in the political or regulatory climate of India, including the following, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition: • Political climate – In the past, India has experienced significant inflation and shortages of foreign currency and has been subject to civil unrest. No assurance can be given that the Company will not be adversely affected by changes in inflation, exchange rate fluctuations, currency controls, interest rates, tax provisions, social stability or other political, economic or diplomatic developments in or affecting India. • Changes in liberalization policies of the government – The Indian government is significantly involved in, and exerts significant influence over, its economy. In the recent past, the Indian government has provided significant tax incentives and relaxed certain regulatory restrictions in order to encourage foreign investment in certain sectors of the economy, including the technology industry. Certain of these benefits directly benefited us including, among others, tax holidays, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment. There can be no assurance that these benefits will be continued or that other similar benefits will be provided in future periods. 20 Table of Contents Wage pressures in India may reduce the Company’s profit margins. Wage pressures in India may prevent us from sustaining the Company’s competitive advantage and may reduce the Company’s profit margins. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 79% of the Company’s billable workforce was in India, and the Company anticipates that this percentage will increase over time. Wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of the Company’s competitive strengths. However, wage increases in India may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect the Company’s profit margins. Wages in India are increasing at a faster rate than in the United States, which could result in increased costs for technology professionals, particularly project managers and other mid-level professionals. The Company may need to increase the levels of the Company’s employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to remain competitive with other employers, or seek to recruit in other low labor cost jurisdictions to keep the Company’s wage costs low. For example, the Company recently established a long-term retention program for its senior executives and employees. In addition, under SFAS No. 123(R), the Company is now required to expense stock-based awards to employees. Compensation increases may result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s ability to repatriate earnings from its foreign operations is limited by tax laws. The Company treats earnings from its operations in India and other foreign countries as permanently invested outside the United States. If the Company repatriates any of such earnings, the Company will incur a dividend distribution tax for distribution from India, currently 17.00% under Indian tax law, and be required to pay United States corporate income taxes on such earnings. As of December 31, 2007, the estimated dividend distribution taxes and United States corporate taxes that would be due upon repatriation of accumulated earnings from the Company’s operations in India was approximately $63.5 million. If the Company decided to repatriate all undistributed repatriable earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2007, the Company would have accrued taxes of approximately $74.1 million. The IT services and KPO industry are intensely competitive, and the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The IT services and KPO industry are intensely competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. The Company competes with a variety of other companies, depending on the services offered. In Applications Outsourcing and e-Business services, the Company primarily competes with domestic firms such as Accenture, Cognizant, EDS, IBM Global Services and Keane and with an increasing number of India-based companies including Infosys Technologies, Tata Consultancy Services and Wipro Technologies. The Company is also seeing increased competition from non-Indian sources such as China, Eastern Europe and the Philippines. In KPO, the Company primarily competes with other offshore KPO vendors including HCL, Wipro Technologies and WNS. In professional IT staffing engagements, the Company’s primary competitors include participants from a variety of market segments, including systems consulting and implementation firms, applications software development and maintenance firms, service groups of computer equipment companies and temporary staffing firms. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources and greater name recognition than it does. As a result, they may be able to compete more aggressively on pricing, respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements, or devote greater resources to the development and promotion of IT services and KPO than the Company does. India-based companies also present significant price competition due to their competitive cost structures and tax advantages. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into the Company’s markets and the Company has faced, and expects to continue to face, additional competition from new IT service and KPO providers. Further, there is a risk that the Company’s clients may elect to increase their internal resources to satisfy their IT services needs as opposed to relying on a third-party vendor like us. The IT services industry is also undergoing consolidation, which may result in increased competition in the Company’s target markets. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of 21 Table of Contents market share. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors or that competitive pressures will not materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may not be able to successfully manage the rapid growth of the Company’s business. The Company has recently experienced a period of rapid growth in revenues that places significant demands on the Company’s managerial, administrative and operational resources. Additionally, the longer-term transition in the Company’s delivery mix from onsite to offshore staffing has also placed additional operational and structural demands on us. The Company’s future growth depends on recruiting, hiring and training IT professionals, increasing the Company’s international operations, expanding its U.S. and offshore capabilities, adding effective sales and management staff and adding service offerings. Effective management of these and other growth initiatives will require that the Company continue to improve its infrastructure, execution standards and ability to expand services. Failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on the quality of the Company’s services and engagements, the Company’s ability to attract and retain IT professionals, the Company’s prospects and the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s Applications Outsourcing services require increased attention from senior management and the Company’s e-Business and KPO practices require increased sales and marketing. In recent years, the Company has realigned existing personnel and resources, and has invested incrementally in the development of the Company’s Applications Outsourcing business, with increased focus on outsourcing services for ongoing applications management, development and maintenance. Applications Outsourcing services generally require a longer sales cycle (up to twelve months) and generally require approval by more senior levels of management within the client’s organization, as compared with traditional IT staffing services. Pursuing such sales requires significant investment of time, including by the Company’s senior management, and may not result in additional business. The Company has also invested in the development of the Company’s e-Business and KPO practices. Many e-Business engagements are short in duration (three to six months), requiring increased sales and marketing. There can be no assurance that the Company’s increased focus on the Company’s Applications Outsourcing, e-Business and KPO practices will be successful, and any failure of such strategy could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s fixed-price engagements may commit us to unfavorable terms. The Company undertakes development and maintenance engagements, which are billed on a fixed-price basis, in addition to the engagements billed on time-and-material basis. Fixed-price revenues from development and maintenance activity represented approximately 38%, 42% and 50% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company’s strategy includes increasing the percentage of the Company’s revenues derived from fixed-price engagements. Any failure to estimate accurately the resources and time required to complete a fixed-price engagement on time and to the required quality levels or any unexpected increase in the cost to us of IT professionals, office space or materials could expose us to risks associated with cost overruns and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may be liable to its clients for disclosure of confidential information or if the Company does not fulfill its obligations under its engagements. The Company may be liable to the Company’s clients for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information or system failures. The Company is often required to collect and store sensitive or confidential client data. Many of the Company’s client agreements do not limit its potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. If any person, including any of the Company’s employees, penetrates the Company’s network security or 22 Table of Contents misappropriates sensitive data, the Company could be subject to significant liability from its clients or from their customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client data, whether through breach of the Company’s computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, could also damage the Company’s reputation and cause it to lose existing and potential clients. Many of the Company’s engagements involve IT services that are critical to the operations of the Company’s clients’ businesses. Any failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations in the performance of services could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of the Company’s responsibility for such failure. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability set forth in the Company’s service contracts will be enforceable in all instances or would otherwise protect us from liability for damages. In addition, the costs of defending against any such claims, even if successful, could be significant. There can be no assurance that the Company’s insurance coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms, will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims or defense costs, or that the Company’s insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that are uninsured, exceed available insurance coverage or result in changes to the Company’s insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company depends on the efforts and ability of key personnel, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer. The Company’s success is highly dependent on the efforts and abilities of Bharat Desai, the Company’s co-founder, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer, and other key personnel. The diminution or loss of the services of Mr. Desai or other key personnel for any reason could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. The Company does not maintain key man life insurance on Mr. Desai or any other key personnel. The Company’s business could be materially adversely affected if the Company does not protect its intellectual property or if the Company’s services are found to infringe on the intellectual property of others. The Company’s success depends in part on certain methodologies, practices, tools and technical expertise the Company utilizes in designing, developing, implementing and maintaining applications and other proprietary intellectual property rights. In order to protect the Company’s rights in these various intellectual properties, the Company relies upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements as well as trade secret, copyright and trademark laws. The Company also generally enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, clients and potential clients and limit access to and distribution of the Company’s proprietary information. The Company presently holds no patents or registered copyrights. The Company holds several trademarks or service marks, including: Syntel®, registered in the United States and Germany; Consider IT Done®, registered in the United States and Germany; Identeontm; IntelliSourcing®; IntelliTransfer®; SkillBay®; TeamSourcing®; Total ERP Applications Methodology (TEAM)®; Latest-to-Legacy®; New2USA.com®; and Digital Blueprinting-Build-Optimize®. The Company also has submitted United States federal and foreign trademark applications for the names of additional service offerings. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in maintaining or obtaining trademarks for these trade names. India is a member of the Berne Convention, an international intellectual property treaty, and has agreed to recognize protections on intellectual property rights conferred under the laws of foreign countries, including the laws of the United States. There can be no assurance that the laws, rules, regulations and treaties in effect in the United States and India and the contractual and other protective measures the Company takes are adequate to protect it from misappropriation or unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property, or that such laws will not change. In particular, the laws of India could change in ways that may prevent or restrict the transfer of software components, libraries and 23 Table of Contents toolsets from India to the United States. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce the Company’s rights, or that any such steps will be successful. Infringement by others of the Company’s intellectual property, including the costs of enforcing the Company’s intellectual property rights, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Although the Company believes that its intellectual property does not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that such a claim will not be asserted against us in the future or that any such claim, if asserted, would not be successful. The costs of defending any such claims could be significant, and any successful claim could require the Company to modify, discontinue or change the name of any of its services. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Future legislation in the United States and abroad could significantly impact the ability of the Company’s clients to utilize the Company’s services. The issue of companies outsourcing services abroad has become a topic of political discussion in the United States and other countries. Measures aimed at limiting or restricting outsourcing have been enacted in a few states, and there is currently legislation pending in several states and at the federal level. The measures that have been enacted to date have not significantly adversely affected the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that pending or future legislation that would significantly adversely affect the Company’s business will not be enacted. If enacted, such measures are likely to fall within two categories: (1) a broadening of restrictions on outsourcing by government agencies and on government contracts with firms that outsource services directly or indirectly, and/or (2) measures that impact private industry, such as tax disincentives, restrictions on the transfer or maintenance of certain information abroad and/or intellectual property transfer restrictions. In the event that any such measures are enacted, or if the prospect of such measures being enacted increases, the ability of the Company’s clients to utilize its services could be restricted or become less economical and the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company’s margins may be adversely affected if demand for the Company’s services slows. If demand for the Company’s services slows, the Company’s utilization and billing rates for its technology professionals could be adversely affected, which may result in lower gross and operating profits. The Company’s future success depends on its ability to market new services, including end-to-end business solutions, to the Company’s existing and new clients. Over the past several years, the Company has been expanding the nature and scope of its engagements by extending the breadth of services the Company offers. The success of the Company’s service offerings depends, in part, upon continued demand for such services by the Company’s existing and new clients and the Company’s ability to meet this demand in a cost competitive and effective manner. In addition, the Company’s ability to effectively offer a wider breadth of end-to-end business solutions depends on its ability to attract existing or new clients to these service offerings. To obtain engagements for the Company’s end-to-end solutions, the Company also is more likely to compete with large, well-established international consulting firms as well as other India-based technology services companies, resulting in increased competition and marketing costs. The Company’s new service offerings may not effectively meet client needs, and the Company may be unable to attract existing and new clients to these service offerings. The increased breadth of the Company’s service offerings may also result in larger and more complex client projects, which will require that the Company establish closer relationships with its clients, and potentially with other technology service providers and vendors, and develop a more thorough understanding of the Company’s clients’ operations. The Company’s ability to establish these relationships will depend on a number of factors including the proficiency of the Company’s technology professionals and its management personnel and the willingness of the Company’s existing and potential clients 24 Table of Contents to provide it with information about their businesses. If the Company is not able to successfully market and provide the Company’s new and broader service offerings, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s business could be adversely affected if the Company does not anticipate and respond to technology advances in the Company’s and the Company’s clients’ industries. The Company’s business will suffer if the Company fails to anticipate and develop new services and enhance existing services in order to keep pace with rapid changes in technology and in the industries on which the Company focus. The technology services and KPO markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and frequent new product and service introductions. The Company’s future success will depend on the Company’s ability to anticipate these advances and develop new product and service offerings to meet the Company’s existing and potential clients’ needs. The Company may fail to anticipate or respond to these advances in a timely manner, or, if the Company does respond, the services or technologies the Company develops may not be successful in the marketplace. Further, products, services or technologies that are developed by the Company’s competitors may render the Company’s services non-competitive or obsolete. If the Company does not respond effectively to these changes, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The Company may be required to include benchmarking provisions in future engagements, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and profitability. As the size and duration of the Company’s client engagements increase, the Company’s current and future clients may require benchmarking provisions. Benchmarking provisions allow a client in certain circumstances to request that a benchmark study prepared by an agreed upon third-party comparing the Company’s pricing, performance and efficiency gains for delivered contract services to that of an agreed upon list of other service providers for comparable services. Based on the results of the benchmark study and depending on the reasons for any unfavorable variance, the Company could then be required to reduce the pricing for future services to be performed under the balance of the contract, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s revenues and profitability. The Company is subject to corporate governance and disclosure requirements that have resulted and likely will continue to result in increased costs and management attention. Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to the Company’s compliance policies and increases the Company’s costs of compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards include those relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Global Select Market rules. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. The Company’s efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, new laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, the Company’s board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer & Chief Information Security Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties. As a result, the Company may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm the Company’s business. If the Company fails to comply with new or changed laws or regulations and standards differ, the Company’s business and reputation may be harmed. 25 Table of Contents While the Company believes it currently has adequate internal control over financial reporting, the Company is required to assess its internal controls over financial reporting on an annual basis. Any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in the Company’s financial reporting and have an adverse effect on the Company’s stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the accompanying rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement it require us to include in the Company’s Form 10-K an annual report by the Company’s management regarding the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the Company’s fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting identified by management. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Standard No. 5 (Standard No. 5) provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. Management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and, particularly because Standard No. 5 is newly effective, some of the judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation and therefore the report may be uniquely difficult to prepare, and the Company’s independent auditors may not agree with management’s assessment. During this process, if the Company’s management identifies one or more material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that cannot be remediated in a timely manner, the Company will be unable to conclude such internal control is effective. While the Company currently believes its internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls in future periods is subject to the risk that the Company’s controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and, as a result, the degree of compliance of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. If the Company is unable to conclude that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2008 (or if the Company’s independent auditors are unable to attest that the Company’s management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls), the Company could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of its financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s stock price. The Company relies on global telecommunications infrastructure to maintain communication between its various locations and the Company’s clients’ sites. Disruptions in telecommunications, system failures, or virus attacks could harm the Company’s ability to execute the Company’s Global Delivery Model, which could result in client dissatisfaction and a reduction of the Company’s revenues. A significant element of the Company’s Global Delivery Model is to continue to leverage and expand the Company’s Global Development Centers. The Company’s Global Development Centers are linked with a redundant telecommunications network architecture that uses multiple service providers and various satellite and optical links with alternate routing. The Company may not be able to maintain active voice and data communications between its various Global Development Centers and between the Company’s Global Development Centers and the Company’s clients’ sites at all times due to disruptions in these networks, system failures or virus attacks. Any significant failure in the Company’s ability to communicate could result in a disruption in business, which could hinder the Company’s performance or its ability to complete projects on time. This, in turn, could lead to client dissatisfaction and a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with the Company’s investment in new facilities and physical infrastructure. The Company’s business model includes developing and operating Global Development Centers in order to support the Company’s Global Delivery Service. The Company has Global Development Centers located in 26 Table of Contents Mumbai, Pune and Chennai, India. In August 2006, the Company completed Phase I of the construction of a development and training campus in Pune, India, including an office building for 950 seats, a food court and hotel. Further, in February 2007 the Company completed 2 office buildings with more than 2,000 seats. However, the full completion of the development of the Pune facility is contingent on the Company’s funding the continuation of the construction and obtaining appropriate construction and other permits from the Indian government. The Company cannot make any assurances that the construction of the facility or any future facilities that the Company may develop, including any facilities on the land acquired by the Company that is in an Information Technology Park located in Chennai, India, will occur on a timely basis or that they will be completed. If the Company is unable to complete the construction of the Pune facility or future facilities, the Company’s business, results of operation and financial condition will be adversely affected. In addition, the Company is developing the Pune facility in expectation of increased growth in the Company’s business. If the Company’s business does not grow as expected, the Company may not be able to benefit from its investment in this or other facilities. The Company’s earnings are affected by application of SFAS No. 123(R). The Company began expensing stock options and other stock-based awards in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s FASB Statement No. 123 (revised 2004) “Share-Based Payment” (SFAS No. 123(R)) in fiscal 2006. SFAS No. 123(R) requires companies to measure and recognize compensation expense for all stock-based payments at fair value. Stock-based payments include stock option grants and other transactions under stock plans. The Company grants options to purchase common stock to some of its employees and directors under various plans at prices equal to the market value of the stock on the dates the options were granted. In addition, the Company has issued shares of incentive restricted stock to its non-employee directors and employees. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recorded $1.96 million of expense for equity-based compensation (including charges for restricted stock and dividend). The assumptions used in calculating and estimating future costs under SFAS No. 123(R) are highly subjective and changes in these assumptions could significantly affect the Company’s future earnings. Terrorist activity, war or natural disasters could make travel and communication more difficult and adversely affect the Company’s business. Terrorist activity, war or natural disasters could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist activities, other acts of violence or war, or natural disasters have the potential to have a direct impact on the Company’s clients. Such events may disrupt the Company’s ability to communicate between the Company’s various Global Development Centers and between the Company’s Global Development Centers and the Company’s clients’ sites, make travel more difficult, make it more difficult to obtain work visas for many of the Company’s technology professionals and effectively curtail the Company’s ability to deliver the Company’s services to the Company’s clients. Such obstacles to business may increase the Company’s expenses and materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, many of the Company’s clients visit several technology services firms prior to reaching a decision on vendor selection. Terrorist activity, war or natural disasters could make travel more difficult and delay, postpone or cancel decisions to use the Company’s services. The Company is subject to risks of fluctuation in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Indian rupee. The Company holds a significant amount of its cash in Indian rupees. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, other income, cost of services, gross margin and net income, which may in turn have a negative impact on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. The exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar has changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. The Company expects that a majority of the Company’s revenues will continue to be generated in U.S. dollars for the 27 Table of Contents foreseeable future and that a significant portion of the Company’s expenses, including personnel costs, as well as capital and operating expenditures, will continue to be denominated in Indian rupees. Consequently, the results of the Company’s operations are adversely affected as the Indian rupee appreciates against the U.S. dollar. Any future business combinations, acquisitions or mergers would expose us to risks, including that the Company may not be able to successfully integrate any acquired businesses. The Company has expanded, and may continue to expand, the Company’s operations through the acquisition of additional businesses. Financing of any future acquisition could require the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of equity (common or preferred) or a combination thereof. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate any acquired businesses without substantial expense, delays or other operational or financial risks and problems. Furthermore, acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel, unanticipated events or legal liabilities and amortization of acquired intangible assets. For example, in 2002, the Company incurred a charge in connection with a payment made to the former owners of a business acquired by the Company in 1999. In addition, any client satisfaction or performance problems within an acquired firm could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s reputation as a whole. There can be no assurance that any acquired businesses would achieve anticipated revenues and earnings. Any failure to manage the Company’s acquisition strategy successfully could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Variability of Quarterly Operating Results. The Company has experienced and expects to continue to experience fluctuations in revenues and operating results from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including: the timing, number and scope of customer engagements commenced and completed during the quarter; progress on fixed-price engagements; timing and cost associated with expansion of the Company’s facilities; changes in IT professional wage rates; the accuracy of estimates of resources and time frames required to complete pending assignments; the number of working days in a quarter; employee hiring, attrition and utilization rates; the mix of services performed on-site, off-site and offshore; termination of engagements; start-up expenses for new engagements; longer sales cycles for Applications Outsourcing engagements; customers’ budget cycles; and investment time for training. Because a significant percentage of the Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses are relatively fixed, variations in revenues may cause significant variations in operating results. It is possible that Company’s operating results could be below or above the expectations of market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of the Company’s common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. No assurance can be given that quarterly results will not fluctuate causing an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition at the time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 