Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this annual report, before investing in our ordinary shares. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating and net losses. Although we plan to begin implementing a new strategic plan, we expect to incur additional losses in 2012. We incurred operating and net losses in each of the last five fiscal years and there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitable operations in the future. In particular, as part of a multi-year strategic plan to realign activities and accelerate our future growth, or the Strategic Plan approved in early May 2012 by our board of directors and more fully described below, we intend to undertake significant rearrangement of our sales, marketing and product development activities. We expect that the increased expenses associated with implementing our Strategic Plan will result in operating and net losses in 2012, even if our revenues increase as planned. Even if our implementation of the Strategic Plan allows us to achieve profitability, we may not succeed in sustaining or increasing it on a quarterly or annual basis and we cannot assure that future net income will offset our cumulative losses, which, as of December 31, 2011, were $41.7 million. 7 Global economic conditions have materially impacted our business in the past and may do so again in the future. Our business and financial condition is affected by global economic conditions. Starting in late 2008 and lasting through much of 2009, a steep downturn in the global economy sparked by uncertainty in credit markets and deteriorating consumer confidence, reduced technology spending by many organizations. More recently, credit and sovereign debt issues have destabilized certain European economies as well and thereby increased global macroeconomic uncertainties. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions continues to pose a risk as customers may postpone or reduce spending in response to restraints on credit. Should the economic slowdown resume and/or companies in our target markets reduce capital expenditures, it may cause our customers to reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly, potentially resulting in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. To support our Strategic Plan, we will need to raise additional financing in 2012. If we are unsuccessful, we will not be able to carry out our strategy as planned. On March 31, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $0.8 million. Although we anticipate that our existing capital resources, including availability under the Convertible Loan, will be adequate to satisfy our working capital and capital expenditure requirements until at least April 2013, we will need to raise funds during 2012 to support the execution of our Strategic Plan. If we are unsuccessful in raising such financing on acceptable terms, we will not be able to carry out our plan and our operations and growth strategy will be materially adversely affected. In addition, if these funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities or conversion of loans into equity, the percentage ownership of existing shareholders could be significantly diluted. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control during 2011 over financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us. Our efforts to comply with the management assessment requirements of Section 404 have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a devotion of management time and attention to compliance activities, and we expect them to continue to require the commitment of significant resources. As disclosed in Item 15 of this annual report, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to our revenue recognition process. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2011. We have already implemented a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. In addition, our internal control over financial reporting has not and is not required to be audited by our independent registered public accounting firm. Our inability to assert that our internal controls are effective could cause our investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also result in investigation and/or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. 8 We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, including the size, timing and shipment of orders; customer budget cycles and budgetary freezes; the timing of introductions of new products or product upgrades (both ours and those of our competitors); customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products or product upgrades; the mix of product sales; software and hardware development problems; product quality problems; product pricing; our effective provision of customer support; and the relatively low level of general business activity during the summer months in the European market. In addition, because our customers typically request delivery within two to four weeks of order placement (which generally follows extensive sales efforts that take place over an extended period of time), a majority of our quarterly sales derive from orders placed in that quarter and, consequently, changes in the timing of expected large orders can significantly impact our operating results for that quarter. For the foregoing reasons, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that our operating results for any particular quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Also, in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, it is likely that the price of our ordinary shares would be materially adversely affected. Since our order backlog is limited, we have a limited ability to project our future sales. Since we have a limited order backlog, our revenues for any specific quarter are dependent primarily on orders received and delivered during that same quarter. A delay in the recognition of revenue, even from one customer, may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. We base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends, and our expense levels are relatively fixed, or require some time for adjustment. Because only a small portion of our expenses varies with our revenues, if revenue levels fall below our expectations, our earnings will decrease. We depend upon independent distributors, representatives and strategic alliance partners for a significant portion of our sales. Our sales strategy relies primarily upon sales through independent distributors, resellers/integrators, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and other strategic alliance partners with major cabling companies. While we are highly dependent upon acceptance of our products and solutions by such third parties and their active marketing and sales efforts relating to our products and solutions, most of our OEMs and distributors are not obligated to deal with us exclusively, and are not contractually subject to minimum purchase requirements. In addition, some of our distributors may sell competing products or solutions. As a result, our distributors may give higher priority to products or services of our competitors or their own products and solutions, thereby reducing their efforts to sell our products and services. There can be no assurance that such distributors, representatives or strategic alliance partners will act as effective sales agents for us, that they will remain our partners, or that, if we terminate or lose any of them, we will be successful in replacing them. Any such disruption in our distribution channels could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 9 Our carrier products generally have long sales cycles. This increases the cost of obtaining orders and reduces the predictability of our earnings. The sale of our carrier solutions to telephone companies, commonly referred to as telcos, is characterized by a lengthy sales cycle, sometimes years (as measured from the commencement of marketing efforts to the consummation of an actual transaction), and may involve significant expenditures that may not be offset by revenues. In the past, delays in the expected sale of carrier products have also caused significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, reducing the predictability of our earnings. To remain competitive, we must develop new products and enhancements to existing products on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our target markets are characterized by rapidly changing technology, changing customer requirements, relatively short product lifecycles, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. The dynamism that characterizes our target markets is both an opportunity and a challenge for RiT. However, changes in technologies, customer requirements and industry standards and new product introductions by our existing competitors or by new market entrants could reduce the markets for our products or require us to develop new products and we cannot guarantee that we will emerge as the market leaders. Therefore, our ability to correctly anticipate changes in technology and customer requirements and to secure timely access to information concerning the emergence of new industry standards, as well as our ability to develop, manufacture and market new and enhanced products successfully and on a timely basis, are significant factors in our ability to remain competitive. We are currently developing a number of new products and technologies. However, there can be no assurance that our products will be successful or profitable, or that we will not encounter technical or other difficulties that could delay the introduction of these or other new or enhanced products in the future. In addition, it often takes several months before the development and manufacturing costs of new products stabilize, which may adversely affect operating results during such period. If we are unable to introduce new or enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis and to gain market acceptance for such products, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We operate in exceedingly competitive markets. The markets for our products and solutions are very competitive, and we expect that they will become more competitive in the future. Increased direct and indirect competition could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, whether through pricing pressure, loss of market share and/or other factors. Many of our competitors are far larger, have substantially greater resources (including financial, technological, manufacturing and marketing and distribution capabilities) and are much more widely recognized than we are. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors as the market for our products and solutions evolves and the level of competition increases. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to differentiate our products and solutions from the products and solutions of our competitors or to develop or introduce successfully new products and solutions that are less costly or offer better performance than those of our competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. We plan to grow rapidly during the next several years, and the growth process will include many challenges that must be managed correctly. Our Strategic Plan calls for a significant rearrangement of our organization in the areas of sales, marketing, product development and logistics. All or a portion of the expenses associated with such expansion will be incurred prior to the generation of any associated revenues. Consequently, if we are unable to efficiently manage this expansion, or if we do not succeed in achieving the expected increase in our sales, then the higher expenses associated with such expansion could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 10 We are dependent, to some extent, on our suppliers. Certain components used in our products and solutions are presently available from, or supplied by, only one source, and certain other components are available only from limited sources. Although we do not have long-term supply contracts with some of our existing suppliers, we have generally been able to obtain supplies of components in a timely manner under acceptable terms, and we also working to establish dual suppliers for all products. However, there can be no assurance that delays in key component or product deliveries will not occur in the future due to shortages resulting from the limited number of suppliers, the financial condition or other difficulties of such suppliers. Any inability to obtain sufficient key components or to develop alternative sources for such components, if and as required in the future, could result in delays, interruptions or reductions in product shipments, which could have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships and, in turn, on our business and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified R&D, technical, sales and management personnel. Our future performance, including the successful implementation of our Strategic Plan, depends in large part on the continued service of our key R&D, technical, sales and management personnel and our ability to attract skilled personnel in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, training, assimilating or retaining, on a timely basis and at a reasonable cost, all the personnel that we may require, or that we will not encounter difficulties as we integrate new personnel into our operations. Our inability to integrate such personnel into our operations or to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks relating to proprietary rights and risks of infringement. We are dependent upon our proprietary technology and we rely upon a combination of patents, patent applications, contractual rights, trade secrets, copyrights, non-disclosure agreements and technical measures to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products, systems and technologies. In addition, we enter into nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees and with certain suppliers and customers with access to sensitive information. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or independent development or sale by others of our technology or of products or solutions with features based upon, or otherwise similar to, our own. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. We cannot be certain that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate or that our competition will not independently develop similar technology. In addition, although we believe that our technology has been independently developed and that none of our technology or intellectual property infringes on the rights of others, there can be no assurance that we do not and will not so infringe or that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future, resulting in a material adverse impact on our business. In the case of infringement, we would, under certain circumstances, be required to modify our products or intellectual property or obtain a license to permit their continued use. There can be no assurance that we would be able to do either in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms and conditions, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 11 If future litigation were to become necessary to protect trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary rights owned by us, to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others, or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others, such litigation could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our management's attention. Adverse determinations in any such litigation or proceeding also could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain of our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we will have the resources to defend or prosecute a proprietary rights infringement action. Our international sales may expose us to additional risks. We currently market our products and solutions in numerous countries and are subject to many risks associated with international sales, including limitations and disruptions resulting from the imposition of government controls, local taxes, national standardization and certification requirements, export license requirements, economic or political instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs, currency fluctuations and difficulties in managing international operations. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver our products, solutions and services on a competitive and timely basis, or to collect payments from customers in these countries and on our results of operations. For example, we are required to comply with European Union Directives with respect to environmental standards. There is no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties in connection with the sale of our products and solutions in the future or that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be subject to warranty claims from our customers. Our product warranties permit customers to return any products deemed to be defective for repair or replacement. It is our policy to grant a warranty for the hardware components of our products for periods ranging from 12 to 36 months. This policy does not apply to our cabling systems solutions, which, when installed by a certified cabling installer, are granted between 20-years to 25-years system warranties, depending on the relevant warranty. These warranty periods are customary in the structured cabling industry, but significantly longer than product warranties generally offered in other industries. We protect our exposure to potential material warranty claims through insurance coverage we believe to be appropriate. However, we cannot assure that such claims would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. Changes in exchange rates between currencies may negatively impact our costs. Most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars or dollar-linked. We collect a portion of our revenues in Europe in Euros. Most of our purchases of materials and components, and most of our marketing costs, are denominated in dollars or dollar-linked. However, a material portion of our expenses, including salaries and personnel expenses paid in Israel, are denominated in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. As a result, we are exposed to several risks, including that either the NIS or the Euro may increase in value relative to the dollar. If either of such events occurs, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel or Europe will increase and our dollar-measured operating results will be adversely affected. Changes in our senior management may cause uncertainty in, or be disruptive to, our business. During recent years, we have experienced significant changes in our senior management. In February 2012, Mr. Vadim Leidernam was appointed our new Chief Executive Officer, replacing Mr. Eran Ayzik who served as our Chief Executive Officer since August 2010. In addition, Mr. Moti Hania was appointed our Deputy CEO and Mr. Erez Ben Eshay was appointed our Chief Technology Officer. The difficulties inherent in transitioning the Company under the leadership of new management, particularly a new Chief Executive Officer, and assimilating new management personnel into our corporate culture, may be disruptive to our business, and, during the transition period, there may be uncertainty among investors, vendors, employees and others concerning our future direction and performance. 12 Risks Related to our Relationship with STINS COMAN STINS COMAN beneficially owns 78% of our ordinary shares and may therefore be able to control the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. As of April 27, 2012, STINS COMAN beneficially owned approximately 78% of our outstanding shares. Accordingly, STINS COMAN has, subject to special approvals required by Israeli law for transactions involving controlling shareholders, sufficient voting power to elect all of our directors (subject to the provisions of the Companies Law with regard to outside directors), control our management and approve or reject any merger or similar transaction. Mr. Sergey Anisimov, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, is the President of, and owns a majority interest in, STINS COMAN. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. It could also adversely affect our share price. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected by events relating to STINS COMAN that are unrelated to us. We may be affected by transactions with STINS COMAN. We are engaged and may in the future engage in transactions with STINS COMAN or its affiliates. In particular, STINS COMAN has been our non-exclusive distributor in the Commonwealth of Independent States market, or CIS market, for our enterprise products since 1994 and for our carrier products since the end of 2008. We believe that such transactions are beneficial to us and are, or will be, conducted upon terms that are no less favorable to us than would be available to us from unaffiliated third parties. However, you should be aware that STINS COMAN could, subject to compliance with provisions of Israeli law concerning related-party transactions, exercise its influence over our affairs in its own interest. Some members of our Board of Directors may have conflicts of interest with us. Mr. Sergey Anisimov, the Chairman of our board of directors (the “Board of Directors”), and Mr. Boris Grabnovsky, a member of our Board of Directors, are executive officers and directors of STINS COMAN. In addition, Mr. Anisimov owns a majority interest in STINS COMAN and Mr. Grabnovsky owns a minority interest in STINS COMAN. Accordingly, these individuals may occasionally have conflicts of interest with respect to business opportunities and similar matters that may arise in the ordinary course of RiT’s and STINS COMAN’s businesses. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has fluctuated significantly over the years and could continue to be volatile. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future. There can be no assurance that the volatility of our share price and trading volume will not continue. A substantial decrease in market price of our ordinary shares and low trading volumes could frustrate our efforts to raise funds through both debt and equity, discourage potential customers and partners from doing business with us, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market fluctuations could also adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. 13 We may not satisfy the NASDAQ Capital Market's requirements for continued listing. If we cannot satisfy these requirements, NASDAQ could delist our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, or NASDAQ, under the symbol RITT. To continue to be listed on NASDAQ, we are required to satisfy a number of conditions, including a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share, a market value of our publicly held shares, or MVPHS, of at least $1 million and stockholders' equity of at least $2.5 million. In past years, we defaulted on several of these requirements and regained compliance only after we carried out several transactions, including a reverse stock split on August 24, 2009. While we currently satisfy the NASDAQ listing requirements, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to satisfy the minimum bid, MVPHS, shareholders' equity or other NASDAQ listing requirements in the future. If we are delisted from NASDAQ, trading in our ordinary shares may be conducted, if available, on the "OTC Bulletin Board Service" or, if available, via another market. In the event of such delisting, an investor would likely find it significantly more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the value of our ordinary shares, and our ability to raise future capital through the sale of our ordinary shares could be severely limited. In addition, if our ordinary shares were delisted from NASDAQ, our ordinary shares could be considered a "penny stock" under the U.S. federal securities laws. Additional regulatory requirements apply to trading by broker-dealers of penny stocks that could result in the loss of an effective trading market for our ordinary shares. The sale of a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the expectation thereof, could materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise capital through an offering of securities. As of April 27, 2012, we had approximately 5.2 million ordinary shares issued and outstanding and 0.2 million of additional ordinary shares which are issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and STINS COMAN, our controlling shareholder, may further exercise its right to convert the outstanding Convertible Loan into approximately 0.6 million ordinary shares (see “Item 7.B. – Related Party Transactions”). Sales of the ordinary shares previously issued in private placements or issuable upon exercise of options or conversion of the Convertible Loan, or even the prospect of such sales, could materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise capital through our offering of securities at acceptable prices. A substantial decrease in the market price of our ordinary shares could also discourage potential customers and partners from doing business with us, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance operations and to expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Risks Related to Operating In Israel Security, political and economic instability in the Middle East may harm our business. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal offices and R&D facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, security, political and economic conditions in the Middle East in general, and in Israel in particular, directly affect our business. 14 Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since late 2000, there has also been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians which has strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens, Arab countries and, to some extent, with other countries around the world. Terrorist attacks and hostilities within Israel as well as tensions between Israel and Iran, have also heightened these risks. In addition, since early 2011, riots and popular uprisings in various countries in the Middle East have led to severe political instability in those countries. This instability may lead to deterioration of the political and trade relationships that exist between the State of Israel and these countries. In addition, this instability may affect the global economy and marketplace. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, would likely negatively affect business conditions and could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, some neighboring countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. Restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses could have an adverse impact on the expansion of our business. In addition, we could be adversely affected by the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant increase in the rate of inflation, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Our operating results may be negatively affected by the obligation of some of our key personnel to perform military service. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually. In addition, they may also be further subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances and could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. This could disrupt our operations and harm our business. Reduction or termination of our tax and other benefits from government programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are entitled to receive certain tax benefits under Israeli law for investment programs in our production facilities that are designated as "Approved Enterprises". To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet several conditions. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the tax benefits received could be cancelled. The termination or reduction of the tax benefits for these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. To date, we have not utilized such benefits. For more information about Approved Enterprises, see "Item 10.E. – Israeli Tax Considerations – Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959" below and Note 7(B) to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this annual report. Because we have received grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to on-going restrictions. We have received grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, known as the Chief Scientist, for R&D programs and intend to apply for further grants in the future. In order to maintain our eligibility for these grants, we must meet specified conditions, including the payment of royalties with respect to grants received. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, sanctions (such as the cancellation of grants) might be imposed on us, and we could be required to refund any payments previously received under these programs. Any products developed with funds provided by these grants are required to be manufactured in Israel, unless we obtain prior approval from a governmental committee and we pay increased royalties. In addition, the terms of the Chief Scientist’s grants limit our ability to transfer know-how developed under an approved R&D program outside of Israel. The Government of Israel has reduced the grants available under the Chief Scientist's program in recent years, and this program may be discontinued or curtailed in the future. If we do not receive these grants in the future, we will be required to allocate other funds to product development at the expense of other operational costs. For more information about grants from the Chief Scientist, see "Item 5.C. – Research and Development, Patents and Licenses" below. 15 It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors and our auditors, or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Service of process upon us, our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. We have been informed by our legal counsel in Israel, that it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities law because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws and including a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that: · the judgment is enforceable in the state in which it was given; · adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to present his arguments and evidence; · the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; · the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and · an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our stock. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making an acquisition of our company more difficult. For example, under the Companies Law, upon the request of a creditor of either party to a proposed merger, the court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there exists a reasonable concern that as a result of the merger the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of any of the parties to the merger. These provisions could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. See “Item 10.B. - Additional Information — Memorandum and Articles of Association — Anti-Takeover Provisions; Mergers and Acquisitions.” 16 