RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this annual report, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business. These statements are intended to highlight the material risk factors that may cause actual financial, business, research or operating results to differ materially from expectations disclosed in this annual report. See also factors disclosed under “Cautionary statement on forward-looking information”. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of operating losses and it is uncertain when and if we will reach profitability. We have incurred operating losses in each fiscal year since 1998 and may never achieve profitability. We expect that our marketing, selling and research and development expenses will increase as we attempt to develop and commercialize our lithotripsy and High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (“HIFU”) devices. We may not, however, generate a sufficient level of revenue to offset these expenses and may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to respond to any unanticipated decline in revenue. For example, although our net sales for HIFU grew in 2014, this was not sufficient to offset the negative operating income in our UDS division, nor the cost of the clinical trials for our U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) pre-market approval (“PMA”) submission and regulatory process for our Ablatherm device for treatment of low risk, localized prostate cancer and the cost of our corporate activities, thus resulting in a consolidated operating loss. We cannot guarantee that we will realize sufficient revenue to become profitable in the future. See Item 5, ‘‘Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.’’ Our future revenue growth and income depend, among other things, on the success of our HIFU technology. Our Extracorporeal Shockwave Lithotripsy (“ESWL”) line of products competes in a mature market that has experienced declining unit sales prices in recent years. However, we depend on the success of our HIFU technology for future revenue growth and net income. In particular, we are dependent on the successful development and commercialization of other product lines, such as medical devices based on HIFU, particularly the Ablatherm and the Focal One to generate significant additional revenues and achieve and sustain profitability in the future. The Ablatherm is commercialized in the European Union, Canada and other countries; the Focal One is commercialized in the European Union, Saudi Arabia and Canada. However, neither the Ablatherm nor the Focal One is approved for commercial distribution in the United States. We submitted a PMA for Ablatherm in January 2013. On November 6, 2014, following negative votes from the July 30, 2014 FDA Gastroenterology and Urology Devices Panel (“GUDP”) of experts, we received a letter from the FDA indicating that the Ablatherm was not approvable in its current form and providing specific guidance and recommendations as to a path forward. Following further discussions with the FDA, we now plan to seek clearance of Ablatherm HIFU by way of a direct de novo 510(k) application as opposed to the PMA application amendment we had been pursuing. Discussions with the FDA are still ongoing on the information required to support the application and although our team is now diligently focused on preparing the de novo application, given the challenging recommendations of the FDA with regards to our Ablatherm approval process, we do not know when we will be able to submit our de novo application. Once we submit our de novo application, the review of our submission may take longer than expected or may not meet the FDA’s requirements or recommendations which could delay approval, if we receive it at all. Further, even if we do receive the required approvals, we may not receive them on a timely basis and we may not be able to satisfy the conditions of such approval, if any. The failure to receive product approval by the FDA, or any significant delay in receipt thereof, will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See “—Our clinical trials for products using HIFU technology may not be successful” and Item 4, “Information on the Company—HIFU Division—HIFU Division Clinical and Regulatory Status.” We may not have sufficient funds to fund the FDA approval process for our Ablatherm device through completion and our ongoing operations. We have been funding our clinical trials and panel preparation to support the FDA PMA submission for our Ablatherm device using the $17.4 million (€12.0 million) and $8.3 million (€6.1 million) net proceeds from financings we completed in October 2007 and June 2014, respectively. As of December 31, 2014, we had €12.1 million in cash and cash equivalents and short terms investments on hand. While we believe our working capital is, as of the date of this annual report, sufficient for our present working capital requirements, including to fund the de novo 510(k) application to the FDA for our Ablatherm, we may need to raise additional capital in the event of any changes in FDA regulatory process or recommendations regarding our application, significant delays with the FDA review, to fund our U.S. Ablatherm marketing roll-out strategy if and when clearance is granted or to fund new development projects. If funding is not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may need to delay the approval process or decrease our operating expenses. See Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospect—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 7 Our clinical trials for products using HIFU technology may not be successful and we may not be able to obtain FDA or other regulatory approval necessary for commercialization. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our devices under development, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that the device is safe and effective for use in each indication. Product development, including pre-clinical studies and clinical trials is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and is subject to delays and failures at any stage. The results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials may not predict the results that will be obtained in large scale clinical trials. Companies can suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. Furthermore, data obtained from a trial can be insufficient to demonstrate that our products are safe, effective, and marketable. The commencement, continuation or completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted, or inadequate to support approval of an application to regulatory authorities for numerous reasons including, but not limited to: · the FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold; See Item 4, ‘‘Information on the Company—High Intensity Focused Ultrasound Division—HIFU Division Clinical and Regulatory Status.’’ · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrolment; · inability to adequately monitor patient during or after treatment; · failure of patients to complete the clinical trial; · prevalence and severity of adverse events and other unforeseen safety issues; · third-party organizations not performing data collection and analysis in a timely and accurate manner; · governmental and regulatory delays or changes in regulatory requirements, policies or guidelines; · the interim or final results of a clinical trial are inconclusive or unfavorable as to safety or efficacy; and · the FDA or other regulatory authorities concluding that our trial design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Additionally, the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, or may find the clinical trial design, conduct or results inadequate to prove safety or efficacy, and may require us to pursue additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, which would increases costs and could further delay the approval of our products. If we are unable to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products in our clinical trials, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval to market our products. The data we collect from our current clinical trials, our pre-clinical studies and other clinical trials may not be sufficient to support FDA approval. Discussions with regulatory authorities to improve our clinical protocol may prove difficult and lengthy. We, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time and regulating agencies such as the FDA may even refuse to grant exemptions to pursue clinical trials. We may also be required to abandon previous strategies for regulatory approval, despite having made significant financial and time investments, or refocus our efforts on alternative regulatory strategies, resulting in increased costs and efforts of management, without any guarantee of success, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, with respect to our PMA application with the FDA for Ablatherm, the FDA Gastroenterology and Urology Devices Panel (GUDP) voted negatively on the safety, efficacy and risk/benefit ratio for the use of our Ablatherm for the treatment of low-risk localized prostate cancer. On November 6, 2014, we received a letter from the FDA indicating that the Ablatherm was not approvable in its current form and providing specific guidance and recommendations as to a path forward. As a result of further discussions with the FDA, we now plan to seek clearance of Ablatherm HIFU for a prostate tissue ablation claim by way of a direct de novo 510(k) application as opposed to pursuing the PMA. Our HIFU devices that have not received regulatory approval may not prove to be effective or safe in clinical trials or may not be approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities. If our HIFU devices do not prove to be effective and safe in clinical trials to the satisfaction of the relevant regulatory authorities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 8 We operate in a highly regulated industry and our future success depends on obtaining and maintaining government regulatory approval of our products, which we may not receive or be able to maintain or which may be delayed for a significant period of time. Government regulation significantly impacts the development and marketing of our products, particularly in the United States. We are regulated in each of our major markets with respect to preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, distribution, sale, marketing, advertising and promotion of our products. To market and sell products still in the clinical trial stage, we are required to obtain approval or clearance from the relevant regulatory agencies, including the FDA. The process of applying for regulatory approval is unpredictable, often lengthy and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. For example, we are currently pursuing FDA approval for our Ablatherm device. Our U.S. ENLIGHT study of Ablatherm for treatment of low risk, localized prostate cancer began in 2007. Following the December 11, 2009 recommendations of the GUDP of the FDA’s Medical Devices Advisory Committee and our discussions with the FDA, after thoroughly evaluating all options, in April 2010, we decided to discontinue enrollment of patients in the HIFU comparative arm of the study, completed the treatment of 134 patients in June 2010 and then entered into the required two-year follow-up phase, which was completed in June 2012. On January 31, 2013, we submitted our PMA to the FDA for our Ablatherm for treatment of low risk, localized prostate cancer. Following further discussions with the FDA, we now plan to seek clearance of Ablatherm HIFU by way of a direct de novo 510(k) application as opposed to the PMA application amendment we had been pursuing. Discussions with the FDA are still ongoing on the information required to support the application. Although our team is now diligently focused on preparing the de novo application, given the challenging recommendations of the FDA with regards to our Ablatherm approval process, we do not know when we will be able to submit our de novo application. Once we submit our de novo application, the review of our submission may take longer than expected or may not meet the FDA’s requirements which could delay approval, if we receive it at all. Further, there can be no assurance that we will receive the required approvals for our products from the FDA or other regulatory authorities or, if we do receive the required approvals, that we will receive them on a timely basis, on the conditions and for the indications we seek, or that we will otherwise be able to satisfy the conditions of such approval, if any. Even if regulatory approval to market a product is granted, it may include limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements can result in fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. Regulatory policy may change and additional government regulations may be established that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products. Any delay, failure to receive regulatory approval or the loss of previously received approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information on the regulation of our business, see Item 4, ‘‘Information on the Company—Government Regulation’’ and “High Intensity Focused Ultrasound Division—HIFU Division Clinical and Regulatory Status.” Furthermore, changes to regulatory policy or the adoption of additional statutes or regulations that affect our business could impose substantial additional costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. HIFU technology may not be accepted and adopted by the medical community. Our HIFU devices represent new therapies for the conditions that they are designed to treat. Notwithstanding any positive clinical results that our HIFU devices may have achieved or may achieve in the future in terms of safety and efficacy and any marketing approvals that we have obtained or may obtain in the future, there can be no assurance that such products will gain acceptance in the medical community. Physician acceptance depends, among other things, on evidence of the cost effectiveness of a therapy as compared to existing therapies and on adequate reimbursement from healthcare payers, which has not been provided for our HIFU products in any country, except for full public reimbursement in Germany and Italy, in France, under certain conditions and partial reimbursement from private insurers in the United Kingdom.. On April 18, 2014, the French healthcare government authorities announced the reimbursement of prostate cancer treatment procedures using HIFU as part of an innovative process to further validate breakthrough therapies and to accelerate their related reimbursement process based on clinical trials and data registries. Under this innovative process, French healthcare government authorities will review the clinical data gathered within the next five years in view of granting definitive reimbursement for HIFU. However, we cannot guarantee that a definitive reimbursement code will be granted. Furthermore, acceptance by patients depends in part on physician recommendations, as well as other factors, including the degree of invasiveness, the rate and severity of complications and other side effects associated with the therapy as compared to other therapies. 9 If our HIFU devices do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients, health care payers and the medical community, we may not generate or maintain positive cash flows and we may not become profitable or be able to sustain profitability. If we do achieve market acceptance of our products, we may not be able to sustain it or otherwise achieve it to a degree which would support the ongoing viability of our operations. Our cash flow is highly dependent on demand for our products. Our cash flow has historically been subject to significant fluctuations over the course of any given financial year due to seasonal demand for medical devices, and the resulting annual and quarterly fluctuations in trade and other receivables and inventories. This has in the past resulted in significant variations in working capital requirements and operating cash flows. In 2014, 2013 and 2012 and, moreover, our operating cash flow was negative due to the cash requirements of operating activities, working-capital cash requirements, cash requirements of investing activity to expand our mobile activity and to expand the leasing of our products as part of our revenue-per-procedure (“RPP”) model, and sponsoring of the clinical trials in support of our PMA submission to the FDA of our Ablatherm solution for the treatment of prostate cancer in the United States and to expand our commercial lithotripsy activities in the United States, which we financed using cash and cash equivalents on hand. Since we anticipate relying on cash flow from operating activities to meet our liquidity requirements, a decrease in the demand for our products, or the inability of our customers to meet their financial obligations to us, would reduce the funds available to us. Our future cash flow may also be affected by the expected continued expansion of the leasing of our products, or the continued expansion of our mobile activity (which is invoiced on a RPP basis), since each of these activities generates smaller immediate revenues than device sales. In the future, our liquidity may be constrained and our cash flows may be uncertain, negative or significantly different from period to period. Our future cash flow will be affected by increased expenses in sales efforts as well as marketing and promotion tools, while there is no assurance that this will result in the increase in the demand for our products and services. It will also be affected by the expenses for our FDA de novo 510(k) application and regulatory process to seek the FDA’s clearance for our Ablatherm solution for ablation of prostatic tissue in the United States. There is no assurance that our cash flow will in fact be enough to do so or that clinical trials will be successful or that the FDA will grant approval to market our device. Competition in the markets in which we operate is intense and is expected to increase in the future. Competition in the markets in which we operate is intense and is expected to increase in the future. In each of our main businesses, we face competition both directly from other manufacturers of medical devices that apply the same technologies that we use, as well as indirectly from existing or emerging therapies for the treatment of urological disorders. We believe that because ESWL has long been the standard treatment for urinary tract calculus disease, competition in that market comes principally from current manufacturers of lithotripters, including Siemens, Storz and Dornier. In the markets that we target for our HIFU products, competition comes from new market entrants and alternative therapies, as well as from current manufacturers of medical devices. In the HIFU market, our devices, in particular the Ablatherm and the Focal One, compete with all current treatments for localized tumors, including surgery, external beam radiotherapy, brachytherapy and cryotherapy. Other companies working with HIFU technology for the minimally invasive treatment of tumors include SonaCare Medical, a U.S. company which markets a device called the Sonablate SB500 for the treatment of localized prostate cancer. Insightec, an Israeli company owned mainly by General Electric and Elbit Medical Imaging, has developed a device using HIFU technology to treat uterine fibroids, painful bone tumors and brain disorders. Haifu, a Chinese company, is developing HIFU products addressing various types of cancers. Philips Healthcare, a Dutch company, is also developing HIFU devices addressing uterine fibroids, breast tumors and drug delivery activated by HIFU. See Item 4, ‘‘Information on the Company—High Intensity Focused Ultrasound Division— HIFU Competition’’ and Item 4, ‘‘Information on the Company—Urology Devices and Services Division.’’ Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than us and may have more experience in developing, manufacturing, marketing and supporting new medical devices. In addition, our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a leading position in technological innovation, and we cannot assure investors that we will be able to develop new products or enhance our current ones to compete successfully with new or existing technologies. Rapid technological development by competitors may result in our products becoming obsolete before we recover a significant portion of the research, development and commercialization expenses incurred with respect to those products. 10 We also face competition for our maintenance and service contracts. Larger hospitals often utilize their in-house maintenance departments instead of contracting with equipment manufacturers like us to maintain and repair their medical equipment. In addition, third-party medical equipment maintenance companies increasingly compete with equipment manufacturers by offering broad repair and maintenance service contracts to hospitals and clinics. This increased competition for medical devices and maintenance and service contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our products depends on whether procedures performed by those products are eligible for reimbursement which depends on the decisions of national health authorities and third-party payers. Our success depends, among other things, on the extent to which reimbursement can be obtained from healthcare payers in the United States and elsewhere for procedures performed with our products. In the United States, we are dependent upon favorable decisions by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (‘‘CMS’’) for Medicare reimbursement, individual managed care organizations, private insurers and other payers. These decisions may be revised from time to time, which could affect reimbursement for procedures performed using our devices. Outside the United States, and in particular in the European Union and Japan, third-party reimbursement is generally conditioned upon decisions by national health authorities. In the European Union, there is no harmonized procedure for obtaining reimbursement and, consequently, we must seek regulatory approval in each Member State. If we fail to establish reimbursement from healthcare payers or government and private healthcare payers’ policies change, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lithotripsy procedures currently are reimbursed by public healthcare systems in the European Union, in Japan and in the United States. However, a decision in any of those countries to modify reimbursement policies for these procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. In contrast, procedures performed with our Ablatherm devices are not reimbursed in the European Union with the exception of Italy, Germany, in France under certain conditions, and in the UK where procedures are partially reimbursed by either public healthcare systems or private insurers. We cannot assure investors that additional reimbursement approvals will be obtained in the near future. If reimbursement for our products is unavailable, limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. Our manufacturing operations are highly regulated and failure to comply with those regulations would harm our business. Our manufacturing operations must comply with regulations established by regulatory agencies in the United States, the European Union and other countries, and in particular with the Current Good Manufacturing Practices (‘‘CGMP’’) mandated by the FDA and European Union standards for quality assurance and manufacturing process control. Since such standards may change, we may not, at all times, comply with all applicable standards and, as a result would be unable to manufacture our products for commercial sale. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by regulatory authorities at any time. If any inspection by the regulatory authorities reveals deficiencies in manufacturing, we could be required to take immediate remedial actions, suspend production or close the current and future production facilities, which would disrupt our manufacturing processes. Accordingly, failure to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a single site to manufacture our products, and any interruption of operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most of our manufacturing currently takes place in a single facility located in Vaulx-en-Velin, on the outskirts of Lyon, France. In the event of a significant interruption in the operations of our sole facility for any reason, such as fire, flood or other natural disaster or a failure to obtain or maintain required regulatory approvals, we would have no other means of manufacturing our products until we were able to restore the manufacturing capabilities at our facility or develop alternative facilities, which could take considerable time and resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to manufacture a sufficient or consistent supply of our products or products we are developing, or if we cannot do so efficiently, our revenue, business and financial prospects would be adversely affected. For certain components or services we depend on a single supplier who, due to events beyond our control may fail to deliver sufficient supplies to us or increase the cost of items supplied, which would interrupt our production processes or negatively impact our results of operations. We purchase the majority of the components used in our products from a number of suppliers, but rely on a single supplier for some key components. In addition, we rely on single suppliers for certain services. If the supply of certain components or services were interrupted for any reason, our manufacturing and marketing of the affected products would be delayed. These delays could be extensive, especially in situations where a component substitution would require regulatory approval. In addition, such suppliers could decide unilaterally to increase the price of supplied items and therefore cause additional charges for the Company. We expect to continue to depend upon our suppliers for the foreseeable future. Failure to obtain adequate supplies of components or services in a timely manner and at the agreed price could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Intellectual property rights are essential to protect our medical devices, and any dispute with respect to these rights could be costly and have an uncertain outcome. Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to establish and protect the related intellectual property rights, without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims covered in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, the outcome of such claims may be highly uncertain. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive patents and other intellectual property rights litigation. From time to time we receive letters from third parties drawing our attention to their patent rights. Our products, including our HIFU devices, may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings are both costly and time consuming and may result in a significant diversion of effort and resources by our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceeding to which we become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties and pay ongoing royalties, require us to redesign certain products or subject us to injunctions preventing the manufacture, use or sale of the affected products. In addition to being costly, drawn-out litigation to defend or prosecute intellectual property rights could cause our customers or potential customers to defer or limit their purchase or use of our products until the litigation is resolved. See Item 4, ‘‘Information on the Company—High Intensity Focused Ultrasound Division—HIFU Division Patents and Intellectual Property’’ and Item 4, ‘‘Information on the Company—Urology Devices and Services Division—UDS Division Patents and Intellectual Property.’’ We own patents covering several of our technologies and have additional patent applications pending in the United States, the European Union, Japan and elsewhere. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive and there can be no assurance that our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents. We also cannot assure investors that our current or future patents are or will be sufficient to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. Our patents or patent applications could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. The failure to maintain or obtain necessary patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights from third parties on acceptable terms or the invalidation or cancellation of material patents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Our competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may apply for and obtain patents that will interfere with our ability to make, use or sell certain products, including our HIFU devices, either in the United States or in foreign markets. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which we seek to protect through non-disclosure agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. It is possible, however, that those non-disclosure agreements will be breached, that we will not have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that our trade secrets will become known to, or independently developed by, competitors. Litigation may be necessary to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. We face a significant risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury or death. Our products are designed to be used in the treatment of severe affections and conditions. Despite the use of our products, patients may suffer personal injury or death, and we may, as a result, face significant product liability claims. We maintain separate product liability insurance policies for the United States and Canada and for the other markets in which we sell our products. Product liability insurance is expensive and there can be no assurance that it will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, our insurance may not cover certain product liability claims or our liability for any claims may exceed our coverage limits. A product liability claim or series of claims brought against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage, or any claim or product recall that results in significant cost to or adverse publicity against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign the product which could result in costly corrective actions and harm to our business reputation, which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 We are currently and may in the future be the target of securities class action or other litigation, which could be costly and time consuming to defend. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because innovative life sciences and medical device companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. On August 4, 2014, a purported class action lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, asserting that the Company, Marc Oczachowski, and Eric Soyer violated federal securities laws by issuing materially false and misleading statements that caused the price of our ADSs to be artificially inflated. An amended complaint alleges that the Company and Mr. Oczachowski breached their obligations under the Exchange Act in various ways, including by misrepresenting and failing to disclose allegedly material information about the safety and efficacy of treatment with Ablatherm-HIFU, and the Company’s interactions with the FDA. The complaint seeks unspecified damages, interest, costs, and fees, including attorneys’ and experts’ fees. On December 31, 2014, we accrued $250,000 (€206,000) as legal costs to be incurred by the Company in relation to this litigation. In February 2015, the defendants, including the Company, filed a motion to dismiss. We cannot predict the outcome of this motion to dismiss. We believe we have valid defenses to this matter and intend to deny liability and defend our position vigorously. We have notified our insurance carriers of this litigation and no determination can be made at this stage as to the likely outcome of the ongoing procedures and whether it will be material to us. Therefore, no loss contingency beyond legal costs of $250,000 has been booked with regard to this matter. Such litigation, regardless of its outcome, and any additional litigation, if instituted, causes and could cause us to incur substantial costs and our management resources are and could be diverted to defending such litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We sell our products in many parts of the world and, as a result, our business is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk because the mix of currencies in which our costs are denominated is different from the mix of currencies in which we earn our revenue. In 2014, approximately 81% of our total costs of sales and operating expenses were denominated in euro, while approximately 32% of our sales were denominated in currencies other than euro (primarily the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen). Our operating profitability could be materially adversely affected by large fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the euro and other currencies. For instance, a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar or the Japanese yen against the euro would have a negative effect on our revenues, which may not be offset by an equal reduction in operating expenses and would therefore negatively impact operating profitability. From time to time we enter into foreign exchange forward sale contracts to hedge against fluctuations in the exchange rates of the principal foreign currencies in which our receivables are denominated (in particular, the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen), but there can be no assurance that such hedging activities will limit the effect of movements in exchange rates on our results of operations. As of December 31, 2014, we had no outstanding hedging instruments. In addition, since any dividends that we may declare will be denominated in euro, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of any dividends received by holders of ADSs. For more information concerning our exchange rate exposure, see Item 11. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Our results of operations have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter depending upon numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the timing and results of clinical trials, changes in healthcare reimbursement policies, seasonality of demand for our products, changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors, new product announcements by us or our competitors, customer order deferrals in anticipation of new or enhanced products offered by us or our competitors, product quality problems and exchange rate fluctuations. Furthermore, because our main products have relatively high unit prices, the amount and timing of individual orders can have a substantial effect on our results of operations in any given quarter. 13 Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by the adverse economic and financial developments. The current economic and financial environment has affected the level of public and private spending in the healthcare sector generally. A cautious or negative business outlook may cause our customers to further delay or cancel investment in medical equipment, which would adversely affect our revenues. In addition, we rely on the credit market to secure dedicated lease financings to fund the development of our RPP activity. Due to the limited availability of lending in the current market environment, we may be unable to access sufficient lease financing. Without lease financing, we may be unable to continue the development of our RPP activity or we may need to fund such activity out of our existing working capital. Similarly, some of our clients rely on lease financing to finance their purchases of equipment. Limited availability of lease financing facilities may also affect their purchasing decisions and may adversely impact our equipment sales. While we believe our working capital is, as of the date of this annual report, sufficient for our present working capital requirements, including to fund the de novo 510(k) application with the FDA for our Ablatherm through completion, we may need to raise additional capital in the event of any changes in FDA regulatory process or recommendations regarding our de novo 510(k) application, or significant delays in the preparation of our de novo 510(k) application or the FDA review thereof, and/or to fund our U.S. Ablatherm marketing roll-out strategy if and when clearance is granted or to fund new development projects. If funding is not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may need to delay the approval process, launch of new developments or decrease our operating expenses. The issuance of ADSs upon exercise of outstanding warrants will cause immediate and substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. The issuance of ADSs upon exercise of the warrants issued in March 2012 (the “March 2012 Warrants”) and in May 2013 (the “May 2013 Warrants”) will result in dilution of other shareholders since the selling shareholders may ultimately sell the full amount of ADSs issuable on exercise. Based on the total number of outstanding warrants as of April 2, 2015, and on the total number outstanding options to subscribe to new shares, up to 4,088,996 ADSs are issuable upon exercise, representing approximately 16.1% of our issued and outstanding share capital. Although no single warrant holder may exercise its Warrants if such exercise would cause it to own more than 9.99% of our outstanding ordinary shares, this restriction does not prevent each holder from exercising a portion of its holdings and selling those securities. In this way, each holder could sell more than this limit while never holding more than such limit. On April 22, 2014, we filed a Form F-3 registration statement with the SEC to register ordinary shares and warrants for a maximum amount of $50 million, hence providing for registration of any future new ordinary shares issued for the purpose of raising capital. This registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on May 5, 2014. We issued and registered shares under this registration statement on June 2, 2014. On June 30, 2014, our shareholders extended the validity of existing resolutions, and renewed the June 17, 2013 authorization to issue a maximum of 10 million new shares. The sale of ADSs issued upon exercise of outstanding warrants could encourage short sales by third parties which could further depress the price of our ADSs. Any downward pressure on the price of ADSs caused by the sale of ADS issued upon the exercise of the outstanding warrants could encourage short sales by third parties. In a short sale, a prospective seller borrows shares from a shareholder or broker and sells the borrowed shares. The prospective seller hopes that the share price will decline, at which time the seller can purchase shares at a lower price for delivery back to the lender. The seller profits when the share price declines because it is purchasing shares at a price lower than the sale price of the borrowed shares. Such sales could place downward pressure on the price of our ADSs by increasing the number of ADSs being sold, which could further contribute to any decline in the market price of our ADSs. 14 Risks Relating to Ownership of Securities Our securities may be affected by volume fluctuations, and may fluctuate significantly in price, causing you to lose some or all of your investment. Our ADSs are currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. The average daily trading volume of our ADSs in 2014 was 152,874, the high and low bid price of our ADSs for the last two financial years ended on December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, was $6.05 and $1.15, and $4.94 and $1.98, respectively. Our ADSs have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs without regard to our operating performance. For example, average daily trading volume of our ADSs in December 2013 was 77,719 as opposed to 144,032 for the same period of 2014. The price of our securities and our ADSs in particular, may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including changes in our business, operations and prospects, regulatory considerations, results of clinical trials of our products or those of our competitors, developments in patents and other proprietary rights, and general market and economic conditions. These broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. If you invest in our ADSs, you could lose some or all of your investment. In addition, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. We are currently the subject of such litigation, and such litigation, regardless of its outcome, and any additional litigation, if instituted, causes and could cause us to incur substantial costs and our management resources are and could be diverted to defending such litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We may issue additional securities that may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. As described above, on June 30, 2014, our shareholders adopted resolutions allowing the Board of Directors to issue new shares in an aggregate maximum amount of 10 million shares. As of April 2, 2015, the maximum number of shares available to be issued is still 10 million. The issuance of additional ordinary shares, including any additional ordinary shares issuable pursuant to the exercise of preferential subscription rights that may not be available to all of our shareholders, would reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of the then-existing shareholders. We are subject to different corporate disclosure standards that may limit the information available to holders of our ADSs. As a foreign private issuer, we are not required to comply with the notice and disclosure requirements under the Exchange Act relating to the solicitation of proxies for shareholder meetings. Although we are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the periodic disclosure required of foreign private issuers under the Exchange Act is more limited than the periodic disclosure required of U.S. issuers. Therefore, there may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about other public companies in the United States. We currently do not intend to pay dividends, and cannot assure shareholders that we will make dividend payments in the future. We have never paid any dividend on our shares and do not anticipate paying any dividends for the foreseeable future. Thereafter, declaration of dividends on our shares will depend upon, among other things, future earnings, if any, the operating and financial condition of our business, our capital requirements, general business conditions and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. See Item 8, “Financial Information—Dividends and Dividend Policy.” Judgments of U.S. courts, including those predicated on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States, may not be enforceable in French courts. An investor in the United States may find it difficult to: • effect service of process upon or obtain jurisdiction over us or our non-U.S. resident directors and officers in the United States; • enforce U.S. court judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our non-U.S. resident directors and officers in France; or the United States; or • bring an original action in a French court to enforce liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our non-U.S. resident directors and officers. 15 Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the Depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights as shareholders and accordingly, cannot exercise rights of shareholders against us. The Bank of New York Mellon, as Depositary (the “Depositary”), is the registered shareholder of the deposited shares underlying the ADSs, and therefore holders of ADSs will generally have to exercise the rights attached to those shares through the Depositary. We have used and will continue to use reasonable efforts to request that the Depositary notify the holders of ADSs of upcoming votes and ask for voting instructions from them. If a holder fails to return a voting instruction card to the Depositary by the date established by it for receipt of such voting instructions, or if the Depositary receives an improperly completed or blank voting instruction card, or if the voting instructions included in the voting instruction card are illegible or unclear, then such holder will be deemed to have instructed the Depositary to vote its shares and the Depositary shall vote such shares in favor of any resolution proposed or approved by our Board of Directors and against any resolution not so proposed or approved. Preferential subscription rights may not be available for U.S. persons. Under French law, shareholders have preferential rights to subscribe for cash issuances of new shares or other securities giving rights to acquire additional shares on a pro rata basis. U.S. holders of our securities may not be able to exercise preferential subscription rights for their shares unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements imposed by the Securities Act is available. We may, from time to time, issue new shares or other securities giving rights to acquire additional shares (such as warrants) at a time when no registration statement is in effect and no Securities Act exemption is available. If so, U.S. holders of our securities will be unable to exercise their preferential rights and their interests will be diluted. We are under no obligation to file any registration statement in connection with any issuance of new shares or other securities. For holders of ADSs, the Depositary may make these rights or other distributions available to holders after we instruct it to do so and provide it with evidence that it is legal to do so. If we fail to do this and the Depositary determines that it is impractical to sell the rights, it may allow these rights to lapse. In that case the holders of ADSs will receive no value for them. Holders of our ADSs may be exposed to increased transaction costs as a result of proposed European financial transaction taxes. On February 14, 2013, the EU Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive (the "Draft Directive") on a common financial transaction tax (the "FTT"). According to the Draft Directive, the FTT should have been implemented and should have entered into effect in eleven EU Member States (Austria, Belgium, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Slovakia, and Slovenia, the “Participating Member States”) towards the middle of 2014. Pursuant to the Draft Directive, the FTT was to be payable on financial transactions provided at least one party to the financial transaction is established or deemed established in a Participating Member State and there is a financial institution established or deemed established in a Participating Member State which is a party to the financial transaction, or is acting in the name of a party to the transaction. The rates of the FTT were to be fixed by each Participating Member State but for transactions involving financial instruments other than derivatives would have amounted to at least 0.1% of the taxable amount. The taxable amount for such transactions was in general to be determined by reference to the consideration paid or owed in return for the transfer. The Draft Directive has not been adopted. A proposal combining a broader scope and lower rates is currently being discussed between Participating Member States, with the objective to make the FTT applicable as from January 1, 2016. Prospective holders should therefore note, in particular, that any sale, purchase, or exchange of the Shares or ADSs could become subject to the FTT. The holder may be liable to itself pay this charge or reimburse a financial institution for the charge, and / or may affect the value of the Shares or ADSs. The Draft Directive is still subject to negotiation between the Participating Member States and therefore may be changed at any time. Moreover, once the Draft Directive has been adopted (the "FTT Directive"), it will need to be implemented into the respective domestic laws of the Participating Member States and the domestic provisions implementing the FTT Directive might deviate from the FTT Directive itself. See Item 10, "Certain Income Tax Considerations." 16 