Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company could experience an increase in loan losses, which would reduce the Company’s earnings. As the nation continues to suffer from an economic recession, real estate prices remain under pressure in the Company’s market. Furthermore, elevated levels of unemployment have made it difficult for many consumers to meet their monthly obligations. The deployment of military personnel out of Fort Campbell to the Middle East may reduce both demand for and pricing of all types of real estate in the Company’s largest market. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. As discussed in Footnote 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has significant exposure to various types of real estate loans, including commercial real estate, land and land development loans, construction loans, multi-family real estate and loans for residential homes. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and our industry has seen above average loan loss levels for approximately eighteen months. While the Company believes that its loan underwriting standards have been and remain sound, the Company has experienced an increase in charge offs and non-performing loans. To the extent charge offs exceed our financial models, increased amounts charged to the provision for loan losses would reduce net income. Rapidly changing interest rate environments could reduce our net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income. Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of our net income. Interest rates are the key drivers of the Company’s net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in the maturities of the Company’s assets and liabilities. Furthermore, substantially higher rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”. 38 Liquidity needs could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company relies on dividends from the Bank as a primary source of funds. The Bank’s primary source of funds is customer deposits and cash flows from investment instruments and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source, they are subject to the ability of the borrowers to repay their loans. The ability of the borrowers to repay their loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting the business environment, natural disasters and various other factors. Cash flows from the investment portfolio may be affected by changes in interest rates, resulting in excessive levels of cash flow during periods of declining interest rates and lower levels of cash flow during periods of rising interest rates. Deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including both the national market and local competitive interest rate environment, local and national economic conditions, natural disasters and other various events. Accordingly, the Company may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include the FHLB advances, brokered deposits and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. The Company may also pledge investments as collateral to borrow money from third parties. In certain cases, the Company may sell investment instruments for sizable losses to meet liquidity needs, hurting net income. While the Company believes that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity needs. The financial industry is very competitive. We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services throughout our market area. Our competitors include other community banks, regional and super-regional banking institutions, national banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies, brokerage companies, and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than HopFed Bancorp, Inc. Inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our revenues and net income. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting, hiring, and training expenses, resulting in lower net income. The Company is subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict its activities. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Company’s regulatory compliance is costly and certain types of activities, including the payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged and interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices are subject to regulatory approval and may be limited by regulation. The Company is also subject to capitalization guidelines established by its regulators, which require it and the Bank to maintain adequate capital to support its and the Bank’s growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and the Company cannot predict the effects of these changes on its business and profitability. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ National Market that are now and will be applicable to the Company, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, the Company has experienced, and may continue to experience, greater compliance cost. 39 Legislation was enacted on July 21, 2010 that will implement sweeping changes to the current bank regulatory structure. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the OTS. The Comptroller of the Currency (the primary federal regulator for national banks) will become the primary federal regulator of the Bank. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) now has exclusive authority to regulate all bank and thrift holding companies. As a result, the Company is now subject to supervision by the FRB as opposed to the OTS. These changes occurred July 21, 2011. Among the many requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act for new banking regulations is a requirement for new capital regulations to be adopted within 18 months. These regulations must be at least as stringent as, and may call for higher levels of capital than, current regulations. Generally, trust preferred securities will no longer be eligible as Tier 1 capital, but the Company’s currently outstanding trust preferred securities will be grandfathered. Savings and loan holding companies like the Company have not previously been subject to capital requirements, but under the Dodd-Frank Act, five years from the date of enactment, savings and loan holding companies will become subject to the same capital requirements as bank holding companies. Savings and loan holding companies are immediately subject to the source of strength doctrine, under which a holding company must serve as a source of financial strength for its depository institution subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes a new minimum reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund of 1.35%, and requires the FDIC to take steps to reach this ratio by September 30, 2020. It is expected that this will result in relatively higher assessments for larger institutions (with assets greater than $10 billion). Even though the Company’s common stock is currently traded on The NASDAQ National Market, the trading volume in the Company’s common stock has been low and the sale of substantial amounts of its common stock in the public market could depress the price of the Company’s common stock. The trading volume of the Company’s common stock on The NASDAQ National Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on The NASDAQ National Market or other stock exchanges. Thinly traded stocks, such as the Company’s, can be more volatile than stocks trading in an active public market. Because of this, the Company stockholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of its common stock in the market, or availability of shares of its common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market prices of the Company’s common stock. The Company, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of its common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sale in the market, would not cause the price of its common stock to decline or impair the Company’s ability to raise capital through sales of its common stock. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to its performance. General market prices declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. The current banking crisis, including the enactment of Emergency Economic Stabilization Action (EESA) and American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), have significantly affected our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or stock price. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers seeming without regard to that issuer’s underlying financial strength. 40 EESA, which established the TARP, was signed into law in October 2008. As part of TARP, the Treasury established the Capital Purchase Program (CPP) to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of preferred shares and other financial instruments with the stated purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed ARRA, an economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for a broad range of infrastructure, energy, health and educational needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and the ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and the continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common shares. The Company conducts virtually all of its business activities in a geographically concentrated area of Middle and West Tennessee and Western Kentucky. The Company operates eighteen offices located in Middle Tennessee and Western Kentucky. The Company maintains significant business relationships in the markets in which it operates as well as the communities adjoining our offices. Therefore, the Company’s success is directly tied to the economic viability of our markets which may not be representative of the country as a whole. In 2012, the Company’s market had unemployment rates ranging from 8% to 24%. While the Company believes that its credit quality has been strong given the current environment, continued economic stress in the market may result in an increase in non-performing loans and charge offs. Given the limited geographic footprint of our Company, the economic conditions in our marketplace may not be reflective of the entire nation. Management’s analysis of the necessary funding for the allowance for loan loss account may be incorrect or may suddenly change, resulting in lower earnings. The funding of the allowance for loan loss account is the most significant estimate made by management in its financial reporting to shareholders and regulators. If negative changes to the performance of the Company’s loan portfolio were to occur, management may find it necessary or be required to funding the allowance for loan loss account through additional charges to the Company’s provision for loan loss expense. These changes may occur suddenly and be dramatic in nature. These changes are likely to affect the Company’s financial performance, capital levels and stock price. The December 31, 2012 expiration of the FDIC’s Transaction Account Guarantee Program could negatively impact our liquidity and cost of funds. Under the FDIC’s Transaction Account Guarantee Program, certain non-interest bearing transaction accounts, including those of consumers and businesses, were insured by the FDIC even if their balances were over and above the customary $250,000 limit. This program expired on December 31, 2012, and deposits held in such non-interest bearing accounts are now aggregated with any interest bearing deposits the owner may hold in the same ownership category. We currently have a significant amount of our deposits that exceed the customary $250,000 limit. Although we have not experienced a large number of withdrawals with respect to these deposits, a withdrawal of these deposits could negatively impact the Company’s liquidity. Furthermore, the withdrawal of these deposits could negatively impact the Company’s cost of funds by potentially reducing its levels of core deposits and increasing its need to rely on more expensive funding sources. If the federal funds and interbank funding rates remain at current extremely low levels, our net interest margin, and consequently our net earnings, may be negatively impacted. Because of significant competitive pressures in our market and the negative impact of these pressures on our deposit and loan pricing, coupled with the fact that a significant portion of our loan portfolio has variable rate pricing that moves in concert with changes to the Federal Reserve Board of Governors’ federal funds rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) (both of which are at extremely low levels as a result of current economic conditions), our net interest margin may be negatively impacted. Additionally, the amount of non-accrual loans and other real estate owned has been and may continue to be elevated. 41 We also expect loan pricing to remain competitive in 2013 and believe that economic factors affecting broader markets will likely result in reduced yields for our investment securities portfolio. As a result, our net interest margin, and consequently our profitability, may continue to be negatively impacted in 2013 and beyond. Holders of HopFed Capital Trust I have rights that are senior to those of the Company’s common shareholders. The Company has issued trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2012, HopFed had outstanding trust preferred securities $10.3 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by the Company. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures HopFed issued to the trusts are senior to our common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on common stock and, in the event of the Company’s , dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to HopFed’s common shareholders. The Company has the right to defer distributions on its junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on its common stock. If our financial condition deteriorates or if we do not receive required regulatory approvals, we may be required to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures. Currently proposed changes to capital requirements for bank holding companies and depository institutions may negatively impact our results of operations. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and OCC approved proposed rules that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to HopFed Bancorp and Heritage Bank. The proposed rules implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of bank and thrift holding companies, such as HopFed Bancorp. The leverage and risk-based capital ratios of these entities may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The proposed rules that seek to implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which were initially expected to be phased in during 2013 and 2014. These rules if implemented would refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The proposed new minimum capital level requirements applicable to HopFed Bancorp and Heritage Bank under the proposals would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.5%. As currently proposed, the capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital levels fall below the buffer amounts. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the proposed Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to HopFed Bancorp or Heritage Bank as the federal regulatory agencies that have proposed the rules have announced that they are indefinitely delaying the implementation of the rules. The application of more stringent capital requirements for HopFed Bancorp and Heritage Bank, like those proposed to implement the Basel III reforms, could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back shares. 42 A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause financial losses. Our businesses are dependent on their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets. These transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. Due to the breadth of our client base and our geographical reach, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure is challenging, particularly as a result of rapidly evolving legal and regulatory requirements and technological shifts. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, cyber-attack or other unforeseen catastrophic events, which may adversely affect our ability to process these transactions or provide services. In addition, our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our and our clients’ information across all geographic and product lines, and endeavor to modify these protective measures as circumstances warrant, the nature of the threats continues to evolve. As a result, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber-attacks and other events that could have an adverse security impact. Despite the defensive measures we take to manage our internal technological and operational infrastructure, these threats may originate externally from third parties such as foreign governments, organized crime and other hackers, and outsource or infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or may originate internally from within our organization. Given the increasingly high volume of our transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they can be discovered and rectified. We also face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, our operational systems, data or infrastructure. In addition, as interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients’ systems. Although we have not experienced a cyber-incident, if one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, as well as our clients’ or other third parties’, operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, substantial costs, regulatory penalties and/or client dissatisfaction or loss. Potential costs of a cyber-incident may include, but would not be limited to, remediation costs, increased protection costs, lost revenue from the unauthorized use of proprietary information or the loss of current and/or future customers, and litigation. We maintain an insurance policy which we believe provides sufficient coverage at a manageable expense for an institution of our size and scope with similar technological systems. However, we cannot assure that this policy would be sufficient to cover all financial losses, damages, penalties, including lost revenues, should we experience any one or more of our or a third party’s systems failing or experiencing attack. 43 Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss which could lead to higher loan losses and non- accrual assets. We originate commercial real estate loans, construction and development loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. Commercial real estate, commercial, and construction and development loans tend to involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers and are most susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. These loans also have historically had greater credit risk than other loans for the following reasons: • Commercial Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. These loans also involve greater risk because they may not be fully amortizing over a loan period, but may have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. As of December 31, 2012, commercial real estate loans and multi-family loans comprised approximately 37.8% of our total loan portfolio, or 165.7% of the Company’s total risk based capital. At December 31, 2012, the Company had $25.2 million of its commercial real estate and multi-family real estate loans classified as substandard which equaled 12.4% of that portfolio. At December 31, 2012, the Company’s allowance for loan losses included $4.2 million allocated to this portfolio. • Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise, be illiquid, or fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. As of December 31, 2012, commercial loans comprised approximately 9.5% of our total loan portfolio, or 41.4% of the Company’s consolidated total risk based capital. At December 31, 2012, the Company had $5.8 million of its commercial loan portfolio classified as substandard which equaled 11.6% of that portfolio. At December 31, 2012, the Company’s allowance for loan losses included $619,000 allocated to this portfolio. • Construction and Development Loans. The risk of loss is largely dependent on our initial estimate of whether the property’s value at completion equals or exceeds the cost of property construction and the availability of take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays or cost overruns. If our estimate is inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing our loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan, sale of the property, or by seizure of collateral. As of December 31, 2012, construction, land and land development loans comprised approximately 12.1% of our total loan portfolio and approximately 53.0% of the Company’s consolidated total risk based capital. At December 31, 2012, the Company had $28.7 million of its construction and development loans classified as substandard which equaled 44.3% of that portfolio. At December 31, 2012, the Company’s allowance for loan losses included $2.4 million allocated to this portfolio. The increased risks associated with these types of loans result in a correspondingly higher probability of default on such loans (as compared to single-family real estate loans). Loan defaults would likely increase our loan losses and non-accrual assets and could adversely affect our allowance for loan losses. 44 Since we engage in lending secured by real estate and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property and own the underlying real estate, we may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, which could result in reduced net income. Since we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to general and local economic conditions, changing values of property, interest rates, unpaid real estate taxes, environmental issues, operating expenses involved with managing other real estate owned, and the supply and demand for units held for sale as well as other unforeseen cost and delays. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and Europe’s debt crisis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. Standard & Poor’s lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America from AAA to AA+ on August 5, 2011. A further downgrade or a downgrade by other rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. Any such adverse impact could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the possibility that certain European Union (“EU”) member states will default on their debt obligations has negatively impacted economic conditions and global markets. The continued uncertainty over the outcome of international and the EU’s financial support programs and the possibility that other EU member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. The negative impact on economic conditions and global markets could also have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks arising from acquisitions of either other financial institutions or branch locations. We have announced the acquisition of another financial institution and may continue to do so in the future. We face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including difficulties in integrating the acquired business into our operations, difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees and intermediaries, difficulties in retaining the existing customers of the acquired entity, unforeseen liabilities that arise in connection with the acquired business and unfavorable market conditions that could negatively impact our growth expectations for the acquired business. These risks may prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from acquisitions and could result in the impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets recognized at the time of acquisition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 45 