RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Brazil Brazilian political and economic conditions could affect our business and the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. In addition, uncertainty regarding such changes could affect our business and the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. The Brazilian government’s economic policies have in the past involved, among other measures, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by these economic policies in case they are reinstated. These and other measures could also affect the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. Dilma Rousseff was elected President of Brazil in October 2010, and she took office in January 2011. We cannot guarantee that the Rousseff administration will maintain the economic policies that were adopted by the past administration. If the Brazilian government decided to make significant changes to current economic policy, these changes could adversely affect our results of operations, the market price of our Class B shares and ADSs, as well as the Brazilian economy generally. In addition, uncertainty concerning the current government could influence the perception of risk in Brazil among international investors, which could in turn adversely affect the market price of our Class B Shares and ADSs. The market prices of Brazilian companies have been volatile during past presidential elections. Fluctuations in the value of the Brazilian real against foreign currencies may result in uncertainty in the Brazilian economy and the Brazilian securities market, and they could have a material adverse effect on our net income and cash flow. In recent years, the Brazilian real has fluctuated against foreign currencies, and the value of the real may rise or decline substantially from current levels. For several years, and continuing through the first half of 2008, the Brazilian real strengthened regularly against the U.S. dollar. The real depreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar in the second half of 2008, but then appreciated against the U.S. dollar in 2009 and 2010 in the context of broader economic recovery in Brazil. For additional information about historical exchange rates, see “Exchange Rates.” Depreciation of the real increases the cost of servicing our foreign currency-denominated debt and the cost of purchasing electricity from the Itaipu Power Plant, a hydroelectric facility that is one of our major suppliers and that adjusts electricity prices based in part on its U.S. dollar costs. Depreciation of the real also creates additional inflationary pressures in Brazil that may negatively affect us. Depreciation generally curtails access to international capital markets and may prompt government intervention. It also reduces the U.S. dollar value of our dividends and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the market price of our common shares and the ADSs. If Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, our margins and the market price of the Class B Shares and ADSs may be reduced. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation. More recently, Brazil’s annual rates of inflation, measured in accordance with the variation of the Índice Geral de Preços - Disponibilidade Interna (“IGP-DI”) index, were 3.8% in 2006, 7.9% in 2007, 9.1% in 2008, (1.4)% in 2009, 11.3% in 2010 and 2.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The Brazilian government has in the past taken measures to combat inflation, and public speculation about possible future government actions has had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. Although our concession contracts provide for annual readjustments based on inflation indices, if Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, and the Brazilian government adopts inflation control policies similar to those adopted in the past, our costs may increase faster than our revenues, our operating and net margins may decrease and, if investor confidence lags, the price of the Class B Shares and ADSs may fall. Inflationary pressures may also curtail our ability to access foreign financial markets and may lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that may adversely affect the overall performance of the Brazilian economy. 6 Table of Contents Changes in Brazilian tax policies may have an adverse effect on us. The Brazilian government has changed its tax policies in ways that affect the electricity sector, and it may do so again in the future. These changes include increases in the tax rates affecting energy companies and, occasionally, the collection of temporary taxes related to specific governmental purposes. If we are unable to adjust our tariffs accordingly, we may be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Operations We are controlled by the State of Paraná, and government policy could have a material adverse effect on us and on our business. We are controlled by the State of Paraná, which holds 58.6% of our outstanding common voting shares as of the date of this annual report, and whose interests may differ from other shareholders. As a major shareholder, the State of Paraná has the power to control all of our operations, including the power to elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors and determine the outcome of any action requiring common shareholder approval, including transactions with related parties and corporate reorganizations. Government policies undertaken by the State of Paraná in accordance with federal law could have a material adverse effect on us and our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. We are largely dependent upon the economy of the State of Paraná. Our distribution market for the majority of our sales of electricity is located in the State of Paraná. Although a more competitive market involving possible sales to customers outside Paraná might develop in the future, our business depends and is expected to continue to depend to a very large extent on the economic conditions of Paraná. We cannot assure you that economic conditions in Paraná will be favorable to us in the future. The GDP (Gross Domestic Product) of the State of Paraná increased 8.3% in 2010, while Brazil’s GDP increased 7.5% during the same period. We are involved in several lawsuits that could have a material adverse effect on our business if their outcome is unfavorable to us. As a result of our operating activities in the electric energy sector, our contractual relationships and our investments, we are the defendant in several legal actions, mainly relating to civil, administrative, labor and tax claims. The outcome of these proceedings is uncertain and, if determined against us, may result in obligations that could materially affect our results of operations. For additional information, see “Item 8. Financial Information - Legal Proceedings.” The development of transmission and power generation projects is subject to substantial risks. In connection with the development of transmission and generation projects, we generally must obtain feasibility studies, governmental concessions or authorizations, permits and approvals, condemnation agreements, equipment supply agreements, engineering, procurement and construction contracts, sufficient equity and debt financing and site agreements, each of which involves the consent of third-parties over which we have no control. In addition, project development is subject to environmental, engineering and construction risks that can lead to cost overruns, delays and other impediments to timely complete within a project’s budget. We cannot assure you that all required permits and approvals for our projects will be obtained, that we will be able to secure private sector partners for any of our projects, that we or any of our partners will be able to obtain adequate financing for our projects or that financing will be available on a non-recourse basis to us. If we are unable to complete a project, whether at the initial development phase or after construction has commenced, we may not be able to recover our investment in such a project, which investment may be substantial. 7 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Brazilian Electricity Sector We are uncertain as to the renewal of our concessions. We carry out our generation, transmission and distribution activities pursuant to concession agreements entered into with the Brazilian federal government. Our current concessions range in duration from 20 to 35 years, with the first set to expire in 2015. Thirteen of our generation concessions have already been renewed once and are therefore not entitled to further renewal without undergoing a new public bidding process. The renewal process for Rio dos Patos and Marumbi is ongoing. The concessions for three of our generation facilities, which were already renewed in 1995, will expire in 2015 (namely, the Capivari Cachoeira, Mourão and Chopim I facilities). Our generation concessions that have not yet been renewed may be renewed for an additional 20-year period, except for the concessions of the Mauá and Colíder facilities, which are subject to non-renewable concessions. Our main transmission and our distribution concessions will expire in July 2015 and may be extended another 20 years, at the discretion of the granting authority. Our other transmission concessions may be renewed for 30 years. Despite the renewal provision in our main transmission concession contract, we are not assured of our ability to effectively renew this concession due to uncertainty surrounding the renewal process. The Brazilian constitution requires that all concessions relating to public services, such as electricity, be awarded through a bidding process. Under laws and regulations specific to the electric sector, the federal government may renew existing concessions for additional periods, provided that the concessionaire has met minimum performance standards and that the proposal is otherwise acceptable to the federal government. For public service concessions, the federal government decides whether to renew contracts or to require a new bidding process based on, among other things, if such renewal is in the public’s interest. Therefore, there can be no assurance that our concessions will be extended, and, if they are extended, if the conditions under which such extension are granted will be favorable to us. If our concessions are not extended, or are extended under less favorable conditions, our operations and financial results may be adversely affected. The tariffs that we charge for sales of electricity to captive customers are determined pursuant to a concession agreement with the Brazilian government through ANEEL, and our operating revenues could be adversely affected if ANEEL makes decisions relating to our tariffs that are unfavorable to us. Moreover, ANEEL’s decisions may be contested in judicial or administrative proceedings initiated by public authorities or customers. ANEEL has substantial discretion to establish the tariff rates we charge our customers, which are determined pursuant to a concession agreement with ANEEL and in accordance with ANEEL’s regulatory decision-making authority. Our distribution concession agreement and Brazilian law establish a price cap mechanism that permits three types of tariff adjustments: (i) annual readjustment (reajuste anual), (ii) periodic revision (revisão periódica), and (iii) extraordinary revision (revisão extraordinária). We are entitled to apply each year for the annual readjustment, which is designed to offset some effects of inflation on tariffs and pass through to customers certain changes in our cost structure that are beyond our control, such as the cost of electricity we purchase from certain sources and certain other regulatory charges, including charges for the use of transmission facilities. In addition, ANEEL carries out a periodic revision every four years that is aimed at identifying variations in our costs as well as setting a factor based on our operational efficiency that will be applied against the index of our ongoing annual tariff readjustments, the effect of which is to ensure that we share the benefits of improved economies of scale with our customers. At any time, we may also request an extraordinary revision of our tariffs in the case of a significant and unexpected event, including if such an event significantly alters our cost structure. We cannot assure you that ANEEL will establish tariffs at rates that are favorable to us. To the extent that any of our requests for adjustments are not granted by ANEEL in a timely manner, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, ANEEL’s decisions relating to our tariffs may be contested by public authorities or by our customers. Administrative and judicial decisions resulting from these challenges may modify ANEEL’s decisions in a manner that is unfavorable to us, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Certain customers in our concession area may cease to use our distribution system. Our distribution business generates a large portion of its revenues by charging customers a tariff to use its distribution system. Large electricity customers within the geographic area of our concession that meet certain regulatory requirements may qualify as Free Customers (“Free Customers”). A Free Customer, under some circumstances, is entitled to connect directly to the main national transmission network known as the Interconnected Transmission System (“Interconnected Transmission System”), in which case that Free Customer would cease to pay our distribution tariff. This loss would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In addition, some customers in our concession area produce their own energy. Although many of these customers continue to use our distribution system to transport the energy they produce, we cease to collect a distribution tariff if a self-producing customer discontinues its use of our distribution system. Our results of operations will be adversely affected if the number of self-producing customers that do not pay our distribution tariff were to increase. Our operating results depend on prevailing hydrological conditions and the availability of natural gas. The impact of an electricity shortage and related electricity rationing, as in 2001 and 2002, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent on the prevailing hydrological conditions in the geographic region in which we operate. In 2010, according to data from ANEEL, 71% of Brazil’s installed capacity came from hydroelectric generation facilities. Our region is subject to unpredictable hydrological conditions because of non-cyclical deviations in average rainfall. The most recent period of low rainfall was in the years prior to 2001, when the Brazilian government instituted the Rationing Program (the “Rationing Program”), a program to reduce electricity consumption that was in effect from June 1, 2001 to February 28, 2002. A recurrence of poor hydrological conditions that result in a low supply of electricity to the Brazilian market could cause, among other things, the implementation of broad electricity conservation programs, including mandated reductions in electricity consumption. We cannot assure you that periods of severe or sustained below-average rainfall will not adversely affect our future financial results. In addition, if a shortage of natural gas were to occur, this would increase the general demand for energy in the market and therefore increase the risk that a rationing program would be instated. We are subject to comprehensive regulation of our business, which fundamentally affects our financial performance. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by various Brazilian regulatory authorities, particularly ANEEL. ANEEL regulates and oversees various aspects of our business and establishes our tariffs. If we are obliged by ANEEL to make additional and unexpected capital investments and are not allowed to adjust our tariffs accordingly, or if ANEEL modifies the regulations related to such adjustment, we may be adversely affected. In addition, the implementation of our growth strategy, as well as our day-to-day operations may be adversely affected by governmental actions such as changes to current legislation, the termination of federal or state concession programs, changes in the public energy auction process, or a delay in the revision and implementation of new annual tariffs. If we are required to conduct our business in a manner substantially different from our current operations as a result of regulatory changes, our operations and financial results may be adversely affected. The regulatory framework under which we operate is subject to legal challenge. The Brazilian government implemented fundamental changes in the regulation of the power industry under the 2004 legislation known as the New Industry Model Law (Lei do Novo Modelo do Setor Elétrico). Challenges to the constitutionality of the New Industry Model Law are still pending before the Brazilian Supreme Court. If all or part of the New Industry Model Law were held to be unconstitutional, it would have uncertain consequences for the validity of existing regulation and the further development of the regulatory framework. The outcome of the legal proceedings is difficult to predict, but they could have an adverse impact on the entire energy sector, including our business and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We may be forced to purchase energy in the spot market at higher prices if our forecasts for energy demand are not accurate, and we may not be entitled to pass on any increased costs to our final customers. Under the New Industry Model Law, electric energy distributors, including us, must contract to purchase, through public bids conducted by ANEEL, 100% of the forecasted electric energy demand for their respective distribution concession areas, up to five years prior to the actual delivery of electric energy. We cannot guarantee that our forecasts for energy demand in our distribution concession area will be accurate. If our forecasts fall short of actual electricity demand, we may be forced to make up for the shortfall by entering into short-term agreements to purchase electricity in the spot market where we may pay significantly more for energy. In addition, if we underestimate our distribution energy needs, we may be subject to penalties imposed by the Electric Energy Trading Chamber (Câmara de Comercialização de Energia Elétrica, or “CCEE”). In addition, if our forecasts surpass actual demand by more than the allowed margin, we will not be able to pass on to our final customers the cost of the excess energy that we acquire. We generate a portion of our operating revenues from Free Customers who may seek other energy suppliers upon the expiration of their contracts with us. As of December 31, 2010, we had 11 Free Customers representing approximately 2.0% of our operating revenues from energy sales and approximately 2.3% of the total quantity of electricity sold by us. Approximately 12.1% of the megawatts sold under contract to such customers are set to expire in 2011. There can be no assurance that, upon the expiration of these contracts, the Free Customers will purchase energy from us. Our equipment, facilities and operations are subject to numerous environmental and health regulations, which may become more stringent in the future and may result in increased liabilities and increased capital expenditures. Our distribution, transmission and generation activities are subject to comprehensive federal, state and local legislation, as well as supervision by Brazilian governmental agencies that are responsible for the implementation of environmental and health laws and policies. These agencies could take enforcement action against us for our failure to comply with their regulations and with requirements established for the maintenance of our environmental licenses. These actions could result in, among other things, the imposition of fines and revocation of licenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. It is also possible that enhanced environmental and health regulations will force us to allocate capital towards compliance, and consequently, divert funds away from planned investments. Such a diversion could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ANEEL could penalize us for failing to comply with the terms of our concessions or with applicable laws and regulations, and we may not recover the full value of our investment in the event that any of our concessions are terminated. Our concessions are for terms of 20 to 35 years and may be extended if certain conditions are met. In the event that we fail to comply with any term of our concessions or applicable law or regulation, ANEEL may impose penalties on us, which may include warnings, the imposition of potentially substantial fines (in some instances, up to 2% of our revenues in the fiscal year immediately preceding the assessment) and restrictions on our operations, among others. ANEEL may also terminate our concessions prior to the expiration of their terms if we fail to comply with their provisions or if ANEEL determines, through an expropriation proceeding, that terminating our concession would be in the public interest. If ANEEL terminates any of our concessions before their expiration, we would not be able to operate the segment(s) of our business that had been authorized by the concession. Furthermore, any compensation that we may receive from the federal government for the unamortized portion of our investment may not be sufficient for us to recover the full value of our investment. The early termination or non-renewal of any of our concessions or the imposition of severe fines or penalties by ANEEL could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “