Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations You should read the following cautionary statements in conjunction with the factors discussed elsewhere in this and other of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and in materials incorporated by reference in these filings. These cautionary statements are intended to highlight material factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations. Like other companies, we are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad that may affect the general economic climate and our performance and the performance of our customers. Similarly, the price of our common stock is subject to volatility because of fluctuations in general market conditions, differences in our results of operations from estimates and projections generated by the investment community, and other factors beyond our control. Our profit margins may be adversely affected by a number of factors. Our profit margins may be adversely affected in the future by a number of factors, including price reductions, decreases in our shipment volume, reductions in, or obsolescence of, our inventory, shifts in our product mix and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Many of our expenses, particularly those relating to capital equipment and manufacturing overhead, are fixed in the short term. Accordingly, reduced demand for our products and services can cause our fixed production costs to be allocated across reduced production volumes, which can adversely affect our gross margin and profitability, and reduced demand could adversely affect our performance. Our ability to reduce expenses is further constrained because we must continue to invest in research and development to maintain our competitive position and to maintain service and support for our existing global customer base. Cyclicality in the markets we sell to may adversely affect our performance. The semiconductor and life sciences equipment markets have historically been cyclical and subject to significant and often rapid increases or decreases in demand. These changes could adversely affect our results of operations and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our results of operations have been adversely affected, and may be further affected in the future, if demand for semiconductors, or devices that use semiconductors, flat panels or life sciences products decreases or grows at a significantly slower pace than has historically occurred. Subsequent upturns in the markets which we serve have historically been characterized by sudden increased product demand and production capacity constraints. We may have difficulty reacting quickly enough to a sudden upturn in demand for our products and may incur significant expediting and manufacturing costs to meet a rapid increase in customer demand. Global economic crisis and uncertainty in financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. On an ongoing basis, our business may be affected by economic down-turns which could impact the volatility and liquidity of financial and credit markets, the general global economy, and factors such as inflationary or deflationary pressures yielding other market or economic challenges. There can be no assurance that there will not be deterioration in credit and financial markets affecting consumer confidence in economic conditions. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, distributors or customers could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. Similarly, the price of our common stock is subject to volatility due to fluctuations in general market conditions, differences in our results of operations from estimates and projections generated by the investment community, and other factors beyond our control. Our business could be adversely affected if we cannot protect our proprietary technology or if we infringe on the proprietary technology of others. Our proprietary technology supports our ability to compete effectively with other companies. Although we have been awarded, have filed applications for or have been licensed under numerous patents in the United States and other countries, these patents may not fully protect our technology or competitive position. Further, our competitors may apply for and obtain patents that will restrict our ability to make and sell our products. 10 Table of Contents Our competitors may intentionally infringe our patents. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against us in the future. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect our trade secrets or know-how, to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. The defense and prosecution of patent suits are both costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. Outside the United States, in particular, such proceedings can be extremely expensive and their outcome very unpredictable. An adverse outcome in the defense of a patent suit could cause us to lose proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to license rights from third parties or to cease selling our products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology that others may independently develop or otherwise obtain access to. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies could negatively affect our revenues and earnings. The loss of or significant curtailment of purchases by any of our largest customers could adversely affect our results of operations. While we generate revenue from hundreds of customers worldwide, in 2012, approximately 68 percent of our revenues were generated by 20 customers. The loss of or significant curtailment of purchases by one or more of our top customers, including curtailments due to a change in the design or manufacturing sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments may adversely affect our results of operations. Our customers and their customers aggressive management of inventory has already adversely affected our results of operations in the past and may continue to adversely affect future results of operations. Customer driven pricing pressure may adversely affect our average selling prices. We face aggressive cost-containment pressures from our customers. There can be no assurances that we will be able to maintain current prices in the face of continuing pricing pressures. Over time, the average price for our products may decline as the markets for these products become more competitive. Any material reduction in product prices could negatively affect both revenues and profits. Our revenues and earnings could be negatively affected if we cannot anticipate market trends, enhance our existing products and processes, develop and commercialize new products and processes, and identify and consummate strategic acquisitions. We believe that our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to anticipate rapidly changing technologies and market trends, to enhance our existing products and processes, to develop and commercialize new products and processes, and to expand through selected acquisitions of technologies or businesses or other strategic alliances. The microelectronics industry markets we serve undergo frequent technological changes, which in turn create demand for new and improved products and process technologies. We may not be able to improve our existing products and process technologies or to develop and market new products and technologies that will be cost-effective or introduced in a timely manner or accepted in the marketplace. We may not be able to leverage our knowledge to make full use of combinatorial science and HPD capabilities as an effective market offering for our customers. Our failure to develop or introduce enhanced and new products and processes in a timely manner may negatively affect our revenues and earnings, and result in a potential impairment of assets. Management considers, on a continuing basis, potential acquisitions of technologies and businesses and other strategic alliances, some of which may be material to us. However, we cannot be assured that we will identify or succeed in consummating transactions with suitable acquisition candidates or alliance partners in the future. We may have difficulty obtaining the resources or products we need for manufacturing or assembling our products or operating other aspects of our business, which could adversely affect our ability to meet demand for our products and may increase our costs. We have hundreds of suppliers providing various materials that we use in the production of our products and other aspects of our business, and we seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all of these materials. However, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for certain of these materials. The inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of reasonable quality production materials or other supplies could disrupt our production process. In addition, production could be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used in production such as electricity, chemicals, and gases. The unavailability or reduced availability of the materials or resources we use in our business may require us to reduce production of products or may require us to incur additional costs in order to obtain an adequate supply of these materials or resources. Our LifeSciences business is also subject to governmental approval for products that are part of the manufacture of pharmaceuticals. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We face intense competition from a variety of sources, including larger companies. The markets for our products are intensely competitive. A number of domestic and international companies engage in commercial activities in the markets we serve. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and sales resources than we do. In addition, as these industries evolve, other competitors may emerge. To remain competitive, we must continue to invest in and focus upon research and development and product and process innovation. We may not be successful if we cannot compete on: price, technical capabilities, quality, or customer service. Our global manufacturing and sales activities subject us to risks associated with legal, political, economic or other changes. We have facilities in eight countries worldwide and in 2012, approximately 81 percent of our revenues came from sales to companies outside the United States. The global nature of our business and the significance of our foreign operations expose us to certain risks in the countries in which we operate, including political and economic instability, the adequacy of country infrastructure and labor resources, currency fluctuations and controls, compliance with foreign laws and intellectual property protection, changes in export controls, health conditions, and possible disruptions in transportation networks, which could result in an adverse effect on our business operations in such countries and our results of operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchanges rates. Given our current operations and large customer base outside the United States, we employ the use of forward currency exchange contracts and foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges to attempt to minimize the potentially adverse earnings effect from exchange rate fluctuations on our net balance sheet exposures. Nevertheless, in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business, such as the Euro, Japanese Yen, the South Korean Won, and the New Taiwan Dollar, fluctuations can have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our foreign exchange contracts designed as cash flow hedges may be less effective if the forecasted notional amount hedged differs from the actual amount of cash collected. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by climate change and natural events in the locations in which we, our customers or our suppliers operate. We have manufacturing and other operations in locations subject to natural events such as severe weather and earthquakes that could disrupt operations. In addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in such locations. A natural disaster that results in a prolonged disruption to our operations, or our customers’ or suppliers’ operations, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Also, climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our businesses. Incorrect forecasts of customer demand could adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to match inventory and production mix with the product mix needed to fill current orders and orders to be delivered may affect our ability to meet our forecasts. In addition, when responding to customers’ requests for shorter shipment lead times, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customers’ demands. These forecasts are based on multiple assumptions. If we inaccurately forecast customer demand, we may incur expedited shipping costs to deliver products to meet customer demand or hold excess or obsolete inventory that would reduce our profit margins and could adversely affect our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We may have difficulty managing our growth and attracting and retaining highly skilled scientific, technical, managerial and marketing personnel, which could adversely affect our revenues and increase our operating expenses. We have historically experienced periods of growth and intend to grow our business in the future. The management of our growth requires qualified personnel, systems and other resources. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientific, technical, managerial and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel in the industries that we serve is intense, and our competitors are often larger and more established than we are. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. In addition, our expansion may also significantly strain operational, management, financial, sales and marketing and other resources. To manage growth effectively, we must continue to enhance and integrate our information technology infrastructure, systems and controls and successfully expand, train and manage our employee base. We may not be able to manage this expansion effectively, including by providing satisfactory levels of customer service and technical support. Inability to manage our growth and to attract and retain skilled personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We engage in business combinations and asset acquisitions, and may encounter difficulties integrating acquired businesses with our current operations; therefore, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. We seek to grow, in part, through strategic business combinations and asset acquisitions. In the past several years, we have made certain acquisitions intended to complement and expand our business, and may continue to do so in the future. The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate assets and retain and integrate key personnel acquired in these transactions, apply our internal controls to these acquired businesses, and cooperate with our strategic partners. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, applying our internal controls processes to these acquisitions, and in managing strategic investments. We may also have difficulty in integrating and managing new IT environments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. To fully achieve the anticipated benefits of the SDS Direct transaction will require a certain amount of capital spending associated with expanding our manufacturing facilities and obtaining new business licenses and permits in certain countries. We may have difficulty transitioning responsibilities away from Matheson causing the transition to be more expensive than anticipated, or potentially causing business interruptions. We may also encounter issues in obtaining the necessary licenses and permits in certain countries making it difficult to achieve the full revenue and cash flow benefits of this transaction in a timely manner. We face the risk of product liability claims. The manufacture and sale of our products, which include thin film, other toxic materials and packages for life sciences applications, involve the risk of product liability claims. In addition, a failure of one of our products at a customer site could interrupt the business operations of the customer. Our existing insurance coverage limits may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities that we might incur in connection with the manufacture and sale of our products if a successful product liability claim or series of product liability claims were brought against us. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security from cyber-attacks, employee social media use on our computers or through failure of our internet service providers and other cloud computing service providers to successfully secure their own systems could disrupt our operations causing customer communication and order management issues, unintentional disclosure of customer, employee and proprietary information, and disruption in transaction processing which could affect our reputation and reporting of financial results. While management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing sophisticated network security, hiring competent personnel and establishing prudent internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 13 Table of Contents Our business is potentially subject to substantial liabilities for failure to comply with environmental regulations. We use, generate and discharge toxic or otherwise hazardous chemicals and waste in our manufacturing, processing and research and development activities. As a result, we are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the storage, use and disposal of these materials. Our failure to comply with present or future laws could result in fines or other liabilities being imposed on us, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. In addition, under federal and state statutes and regulations, a government agency may seek to recover its response costs and/or require future remedial measures from both operators and owners of property where releases of hazardous substances may have occurred (including releases by prior occupants) or are ongoing, and for which only partial indemnification may be available in some cases. Our activities may also result in our being subject to additional regulation. Such regulations could require us to acquire significant additional equipment or to incur other substantial expenses to comply with environmental laws. Our failure to control the use of hazardous substances could subject us to substantial financial liabilities. Our financial results or financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, business combinations, asset impairment, inventories, fair value measurements, self-insurance, tax matters and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in taxation. Because we are a multi-national company, we have a business presence in many countries and, as a result, are subject to taxation and audit by a number of taxing authorities. Tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our results of operations could be affected by market opportunities or decisions we make that cause us to increase or decrease operations in one or more countries, or by changes in applicable tax rates or audits by the taxing authorities in countries in which we operate. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations in various locations that govern the determination of which is the appropriate jurisdiction to decide when and how much profit has been earned and is subject to taxation in that jurisdiction. Changes in these laws and regulations could affect the locations where we are deemed to earn income, which could in turn affect our results of operations. We have deferred tax assets on our balance sheet. Changes in applicable tax laws and regulations could affect our ability to realize those deferred tax assets, which could also affect our results of operations. Each quarter we forecast our tax liability based on our forecast of our performance for the year. If that performance forecast changes, our forecasted tax liability may change. Compliance with changing corporate governance regulations and public disclosures may result in additional risks and exposures. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, and new regulations from the SEC, have created uncertainty for public companies such as ours. One such example is the current ambiguity regarding the breadth and pace of adoption of IFRS whether by convergence or SEC mandate. These laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices and our commitment to maintaining high standards with regard thereto. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased selling, general, and administrative expenses and significant management time and attention. We are also monitoring the evolving establishment of SEC rules in compliance with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) to determine the potential future effect on our disclosures and shareholders rights. One example of incremental regulation is the newly promulgated provision of Dodd-Frank regarding the disclosure of Conflict Minerals beginning in 2014. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 