ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results could be adversely affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, the most significant of which are described below, but in no particular order. Risks Related to the Nature and Operations of Our Business The state and condition of the global financial markets and the U.S. economy may have an unpredictable impact on our business and financial condition. The global equity and credit markets continue to experience high levels of volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and limited credit capacity for certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. In addition, deterioration in the global and U.S. economies has produced a drop in consumer confidence and spending, which has impacted corporate profits and resulted in cutbacks in advertising budgets. If the economic deterioration and/or current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience a further adverse effect, which may be material, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to access capital. For example, any worsening of the economy, continuing geopolitical uncertainty, a continuation of market volatility or further weakness in consumer spending could continue to adversely impact the overall demand for advertising. Such a result could have a negative effect on our revenues and results of operations. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Any worsening or deterioration of the economy’s ongoing gradual recovery could negatively impact our ability to meet our cash needs and our ability to maintain compliance with our debt covenants. We believe we will be able to maintain compliance with the covenants contained in our amended and restated senior credit facility for the foreseeable future. This belief is based on our most recent revenue, operating income and cash flow projections. Our projections, however, are highly dependent on the continuation of the recently improving economic and advertising environments, and any adverse fluctuations, or other unforeseen circumstances, may negatively impact our operations beyond those assumed by management. If economic conditions do not continue to improve, or deteriorate, or if other adverse factors outside our control arise, our operations could be negatively impacted, which could prevent us from maintaining compliance with our debt covenants. If it appears that we could not meet our liquidity needs or that noncom pliance with debt covenants is likely, we would implement remedial measures (as we have done in the past), which could include operating cost and capital expenditure reductions and deferrals, seeking our share of distributions from TV One to the extent not already received (which cannot be assured) and/or further de-leveraging actions, which may include other debt repayment, subject to our available liquidity and contractual ability to make such repurchases. We have incurred net losses over the past three years which could continue into the future. We have reported net losses in our consolidated statements of operations over the past three years, due mostly in part to recording non-cash impairment charges for write-downs to radio broadcasting licenses and goodwill, net losses incurred for discontinued operations and revenue declines caused by weakened advertising demand resulting from the current economic crisis. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we experienced net losses of approximately $28.6 million, $52.9 million, and $302.9 million, respectively. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition and could be exacerbated given the current economic climate. If these trends continue in the future, they could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. Our revenue is substantially dependent on spending and allocation decisions by advertisers, and seasonality and/or weakening economic conditions may have an impact upon our business. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from sales of advertisements and program sponsorships to local and national advertisers. Cutbacks or changes in advertisers’ spending priorities and/or allocations across different types of media may affect our results. We do not obtain long-term commitments from our advertisers and advertisers may cancel, reduce or postpone advertisements without penalty, which could adversely affect our revenue. Seasonal net revenue fluctuations are common in the media industries and are due primarily to fluctuations in advertising expenditures by local and national advertisers. In addition, advertising revenues in even-numbered years tend to benefit from advertising placed by candidates for political offices. The effects of such seasonality, combined with the severe structural changes that have occu rred in the U.S. economy, make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter and may adversely affect operating results. 18 Advertising expenditures also tend to be cyclical and reflect general economic conditions both nationally and locally. Because we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the sale of advertising, a decline or delay in advertising expenditures could reduce our revenues or hinder our ability to increase these revenues. Advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the automotive, financial, entertainment and retail industries, represent a significant portion of our advertising revenues. Structural changes (such as the decreased number of automotive dealers and brands) and business failures in these industries have affected our revenues and continued structural changes, consolidation or business failures in any of these industries could have significant further impact on our revenues. Any pol itical, economic, social or technological change resulting in a significant reduction in the advertising spending of these sectors could adversely affect our advertising revenues or its ability to increase such revenues. In addition, because many of the products and services offered by our advertisers are largely discretionary items, weakening economic conditions could reduce the consumption of such products and services and, thus, reduce advertising for such products and services. Changes in advertisers’ spending priorities during economic cycles (such as the current cycle) may also affect our results. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities also could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. Pricing for advertising may continue to face downward pressure. During 2009 and 2010, in response to weakness and fluctuations in the economy, advertisers increasingly purchased lower-priced inventory rather than higher-priced inventory, and increasingly demanded lower pricing, in addition to increasingly purchasing later and through advertising inventory from third-party advertising networks. If advertisers continue to demand lower-priced inventory and/or otherwise continue to put downward pressure on pricing, our operating margins and ability to generate revenue could be further adversely affected. Our success is dependent upon audience acceptance of our content, particularly our radio programs, which is difficult to predict. Media and radio content production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of media content or a radio program, and the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with the content or program, depend primarily upon their acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of content or a program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict. Finally, the costs of content and programming may change significantly if new performance royalt ies (such as those that have been proposed by members of Congress from time to time) are imposed upon radio broadcasters or internet operators and such changes could have a material impact upon our business. Ratings for broadcast stations and traffic or visitors on a particular website are also factors that are weighed when advertisers determine which outlets to use and in determining the advertising rates that the outlet receives. Poor ratings or traffic levels can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising revenues. For example, if there is an event causing a change of programming at one of our stations, there could be no assurance that any replacement programming would generate the same level of ratings, revenues or profitability as the previous programming. In addition, changes in ratings methodology and technology could adversely impact our ratings and negatively affect our advertising revenues. Arbitron, the leading supplier of ratings data for U.S. radio markets, has developed technology to passively collect data for its ratings service. The Portable People MeterTM (the “PPMTM”) is a small, pager-sized device that does not require any active manipulation by the end user and is capable of automatically measuring radio, television, Internet, satellite radio and satellite television signals that are encoded for the service by the broadcaster. All of our market ratings are being measured by the PPMTM with the exception of Richmond. Due to its smaller market size, Richmond will remain on the diary methodology. In each market, there has been a compression in the relative ratings of all stations in the market, enhancing the competitive pressure within the market for advertising dollars. In addition, ratings for certain stations when measured by the PPMTM as opposed to the traditional diary methodology can be materially different. Because of the competitive factors we face and the introduction of the PPMTM, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising revenue. A disproportionate share of our net revenue comes from radio stations in a small number of geographic markets and from Reach Media. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 83.5% of our net revenue was generated from the sale of advertising in our core radio business. Within our core radio business, four of the 16 markets in which we operate radio stations accounted for approximately 54.1% of our radio station net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. Revenue from the operations of Reach Media, along with revenue from both the Houston and Washington, DC markets accounted for approximately 39.2% of our total consolidated net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. Adverse events or conditions (economic or otherwise) could lead to declines in the contribution of Reach Media or to declines in one or more of the significant contributing markets (Houston, Washington, DC, Atlanta and Baltimore), which could have a material adver se effect on our overall financial performance and results of operations. 19 Our relationship with a significant customer has changed and we no longer have a guaranteed level of revenue from that customer. Historically, we derived a significant portion of our net revenue from a single customer, Radio Networks, LLC (“Radio Networks”), a media representation firm which is owned by Citadel. Prior to January 1, 2010, Reach Media, a subsidiary of which we own 53.5%, derived a substantial majority of its net revenue from a sales representative agreement (the “Sales Representation Agreement”) with Radio Networks. The Sales Representation Agreement called for Radio Networks to act as Reach Media’s sales representative primarily for advertising airing on over 106 affiliate radio stations broadcasting the Tom Joyner Morning Show, and to also serve as its sales representative for internet and events sales. The Sales Representation Agreement provided for Radio Networks to retain a porti on of Reach Media’s advertising revenues only after satisfying certain minimum revenue guarantee obligations to Reach Media. Further, but to a lesser extent, revenue for Company owned radio stations was also generated from Radio Networks for barter agreements whereby we provided advertising time in exchange for programming content (the “RN Barter Revenue”). Net revenue attributable to the Sales Representation Agreement and the RN Barter Revenue began to account for more than 10% of our total consolidated net revenues as of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 accounted for 11.9%, 10.6% and 10.8%, respectively, of our total consolidated net revenues. The Sales Representation Agreement expired in accordance with its terms on December 31, 2009. Reach Media continues to retain Radio Networks in a sales representation capacity; however, Radio Networks is now compensated on a commission basis and Reach Media does not benefit from any guaranteed revenue under its current arrangement with Radio Networks. Further, Reach Media has established its own sales force that is primarily selling in-program advertising inventory. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to replace the lost guaranteed revenue with revenues from new or other existing customers. We may lose audience share and advertising revenue to our competitors. Our radio stations and other media properties compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other radio stations and station groups and other media such as broadcast television, newspapers, magazines, cable television, satellite television, satellite radio, outdoor advertising, the internet and direct mail. Adverse changes in audience ratings, internet traffic and market shares could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Larger media companies with more financial resources than we have may enter the markets in which we operate causing competitive pressure. Further, other media and broadcast companies may change their programming format or engage in aggressive promotional campaigns to compete directly with our media properties for audiences and advertisers. This competition could result in lower rati ngs or traffic and, hence, lower advertising revenue for us or cause us to increase promotion and other expenses and, consequently, lower our earnings and cash flow. Changes in population, demographics, audience tastes and other factors beyond our control, including the impact of new audience measurement technology, could also cause changes in audience ratings or market share. Failure by us to respond successfully to these changes could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising revenue. If we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate businesses pursuant to our diversification strategy, our business and prospects may be adversely impacted. We are pursuing a strategy of acquiring and investing in other forms of media that complement our core radio business in an effort to grow and diversify our business and revenue streams. This strategy depends on our ability to find suitable opportunities and obtain acceptable financing. Negotiating transactions and integrating an acquired business could result in significant costs, including significant use of management’s time and resources. Our diversification strategy partially depends on our ability to identify attractive media properties at reasonable prices and to divest properties that are no longer strategic to our business. Further, entering new businesses may subject us to additional risk factors. Some of the material risks that could hinder our ability to implement this strategy include: · continued economic fluctuations; · inability to find buyers for media properties we target for sale at attractive prices due to decreasing market prices for radio stations or the inability to obtain credit in the current economic environment; · failure or delays in completing acquisitions or divestitures due to difficulties in obtaining required regulatory approval, including possible difficulties by the seller or buyer in obtaining antitrust approval for acquisitions in markets where we already own multiple stations or establishing compliance with broadcast ownership rules; · reduction in the number of suitable acquisition targets due to increased competition for acquisitions; · we may lose key employees of acquired companies or stations; · difficulty in integrating operations and systems and managing a diverse media business; · failure of some acquisitions to prove profitable or generate sufficient cash flow; and · inability to finance acquisitions on acceptable terms, through incurring debt or issuing stock. 20 We can provide no assurance that our diversification strategy will be successful. Reach Media noncontrolling interest shareholders’ put rights may have an impact upon our business and indebtedness. On February 28, 2012 and each anniversary thereafter, for a 30-day period after each such date, the noncontrolling interest shareholders of Reach Media have the right to require Reach Media to purchase all or a portion of their shares at the then current fair market value for such shares. The purchase price for such shares may be paid in cash and/or registered shares of our Class D Common Stock, at our discretion. If we chose to pay for the noncontrolling interest in cash, our ability to fund business operations, new acquisitions or new business initiatives could be limited. We must respond to the rapid changes in technology, services and standards in order to remain competitive. Technological standards across our media properties are evolving and new media technologies are emerging. We cannot assure you that we will have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services to compete with these new technologies. Several new media technologies are being, or have been, developed, including the following: · satellite delivered digital audio radio service, which has resulted in the introduction of several new satellite radio services with sound quality equivalent to that of compact discs; · audio programming by cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, internet content providers and other digital audio broadcast formats; and · digital audio and video content available for listening and/or viewing on the internet and/or available for downloading to portable devices (including audio via Wi-Fi, mobile phones, smart phones, netbooks and similar portable devices, WiMAX, the Internet and MP3 players). New media has resulted in fragmentation in the advertising market, and we cannot predict the effect, if any, that additional competition arising from new technologies may have on the radio broadcasting industry, our multi-media business or on our financial condition and results of operations, which may be adversely affected if we are not able to adapt successfully to these new media technologies. The loss of key personnel, including certain on-air talent, could disrupt the management and operations of our business. Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers and other key employees, including certain on-air personalities. We believe that the combination of skills and experience possessed by our executive officers could be difficult to replace, and that the loss of one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on us, including the impairment of our ability to execute our business strategy. In addition, several of our on-air personalities and syndicated radio programs hosts have large loyal audiences in their respective broadcast areas and may be significantly responsible for the ranking of a station. The loss of such on-air personalities could impact the ability of the station to sell advertising and our ability to derive revenue from syndicating programs hosted by them. We cannot be assured that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current audiences or ratings. As a part of our diversification strategy, we have placed emphasis on building our internet businesses. Failure to effectuate this strategy may adversely affect our brands and business prospects. Our diversification strategy depends to a significant degree upon the development of our internet businesses. In order for our internet businesses to grow and succeed over the long-term, we must, among other things: · significantly increase our online traffic and revenue; · attract and retain a base of frequent visitors to our web sites; · expand the content, products and tools we offer on our web sites; · respond to competitive developments while maintaining a distinct identity across each of our online brands; · attract and retain talent for critical positions; · maintain and form relationships with strategic partners to attract more consumers; · continue to develop and upgrade our technologies; and · bring new product features to market in a timely manner. We cannot assure that we will be successful in achieving these and other necessary objectives. If we are not successful in achieving these objectives, our business, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. 21 If our interactive unit does not continue to develop and offer compelling and differentiated content, products and services, our advertising revenues could be adversely affected. In order to attract internet consumers and generate increased activity on our internet properties, we believe that we must offer compelling and differentiated content, products and services. However, acquiring, developing and offering such content, products and services may require significant costs and time to develop, while consumer tastes may be difficult to predict and are subject to rapid change. If we are unable to provide content, products and services that are sufficiently attractive to our internet users, we may not be able to generate the increases in activity necessary to generate increased advertising revenues. In addition, although we have access to certain content provided by our other businesses, we may be required to make substantial payments to license such content. Many of our content arrangements with thi rd parties are non-exclusive, so competitors may be able to offer similar or identical content. If we are not able to acquire or develop compelling content and do so at reasonable prices, or if other companies offer content that is similar to that provided by our interactive unit, we may not be able to attract and increase the engagement of internet consumers on our internet properties. Continued growth in our internet advertising business also depends on our ability to continue offering a competitive and distinctive range of advertising products and services for advertisers and publishers and our ability to maintain or increase prices for our advertising products and services. Continuing to develop and improve these products and services may require significant time and costs. If we cannot continue to develop and improve its advertising products and services or if prices for its advertising products and services decrease, our internet advertising revenues could be adversely affected. More individuals are using devices other than personal and laptop computers to access and use the internet, and, if we cannot make our products and services available and attractive to consumers via these alternative devices, our internet advertising revenues could be adversely affected. Internet users are increasingly accessing and using the internet through devices other than a personal or laptop computer, such as personal digital assistants or mobile telephones, which differ from computers with respect to memory, functionality, resolution and screen size. In order for consumers to access and use our products and services via these alternative devices, we must ensure that our products and services are technologically compatible with such devices. We also must secure arrangements with device manufacturers and wireless carriers in order to have placement and functionality on the alternative devices and to more effectively reach consumers. If we cannot effectively make our products and services available on alternative devices, fewer internet consumers may access and use our products and services and our advertising re venue may be negatively affected. Unrelated third parties may claim that we infringe on their rights based on the nature and content of information posted on websites maintained by us. We host internet services that enable individuals to exchange information, generate content, comment on our content, and engage in various online activities. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within the U.S. and internationally. While we monitor postings to such websites, claims may be brought against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that may be posted online or generated by our users. Our defense of such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources. If we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brands could be adversely affected. We currently hold various domain name registrations relating to our brands, including radio-one.com and interactiveone.com. The registration and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to register or maintain relevant domain names. We may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from registering domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brands, and make it more difficult for users to find our websites a nd our services. 22 Future asset impairment to the carrying values of our FCC licenses and goodwill could adversely impact our results of operations and net worth. FCC licenses and goodwill totaled approximately $800.1 million, or 80.1% of our total assets, at December 31, 2010, and is primarily attributable to accounting for acquisitions in past years. We are required by Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 350, “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other,” to test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually, which we have traditionally done in the fourth quarter, or on an interim basis when events or changes in circumstances suggest impairment may have occurred. Impairment is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset over its fair value. Impairment may result from deterioration in our performance, changes in anticipated future cash flows, changes in business plans, adverse economic or market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, or other factors beyond our control. The amount of any impairment must be expensed as a charge to operations. Fair values of FCC licenses and goodwill have been estimated using the income approach, which involves a 10-year model that incorporates several judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and terminal values. We also utilize a market-based approach to evaluate the reasonableness of our fair value estimates. There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analysis. As discussed in Note 5 to our audited financial statements included elsewhere in this prospectus, the lingering economic downturn and limited credit environment has weakened advertising demand in general, and has led to declining radio and online advertising, reduced growth expectations, deteriorating profits and cash flows, debt downgrades and fewer sales transactions with lower multiples. We performed interim impairment testing as of February 2010, May 2010 and August 2010 for Reach Media due to declining revenue projections and actual results which did not meet budget. The results of these interim tests indicated that the carrying value for Reach Media had not been impaired. The results of our annual impairment testing as of October 1, 2010 were to record impairment charges of approximately $19.9 million again st radio broadcasting licenses in one of our 16 radio markets and our year end impairment testing resulted in the impairment of goodwill for Reach Media in the amount of $16.1 million. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded impairment charges against radio broadcasting licenses and goodwill of approximately $36.1 million, $65.6 million and $420.2 million, respectively. Changes in certain events or circumstances could result in changes to our estimated fair values, and may result in further write-downs to the carrying values of these assets. Additional impairment charges could adversely affect our financial results, financial ratios and could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future. We could incur adverse effects from our voluntary review of stock option grants and resulting financial restatements. As described in the Explanatory Note and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements filed with our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded additional stock-based compensation expense and related tax effects with regard to certain past stock option grants, and restated certain previously filed financial statements included in that Form 10-K. In February 2007, we received a letter of informal inquiry from the SEC regarding the review of our stock option accounting. While we have not heard further from the SEC on this matter to date, should the SEC further inquire, we would fully cooperate with the SEC’s inquiry. We are unable to predict whether a formal inquiry will be initiated or what consequences any further inquiry may have on us. We are unable to predict the likelihood of or pote ntial outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock option practices. The resolution of these matters could be time-consuming and expensive, further distract management from other business concerns and harm our business. Furthermore, if we were subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business and financial condition. While we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our historical stock option grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk we may have to further restate prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. 23 Risks Related to Regulation Our business depends on maintaining our licenses with the FCC. We could be prevented from operating a radio station if we fail to maintain its license. Within our primary business, we are required to maintain radio broadcasting licenses issued by the FCC. These licenses are ordinarily issued for a maximum term of eight years and are renewable. Our radio broadcasting licenses expire at various times beginning October 1, 2011 through August 1, 2014. Interested third-parties may challenge our renewal applications. In addition, we are subject to extensive and changing regulation by the FCC with respect to such matters as programming, indecency standards, technical operations, employment and business practices. If we or any of our significant stockholders, officers, or directors violate the FCC’s rules and regulations or the Communications Act of 1944, as amended (the “Communications Act”), or is convicted of a felony, the FCC may commence a proceeding to impose fines or sanctions upon us. Examples of possible sanctions include the imposition of fines, the renewal of one or more of our broadcasting licenses for a term of fewer than eight years or the revocation of our broadcast licenses. If the FCC were to issue an order denying a license renewal application or revoking a license, we would be required to cease operating the radio station covered by the license only after we had exhausted administrative and judicial review without success. There is significant uncertainty regarding the FCC’s media ownership rules, and such rules could restrict our ability to acquire radio stations. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies limit the number of broadcasting properties that any person or entity may own (directly or by attribution) in any market and require FCC approval for transfers of control and assignments of licenses. The FCC’s media ownership rules remain in flux and subject to further agency and court proceedings. On May 25, 2010, the FCC instituted an inquiry as part of its 2010 quadrennial review of its media ownership rules to seek public comment on and evaluate such rules to determine whether any changes are warranted. See the information contained in “Business—Federal Regulation of Radio Broadcasting.” In addition to the FCC media ownership rules, the outside media interests of our officers and directors could limit our ability to acquire stations. The filing of petitions or complaints against Radio One or any FCC licensee from which we are acquiring a station could result in the FCC delaying the grant of, or refusing to grant or imposing conditions on its consent to the assignment or transfer of control of licenses. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies also impose limitations on non-U.S. ownership and voting of our capital stock. Increased enforcement by the FCC of its indecency rules against the broadcast industry could adversely affect our business operations. In 2004, the FCC indicated that it was enhancing its enforcement efforts relating to the regulation of indecency. Congress has increased the penalties for broadcasting indecent programming and potentially subject broadcasters to license revocation, renewal or qualification proceedings in the event that they broadcast indecent material. In addition, the FCC’s heightened focus on the indecency regulatory scheme, against the broadcast industry generally, may encourage third parties to oppose our license renewal applications or applications for consent to acquire broadcast stations. The change in administration at the federal level could foster a change in the FCC’s enforcement posture. See “Vigorous enforcement or enhancement of FCC indecency and other program content rules against the broadcast and cable ind ustries could have an adverse effect on TV One’s businesses and results of operations” below. Changes in current federal regulations could adversely affect our business operations. Congress and the FCC have considered, and may in the future consider and adopt, new laws, regulations and policies that could, directly or indirectly, affect the profitability of our broadcast stations. In particular, Congress is considering a revocation of radio’s exemption from paying royalties to performing artists for use of their recordings (radio already pays a royalty to songwriters, composers and publishers). In addition, commercial radio broadcasters and entities representing artists are negotiating agreements that could result in broadcast stations paying royalties to artists. A requirement to pay additional royalties could have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. New or changing federal, state or international privacy legislation or regulation could hinder the growth of our internet business. A variety of federal and state laws govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data that our internet business uses to operate its services and to deliver certain advertisements to its customers, as well as the technologies used to collect such data. Not only are existing privacy-related laws in these jurisdictions evolving and subject to potentially disparate interpretation by governmental entities, new legislative proposals affecting privacy are now pending at both the federal and state level in the U.S. Changes to the interpretation of existing law or the adoption of new privacy-related requirements could hinder the growth of our internet business. Also, a failure or perceived failure to comply with such laws or requirements or with our own policies and procedures could result in significant liabilities , including a possible loss of consumer or investor confidence or a loss of customers or advertisers. Our operation of various real properties and facilities could lead to environmental liability. As the owner, lessee or operator of various real properties and facilities, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Historically, compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance, however, that compliance with existing or new environmental laws and regulations will not require us to make significant expenditures of funds. 24 Risks Related to Our Corporate Governance Structure Two common stockholders have a majority voting interest in Radio One and have the power to control matters on which our common stockholders may vote, and their interests may conflict with yours. As of December 31, 2010, our Chairperson and her son, our President and CEO, collectively held approximately 92% of the outstanding voting power of our common stock. As a result, our Chairperson and our CEO control our management and policies and most decisions involving or impacting upon Radio One, including transactions involving a change of control, such as a sale or merger. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of our other stockholders and our debtholders. In addition, certain covenants in our debt instruments require that our Chairperson and the CEO maintain a specified ownership and voting interest in Radio One, and prohibit other parties’ voting interests from exceeding specified amounts. In addition, the TV One joint venture agreement provides for adverse consequences to Radio One in the event our Chairperson and CEO fail to maintain a specified ownership and voting interest in us. Our Chairperson and the CEO have agreed to vote their shares together in elections of members to the board of directors of Radio One. Further, we are a “controlled company” under rules governing the listing of our securities on the NASDAQ Stock Market because more than 50% of our voting power is held by our Chairperson and the CEO. Therefore, we are not subject to NASDAQ Stock Market listing rules that would otherwise require us to have: (i) a majority of independent directors on the board; (ii) a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; (iii) a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors; (iv) compensation of our executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; and (v) director nominees selected, or recommended for the board’s selection, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Risks Related to our Substantial Indebtedness Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $642.2 million of total indebtedness, which included approximately $747,000 related to our 2013 Notes and $286.8 million related to our 2016 Notes. In addition, subject to restrictions in our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our notes, we may incur additional indebtedness. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: · it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our senior credit facility and other indebtedness; · our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; · we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness, which may reduce the funds available to us for other purposes, such as capital expenditures; · we may be limited in our ability to borrow additional funds; · we may have a higher level of indebtedness than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in our industry, including increased competition; and · we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We expect to obtain the money to pay our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our notes, our senior credit facility and other debt from cash flow from our operations, including our interest in TV One via distributions that may be made by TV One. Our ability to meet our expenses thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. Further, as noted below, TV One recently incurred substantial indebtedness. Our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other o bligations. If we do not have enough liquidity, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. We may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our notes may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives. 25 Our independent registered public accounting firm recently issued an opinion expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern and, while the issues giving rise to that opinion have been cured, a similar issue could arise in the future. In its report dated August 23, 2010, which was included in our Amended Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2009, filed August 23, 2010, our independent registered public accounting firm issued an opinion expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, given certain covenant violations under our loan agreements which could have resulted in significant portions of our outstanding debt becoming callable by our lenders. These violations were cured as a part of certain refinancing transactions more fully described in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed, December 1, 2010. Having cured these violations, our audited financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going conce rn (which contemplates the realization of assets and discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business for the foreseeable future). Our amended and restated senior credit facility matures on June 30, 2012. Under United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP"), debt coming due within one year must be classified as a current liability. Therefore, unless we have refinanced our amended and restated senior credit facility prior to July 1, 2011, we will be required to reclassify the senior credit facility as current indebtedness under U.S. GAAP. We are currently evaluating a number of alternatives with respect to the upcoming maturity of the amended and restated senior credit facility. Our ability to consummate any such alternatives will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, c ontractual restrictions and other factors, some of which may be beyond our control. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Company will successfully enter into any definitive agreements for such alternatives. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants contained in our senior credit facility or the indentures governing our notes could lead to an event of default under such instruments. Our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our notes impose significant covenants on us. The agreement governing our senior credit facility also requires us to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. Our breach of any restrictive covenants in the agreement governing our senior credit facility or the indentures governing our notes or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under the agreement governing our senior credit facility. If a default occurs, the lenders under our senior credit facility may elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with all accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable which would result in an event of default under our notes. The lenders would also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under our senior credit facility will also have the right to proceed against our collateral, including our available cash and owned real property, granted to them to secure the indebtedness. If the indebtedness under our senior credit facility or our notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness. Despite current anticipated indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness, including additional secured or unsecured indebtedness. Although our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our notes contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to important exceptions and qualifications. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness which is permitted under these agreements, the risks that we and they now face as a result of our leverage could intensify. If our financial condition or operating results deteriorate, our relations with our creditors, including the holders of our notes, the lenders under our senior credit facility and our suppliers, may be materially and adversely affected. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our senior credit facility and notes, and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including our notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including our notes, on or before the maturity thereof, reduce or delay capital investments or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we may not be able to effect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including our notes, will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing o f our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments, including the indentures governing our notes offered hereby, may limit or prevent us from taking any of these actions. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of our notes. 26 Restrictive covenants in our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our notes may limit our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to pursue our business strategies. Our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our notes contain, and any future indebtedness of ours may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that we believe may be in our interest. Our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our notes, among other things, limit our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; · pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our stock or prepay or redeem certain indebtedness; · sell assets and issue capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; · incur liens; · enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · engage in new lines of business; · consolidate, merge or sell our assets; · make investments; and · engage in certain intercompany matters. Also, the senior credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with certain financial covenants at all times and a minimum liquidity covenant that is tested weekly. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios. The restrictions contained in our senior credit facility and in the indentures governing our notes could adversely affect our ability to: · finance our operations; · make needed capital expenditures; · make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances; · withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general; · engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our interest; and · plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants could, or our inability to comply with the maintenance financial covenants would, result in an event of default under our senior credit facility. In each of 2006, 2007 and 2010, we were required to enter into amendments to our senior credit facility to modify or waive compliance with financial covenants thereunder. If, when required, we are unable to repay or refinance our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our senior credit facility, or if a default otherwise occurs that is not cured or waived, the lenders under the senior credit facility could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable or institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borro wings under our senior credit facility. Should the outstanding obligations under our senior credit facility be accelerated and become due and payable because of our failure to comply with the applicable debt covenants in the future, we would be required to search for alternative measures to finance current and ongoing obligations of our business. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our ability to obtain future financing or to sell assets could be adversely affected because a very large majority of our assets have been secured as collateral under our senior credit facility. In addition, our financial results, our substantial indebtedness and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of our financing. In addition, there are other situations (including certain changes in the ownership and voting interest in Radio One of our Chairperson and the CEO) where our debt may be a ccelerated and we may be unable to repay such debt. Any of these scenarios could adversely impact our liquidity and results of operations. 27 Our ability to meet our obligations under our debt, in part, depends on the earnings and cash flows of our subsidiaries and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance or repay funds to us. We conduct a significant portion of our business operations through our subsidiaries and joint ventures. In servicing payments to be made on our indebtedness, we will rely, in part, on cash flows from these subsidiaries and joint ventures, mainly dividend payments. The ability of these subsidiaries and joint ventures to make dividend payments to our Company will be affected by, among other factors, the obligations of these entities to their creditors (including TV One’s new creditors), requirements of corporate and other law, and restrictions contained in agreements entered into by or relating to these entities. For example, the joint venture agreement (and related agreements) that created and governs TV One contains certain limited conditions under which distributions may be made. We must refinance existing indebtedness prior to the maturity of our notes and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect. Our senior credit facility is scheduled to mature on June 30, 2012. While we expect to refinance this indebtedness prior to or upon maturity, we may not be able to refinance this indebtedness, or refinancing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. The financial terms or covenants of any new credit facility and/or other indebtedness may not be as favorable as those under our senior credit facility. Our ability to complete a refinancing of the loans under our senior credit facility prior to its respective maturity is subject to a number of conditions beyond our control. If we are unable to refinance the indebtedness under our senior credit facility, our alternatives would consist of negotiating an extension of our senior credit facility with the lenders and seeking or raising new capi tal. If we were unsuccessful, the lenders under our senior credit facility could demand repayment of the indebtedness owed to them on the relevant maturity date. As a result, our ability to pay the principal and interest on our notes would be adversely affected. Our corporate debt rating has suffered downgrades in the past and we could suffer further downgrades. On a continuing basis, credit rating agencies such as Moody’s and S&P evaluate our debt. On November 24, 2010, S&P raised the Company’s long-term corporate credit rating to “CCC+” from “SD” with a positive rating outlook. In addition, S&P raised our issue-level rating on our senior secured debt to “B” from 'CCC+”. S&P also rated the Company's new 12.5%/15% senior subordinated notes due 2016 “CCC-”, rated the remaining portion of the Company's existing 63/8% senior subordinated notes due 2013 “CCC-” and affirmed a “CCC-”iss ue-level rating on the remaining portion of the company's existing 87/8% senior subordinated notes. S&P’s actions reflected our successful amendment of our senior secured credit facilities and an exchange offer for its subordinated debt. S&P noted, the transactions eliminated near-term refinancing risk of our senior secured debt, which was set to mature January 1, 2011, if we were unable to refinance its 87/8% senior subordinated notes prior to that date. S&P further noted that following the amendment, we were able to cure the default on our 63/8% senior subordinated notes by paying its missed August 15, 2010 interest payment. On December 8, 2010, Moody’s confirmed the Company’s Caa1 Corporate Family Rating (“CFR”), assigned a B1 rating to the Company’s credit facilities and assigned a Caa3 rating to the Company’s new 12.5%/15% senior subordinated notes due 2016. These actions reflected our successful amendment of our senior secured credit facilities and an exchange offer for its subordinated debt on November 24, 2010. On June 17, 2010, Moody’s placed on review the Company and its debt for a possible upgrade. On August 18, 2010, Moody’s placed us on review for a possible downgrade on our corporate family rating and probability of default rating. The review was driven by our announcement that the lenders under our Senior Credit Facility blocked our August 16, 2010 interest payment on the 2013 Notes. The lenders under our Senior Credit Facility had the ability to block the interest payment as we were in violation of the total leverage covenant under our Senior Credit Facility. On September 20, 2010, Moody’s repositioned our probability of default rating to Caa2/LD from Caa2, following the expiration of the 30-day grace period under the 2013 Notes. On July 20, 2010, S&P revised our CCC+ corporate credit rating outlook from positive to developing. Revision was due to uncertainty surrounding the timing and structure of a potential refinancing. On June 17, 2010 S&P revised our CCC+ corporate credit rating outlook from negative to positive. Revision was due to our announcement of potential refinancing transactions and the proposed increase of our ownership percentage in TV One. On August 24, 2010, S&P lowered our corporate credit rating from CCC+ to SD and lowered the issue-level rating on our 2013 Notes from CCC- to D. On June 24, 2009, S&P lowered our corporate credit rating to CCC+ from B- and the issue-level rating on our $800.0 million secured credit facility to CCC+ from B-. On March 3, 2009, S&P lowered our corporate credit rating to B- from B and the issue-level rating on our $800.0 million secured credit facility to B- from BB-. While noting that our rating outlook was negative, the ratings downgrade reflects concern over the Company’s ability to maintain compliance with financial covenants due to weak radio advertising demand. On May 12, 2009, Moody’s downgraded our corporate family rating to Caa1 from B1. On November 3, 2008, Moody’s placed on review the Company and its debt for a possible downgrade. The review was prompted by heightened concerns that the radio broadcast sector will likely face significa nt revenue and cash flow deterioration given weakness in the U.S. economy. Although reductions in our bond ratings may not have an immediate impact on our cost of debt or liquidity, they may impact our future cost of debt and liquidity. Increased debt levels and/or decreased earnings could result in further downgrades in our credit ratings, which, in turn, could impede our access to the debt markets and/or raise our long-term debt borrowing rates. Our ability to use debt to fund major new acquisitions or new business initiatives could also be limited. 28 Risks Related to Our Investment in TV One TV One recently incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the redemption of the membership interests of certain financial investor and management members. Effective upon completion of the redemptions of these members, we may be required to reflect TV One’s indebtedness in our total consolidated indebtedness and certain restrictions in the indenture governing the TV One indebtedness could impact upon TV One’s ability to make distributions to us. On February 25, 2011, TV One incurred $119.0 million of indebtedness in connection with the redemption of certain of its financial investor and management members. The debt was issued in a private offering in the form of Senior Secured Notes bearing a coupon of 10% and due 2016 (the “TV One 10% Senior Secured Notes”). Until the issuance of the TV One 10% Senior Secured Notes, TV One operated without any long-term indebtedness. Effective upon completion of the buyout of the financial investor and management members, our ownership of TV One increased to approximately 44.6%. Upon consolidation, we may be required to reflect TV One’s indebtedness in our total consolidated indebtedness. Further, the indenture governing the TV One 10% Senior Secured Notes contains certain covenants that c ould impact upon TV One’s operations, including its ability to make distributions. While we do not foresee these restrictions prohibiting TV One from making distributions, to the extent the restrictions do prohibit TV One from making distributions, it could impact upon our overall liquidity and our ability to maintain compliance under the terms of our outstanding indebtedness, including our senior credit facility and our 2016 Notes. A decline in advertising expenditures could cause TV One’s revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period. TV One derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers’ spending priorities. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of economic uncertainty. Advertising expenditures may also be affected by increasing competition for the leisure time of audiences. In addition, advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the automotive and financial segments, represent a significant portion of TV One’s advertising revenues. Any political, economic, social or technological change resulting in a reduction in these sectors’ advertising expenditures may adversely affect TV On e’s revenue. Advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising may also be affected by a decline in audience ratings for TV One’s programming, the inability of TV One to retain the rights to popular programming, increasing audience fragmentation caused by the proliferation of new media formats, including other cable networks, the internet and video-on-demand and the deployment of portable digital devices and new technologies which allow consumers to time shift programming, make and store digital copies and skip or fast-forward through advertisements. Any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on TV One’s revenues and results of operations. TV One’s success is dependent upon audience acceptance of its content, which is difficult to predict. Television content production is inherently a risky business because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a television program and the licensing of rights to the associated intellectual property, depend primarily upon their acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a television program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs in the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict. Rating points are also factors that are weighed when determining the advertising rates that TV One receives. Poor ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and adve rtising spending. Consequently, low public acceptance of TV One’s content may have an adverse effect on TV One’s results of operations. The loss of affiliation agreements could materially adversely affect TV One’s results of operations. TV One is dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with cable and direct broadcast distributors for its revenues, and there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to such distributors. The loss of one or more of these arrangements could reduce the distribution of TV One’s programming services and reduce revenues from subscriber fees and advertising, as applicable. Further, the loss of favorable packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities with any distributor could reduce revenues from subscriber fees. In addition, consolidation among cable distributors and increased vertical integration of such distributors into the cable or broadcast network business have provided more leverage to these distributors and could adversely affect TV One& #8217;s ability to maintain or obtain distribution for its network programming on favorable or commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The failure or destruction of satellites and transmitter facilities that TV One depends upon to distribute its programming could materially adversely affect TV One’s businesses and results of operations. TV One uses satellite systems to transmit its programming to affiliates. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters including extreme weather that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, TV One may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. Failure to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on TV One’s businesses and results of operations. In addition, TV One uses studio and transmitter facilities that are subject to damage or destruction. Failure to resto re such facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on TV One’s businesses and results of operations. 29 TV One’s operating results are subject to seasonal variations and other factors. TV One’s business has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on people’s viewing habits. Typically, TV One revenue from advertising increases in the fourth quarter. In addition, advertising revenues in even-numbered years benefit from advertising placed by candidates for political offices. The effects of such seasonality make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter and may adversely affect operating results. Economic conditions may adversely affect TV One’s businesses and customers. The U.S. has experienced a slowdown and volatility in its economy. This downturn could lead to lower consumer and business spending for TV One’s products and services, particularly if customers, including advertisers, subscribers, licensees, retailers, and other consumers of TV One’s offerings and services, reduce demands for TV One’s products and services. In addition, in unfavorable economic environments, TV One’s customers may have difficulties obtaining capital at adequate or historical levels to finance their ongoing business and operations and may face insolvency, all of which could impair their ability to make timely payments and continue operations. TV One is unable to predict the duration and severity of weakened economic conditions and such conditions and resultant effects could adversely impact TV On e’s businesses, operating results, and financial condition. Increased programming and content costs may adversely affect TV One’s profits. TV One produces and acquires programming (including motion pictures) and content and incurs costs for all types of creative talent, including actors, authors, writers and producers as well as marketing and distribution. An increase in any of these costs may lead to decreased profitability. Piracy of TV One’s programming and other content, including digital and internet piracy, may decrease revenue received from the exploitation of TV One’s programming and other content and adversely affect its businesses and profitability. Piracy of programming is prevalent in many parts of the world and is made easier by the availability of digital copies of content and technological advances allowing conversion of such programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of TV One’s content. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of these products has an adverse effect on TV One’s businesses and profitability because these products reduce the revenue that TV One potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its products and services. In addition, if piracy were to increase, it would have an adverse effect on TV One’s businesses and profitability. Changes in U.S. communications laws or other regulations may have an adverse effect on TV One’s business. The television and distribution industries in the U.S. are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The television broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations, and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation of TV One. For example, the FCC has initiated a proceeding to examine and potentially regulate more closely embedded advertising such as product placement and product integration. Enhanced restrictions affecting these means of delivering advertising messages may adversely affect TV One’s advertising revenu es. Changes to the media ownership and other FCC rules may affect the competitive landscape in ways that could increase the competition faced by TV One. Proposals have also been advanced from time to time before the U.S. Congress and the FCC to extend the program access rules (currently applicable only to those cable program services which also own or are owned by cable distribution systems) to all cable program services. TV One’s ability to obtain the most favorable terms available for its content could be adversely affected should such an extension be enacted into law. TV One is unable to predict the effect that any such laws, regulations or policies may have on its operations. 30 Vigorous enforcement or enhancement of FCC indecency and other program content rules against the broadcast and cable industries could have an adverse effect on TV One’s businesses and results of operations. The FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material on television broadcast stations between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent material because of the vagueness of the FCC’s indecency/profanity definition, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC vigorously enforces its indecency rules against the broadcasting industry. The FCC has stepped up its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency and has threatened to initiate license revocation proceedings against broadcast licensees for “serious” indecency violations. The FCC has found on a number of occasions that the content of television broadcasts has contained indecent material. In such instances, the FCC i ssued fines or advisory warnings to the offending broadcast licensees. Moreover, the FCC has in some instances imposed separate fines against broadcasters for each allegedly indecent “utterance,” in contrast with its previous policy, which generally considered all indecent words or phrases within a given program as constituting a single violation. On July 13, 2010, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (“Second Circuit”) issued a decision in which it vacated the FCC’s indecency policy pursuant to which any broadcast of a single “utterance” of a “fleeting expletive” would be deemed by the FCC to be presumptively indecent. In this decision, the Second Circuit also called into question the constitutionality of the FCC’s indecency policy generally. On August 25, 2010, the FCC filed a petition for rehearing of the decision with the Second Circuit. It is not possible to predict the outcome of the FCC 217;s appeal. It is also not possible to predict whether and, if so, how the FCC will revise its indecency policy in response to the Second Circuit decision, or the effect of such decision on TV One. The fines for broadcasting indecent material are a maximum of $325,000 per utterance. The determination of whether content is indecent is inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to predict whether particular content could violate indecency standards. The difficulty in predicting whether individual programs, words or phrases may violate the FCC’s indecency rules adds significant uncertainty to TV One’s ability to comply with the rules. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions which may adversely affect TV One’s business and results of operations. Some policymakers support the extension of the indecency rules that are applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cover cable programming and/or attempts to increase enforcement of or otherwise expa nd existing laws and rules. If such an extension, attempt to increase enforcement or other expansion took place and was found to be constitutional, some of TV One’s content could be subject to additional regulation and might not be able to attract the same subscription and viewership levels. Our President and Chief Executive Officer has an interest in TV One that may conflict with your interests. We have an employment agreement with our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Alfred C. Liggins, III. The employment agreement provides, among other things, that in recognition of Mr. Liggins’ contributions in founding TV One on our behalf, he is eligible to receive an amount equal to 8% of any dividends paid to us in respect of our investment in TV One and 8% of the proceeds from our investment in TV One (the “TV One Award”). In both circumstances, our obligation to pay any portion of the TV One Award is only triggered after we recover the full amount of our cumulative capital contributions to TV One. Mr. Liggins will only receive the TV One Award upon the actual cash distributions or distributions of marketable securities to us. Mr. Liggins’ rights to the TV One Award (i) cease if he is terminated for cause or he resigns without good reason and (ii) expire at the end of the term of his employment agreement (but similar rights could be included in the terms of a new employment agreement). As a result of this arrangement, the interest of Mr. Liggins’ with respect to TV One may conflict with your interests as holders of our debt or equity securities. For example, Mr. Liggins may seek to have Radio One acquire additional equity interests in TV One using cash generated from operations or additional borrowings under the senior credit facility or have TV One itself pursue acquisitions, joint ventures, financings or other transactions that, in his judgment, could increase the amount of the TV One Award by increasing the amount of our investment in TV One or enhancing the equity value of TV One, even though such transactions might involve risks to holders of our equity or debt securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On March 3, 2011, we received a letter from the SEC in connection with our Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed February 9, 2011 (the “February 2011 S-4”). The letter requested that we update our filing to include the audited December 31, 2010 financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. In response to the comments, we anticipate filing an amendment to the February 2011 S-4 within ten days of the filing date of this report. 