Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating our business, you should consider the following discussion of risk factors, in addition to other information contained in this report as well as our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company's financial performance is dependent on international operations, which exposes it to various risks. The Company's international operations account for nearly all of the Company's total sales. The Company's financial performance is subject to risks inherent in operating and expanding the Company's international membership business, which include: (i) changes in and interpretation of tariff and tax laws and regulations, as well as inconsistent enforcement of laws and regulations, (ii) the imposition of foreign and domestic governmental controls, (iii) trade restrictions, (iv) greater difficulty and costs associated with international sales and the administration of an international merchandising business, (v) thefts and other crimes, (vi) limitations on U.S. company ownership in certain foreign countries, (vii) product registration, permitting and regulatory compliance, (viii) volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, (ix) the financial and other capabilities of the Company's joint venturers and licensees, and (x) general political as well as economic and business conditions. Any failure by the Company to manage its widely dispersed operations could adversely affect the Company's business. As of August 31, 2007, the Company had in operation 23 consolidated warehouse clubs in 11 countries and one U.S. territory (four in Panama; four in Costa Rica; two each in the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and Trinidad; and one each in Aruba, Barbados, Jamaica, Nicaragua and the United States Virgin Islands). The success of the Company's business will depend to a significant degree on the Company's ability to (i) efficiently operate warehouse clubs on a profitable basis and (ii) maintain positive comparable warehouse club sales growth in the applicable markets. In addition, the Company will need to continually evaluate the adequacy of the Company's existing personnel, systems and procedures, including warehouse management and financial and inventory control. Moreover, the Company will be required to continually analyze the sufficiency of the Company's inventory distribution channels and systems and may require additional facilities in order to support the Company's operations. The Company may not adequately anticipate all the changing demands that will be imposed on these systems. An inability or failure to retain effective warehouse personnel or to update the Company's internal systems or procedures as required could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company faces significant competition. The Company's international merchandising businesses compete with exporters, wholesalers, local retailers and trading companies in various international markets. Some of the Company's competitors may have greater resources, buying power and name recognition. There can be no assurance that additional competitors will not decide to enter the markets in which the Company operates or that the Company's existing competitors will not compete more effectively against the Company. The Company may be required to implement price reductions in order to remain competitive should any of the Company's competitors reduce prices in any of the Company's markets. Moreover, the Company's ability to operate profitably in its markets, particularly small markets, may be adversely affected by the existence or entry of competing warehouse clubs or discount retailers. The Company faces difficulties in the shipment of and inherent risks in the importation of merchandise to its warehouse clubs. The Company's warehouse clubs typically import half or more of the merchandise that they sell, which originates from various countries and is transported over great distances, typically over water, which results in: (i) substantial lead times needed between the procurement and delivery of product, thus complicating merchandising and inventory control methods, (ii) the possible loss of product due to theft or potential damage to, or destruction of, ships or containers delivering goods, (iii) product markdowns as a result of it being cost prohibitive to return merchandise upon importation, (iv) product registration, tariffs, customs and shipping regulation issues in the locations the Company ships to and from, and (v) substantial ocean freight and duty costs. Moreover, each country in which the Company operates has different governmental rules and regulations regarding the importation of foreign products. Changes to the rules and regulations governing the importation of 6 Table of Contents merchandise may result in additional delays, costs or barriers in the Company's deliveries of products to its warehouse clubs or product it selects to import. For example, several of the countries in which the Company's warehouse clubs are located have imposed restrictions on the importation of some U.S. beef products because of concerns about Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE), commonly referred to as “mad cow disease.” As a result of these restrictions, the sales of U.S. beef products may be impaired for the duration of these restrictions and may continue following the lifting of these restrictions because of perceptions about the safety of U.S. beef among people living in these countries. In addition, only a limited number of transportation companies service the Company's regions. The inability or failure of one or more key transportation companies to provide transportation services to the Company, any collusion among the transportation companies regarding shipping prices or terms, changes in the regulations that govern shipping tariffs or the importation of products, or any other disruption in the Company's ability to transport the Company's merchandise could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is exposed to weather and other risks associated with international operations. The Company's operations are subject to the volatile weather conditions and natural disasters such as earthquakes and hurricanes, which are encountered in the regions in which the Company's warehouse clubs are located and which could result in significant damage to, or destruction of, or temporary closure of, the Company's warehouse clubs. For example, during September 2004, while no damage was sustained from the multiple hurricanes in the Caribbean, a total of eight days of sales were lost due to selected warehouse club closures resulting from heavy rains, local flooding and government advisories to stay off the roads. Losses from business interruption may not be adequately compensated by insurance and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Declines in the economies of the countries in which the Company operates its warehouse clubs would harm its business. The success of the Company's operations depends to a significant extent on a number of factors that affect discretionary consumer spending, including employment rates, business conditions, consumer spending patterns and customer preferences and other economic factors in each of the Company's foreign markets. Adverse changes in these factors, and the resulting adverse impact on discretionary consumer spending, would affect the Company's growth, sales and profitability. In addition, a significant decline in these economies may lead to increased governmental ownership or regulation of the economy, higher interest rates, increased barriers to entry such as higher tariffs and taxes, and reduced demand for goods manufactured in the United States. Any general instability in the national or regional economies of the foreign countries, in which the Company currently operates, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. A few of the Company's stockholders have control over the Company's voting stock, which will make it difficult to complete some corporate transactions without their support and may prevent a change in control. On October 31, 2007, a group comprised of Robert E. Price, who is the Company’s Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Jose Luis Laparte, the Company’s President, Sol Price, a significant stockholder of the Company and father of Robert E. Price, and Jack McGrory, Murray Galinson, and Keene Wolcott, members of our Board of Directors, and affiliates of these individuals, including Price Charities, and The Price Group, LLC filed an amended Schedule 13D reporting their collective ownership of approximately 51% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock and stating their intention to act as a group with respect to voting of the Company’s common stock. Because the group beneficially owns, in the aggregate, more than 50.0% of the Company's common stock, PriceSmart is a “controlled company” within the meaning of Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(5). As a result of their beneficial ownership, these stockholders have the ability to control the outcome of all matters submitted to the Company's stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. In addition, this ownership could discourage the acquisition of the Company's common stock by potential investors and could have an anti-takeover effect, possibly depressing the trading price of the Company's common stock. The loss of key personnel could harm the Company's business. The Company depends to a large extent on the performance of its senior management team and other key employees, such as U.S. expatriates in certain 7 Table of Contents locations where the Company operates, for strategic business direction. The loss of the services of any members of the Company's senior management or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company, primarily through majority or wholly owned subsidiaries, conducts operations in Central America and the Caribbean, and as such is subject to both economic and political instabilities that cause volatility in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions. As of August 31, 2007, the Company had a total of 23 consolidated warehouse clubs operating in 11 foreign countries and one U.S. territory, 16 of which operate under currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For fiscal year 2007, approximately 78% of the Company's net warehouse club sales were in foreign currencies. Also, as of August 31, 2007, the Company had a 50/50 joint venture accounted for under the equity method of accounting, which operates under the Mexican Peso. The Company may enter into additional foreign countries in the future or open additional locations in existing countries, which may increase the percentage of net warehouse sales denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign currencies in most of the countries where the Company operates have historically devalued against the U.S. dollar and are expected to continue to devalue. For example, the Dominican Republic experienced a net currency devaluation of 81% between the end of fiscal year 2002 and the end of fiscal year 2003 and 13% (significantly higher at certain points of the year) between the end of fiscal year 2003 and the end of fiscal year 2004. Foreign exchange transaction gains (losses), including repatriation of funds, which are included as part of the costs of goods sold in the consolidated statement of operations, for fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005 were approximately $5,000, $(1.5) million and $551,000, respectively. The Company faces the risk of exposure to product liability claims, a product recall and adverse publicity. The Company markets and distributes products, including meat, dairy and other food products, from third-party suppliers, which exposes the Company to the risk of product liability claims, a product recall and adverse publicity. The Company may inadvertently redistribute food products that are contaminated, which may result in illness, injury or death if the contaminants are not eliminated by processing at the foodservice or consumer level. The Company generally seeks contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from its major suppliers. However, if the Company does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability claims relating to products that are contaminated or otherwise harmful could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to successfully market its products and on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if a product liability claim is not successful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding a product recall or any assertion that the Company's products caused illness or injury could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation with existing and potential customers and on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Potential future impairments under Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 144 (“SFAS 144”), “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” could adversely affect the Company's future results of operations and financial position. In accordance with SFAS 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” long-lived assets are assessed for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be measured and recognized if the sum of the expected future discounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset were determined to be impaired, an impairment loss to write-down the carrying value of the asset to fair value by using quoted market prices, when available, would be required. When a quoted market price is not available, an estimated fair value would be determined through other valuation techniques. The Company has used projected cash flows discounted to reflect the expected commercial, competitive and other factors related to its long-lived assets and comparisons to similar asset sales and valuations by others to estimate the fair value of its intangible assets. These future tests may result in a determination that these assets have been impaired. If at any time the Company determines that an impairment has occurred, it will be required to reflect the impaired value as a charge, resulting in a reduction in earnings in the quarter such impairment is identified and a corresponding reduction in our net asset value. 8 Table of Contents For example, the Company was required to take an impairment charge pursuant to SFAS No. 144 on the old San Pedro Sula, Honduras warehouse site in fiscal year 2007 of approximately $897,000. This was due to the revised fair valuation of the land and building as a result of the disposal agreement. In addition the Company recorded $2.6 million impairment charge related to the write down of the Company's interest in its Mexico joint venture as a result of the disposal agreement. In fiscal year 2006, the Company was required to take an impairment charge pursuant to SFAS 144 of $1.6 million for its Honduras warehouse club operation, which was due to the intended relocation in November 2006 from the original San Pedro Sula location to a new site acquired during 2006 in another section of the city, and for the closed warehouse club operations in the Dominican Republic. In fiscal year 2005 the Company was required to take an impairment charge pursuant to SFAS 144 of $10.4 million in fiscal year 2005 for its U.S. Virgin Island warehouse club operation and for closed warehouse club operations in Guatemala and Dominican Republic, as well as $1.1 million and $3.1 million related to the write down of the Company's interest in its Mexico joint venture in fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively. A material reduction in earnings resulting from such a charge could cause the Company to fail to be profitable in the period in which the charge is taken or otherwise to fail to meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts, which could cause the price of the Company's stock to decline. Write-offs pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142 (“SFAS 142”), “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” could adversely affect the Company's future results of operations and financial position. Under statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but instead are subject to annual impairment tests in accordance with the Statement. As of August 31, 2007, the Company had goodwill of approximately $31.7 million, net of accumulated amortization originating prior to the adoption of SFAS 142. The Company performed its impairment test on goodwill as of August 31, 2007 and August 31, 2006, and no impairment losses were recorded. In the future, the Company will test for impairment at least annually. Such tests may result in a determination that these assets have been impaired. If at any time the Company determines that an impairment has occurred, the Company will be required to reflect the impaired value as a part of operating income, resulting in a reduction in earnings in the period such impairment is identified and a corresponding reduction in the Company's net asset value. A material reduction in earnings resulting from such a charge could cause the Company to fail to be profitable or increase the amount of its net loss in the period in which the charge is taken or otherwise to fail to meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts, which could cause the price of the Company's stock to decline. The Company faces increased compliance risks associated with compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Like many smaller public companies, the Company faces a significant impact from required compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires management of public companies to evaluate, and the independent auditors to attest to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the evaluation performed by management. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted rules implementing Section 404 for public companies as well as disclosure requirements. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, has adopted documentation and attestation standards that the independent auditors must follow in conducting its attestation under Section 404. Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and include those policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and the dispositions of our asset; (2) provide reasonable assurance that our transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with appropriate authorizations; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. 9 Table of Contents Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Any failure to effectively implement new or improved internal controls, or to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm the Company's operating results, cause it to fail to meet reporting obligations, result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of the Company's internal controls over financial reporting or the Company's independent auditors providing an adverse opinion regarding their attestation of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in the Company's reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's stock price. If remediation costs or hazardous substance contamination levels at certain properties for which the Company maintains financial responsibility exceed management’s current expectations, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In connection with its spin-off from Price Enterprises, Inc. (“PEI”) in 1997, the Company agreed to indemnify PEI for all of PEI's liabilities (including indemnification obligations for environmental liabilities) arising out of PEI's prior ownership of certain properties. The Company's ownership of real properties and its agreement to indemnify PEI could subject it to certain environmental liabilities. Certain of these properties are located in areas of current or former industrial activity, where environmental contamination may have occurred. For example, PEI sold an unimproved, 12.9-acre site located in Meadowlands, New Jersey in August 1995. A prior owner used this site as a debris disposal area. Elevated levels of heavy metals (including a small area contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyl) and petroleum hydrocarbons are present in soil at the Meadowlands site. To date, the Company has not been advised that PEI has been notified by any governmental authority, and is not otherwise aware, of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products in connection with the Meadowlands site. Nevertheless, PEI's previous ownership of the Meadowlands site creates the potential of liability for remediation costs associated with groundwater beneath the site. The Company also retains certain environmental indemnification obligations with respect to a parcel of land in Silver City, New Mexico, which PEI sold in March 1996 but agreed to retain responsibility for certain environmental matters. This site contains petroleum hydrocarbons in the soil and groundwater. There are no known receptors (groundwater users) down gradient of the Silver City site and the extent of soil and groundwater contamination is limited. The Company is continuing to monitor the soil and groundwater at this property under supervision of local authorities. If the Company were to incur costs for remediating contamination at the Meadowlands or Silver City sites (or any other site for which the Company maintains environmental responsibility) which exceed management’s current expectations, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Available Information The PriceSmart, Inc. website or internet address is www.pricesmart.com. On this website the Company makes available, free of charge, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with or furnishing it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Company’s SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of its website under “SEC Filings.” All of the Company’s filings with the SEC may also be obtained at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at Room 1580, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. For information regarding the operation of the SEC’s Public Reference Room, please contact the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Additionally, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 10 Table of Contents 