Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements and historical trends. These risks are not exclusive, and our business and our results of operations could also be affected by other risks that we cannot anticipate or that we do not consider material based on currently available information. Food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. Food safety is a top priority, and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe, quality food products. However, food-borne illnesses, such as E. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella, and food safety issues have occurred in the past, and could occur in the future. Any report or publicity linking us or one of our Concepts to instances of food-borne illness or other food safety issues, including food tampering or contamination, could adversely affect our Concepts’ brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits. If our customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could also be forced to temporarily close some restaurants. In addition, instances of food-borne illness, food tampering or food contamination occurring solely at restaurants of competitors could adversely affect our sales as a result of negative publicity about the foodservice industry generally. Food-borne illness, food tampering and food contamination could also be caused by food suppliers or distributors and, as a result, could be out of our control. The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our franchisees. Furthermore, like other companies in the restaurant industry, some of our products may contain genetically engineered food products, and our U.S. suppliers are currently not required to label their products as such. Increased regulation of and opposition to genetically engineered food products have on occasion and may in the future force the use of alternative sources at increased costs and lower margins for us and our franchisees. 10 Our China operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. A significant and growing portion of our restaurants are located in China. As a result, our financial results are increasingly dependent on our results in China, and our business is increasingly exposed to risks there. These risks include changes in economic conditions (including wage and commodity inflation, consumer spending and unemployment levels), tax rates and laws and consumer preferences, as well as changes in the regulatory environment and increased competition. In addition, our results of operations in China and the value of our Chinese assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may favorably or adversely affect reported earnings. There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. In addition, any significant or prolonged deterioration in U.S.-China relations could adversely affect our China business. Many of the risks and uncertainties of doing business in China are solely within the control of the Chinese government. China’s government regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within China. Although management believes it has structured our China operations to comply with local laws, there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in China. If we were unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in China, our business would be adversely impacted. Our other foreign operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. A significant portion of our restaurants are operated in foreign countries and territories outside of the U.S. and China, and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. As a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks, which can vary substantially by market, include political instability, corruption, social and ethnic unrest, changes in economic conditions (including wage and commodity inflation, consumer spending and unemployment levels), the regulatory environment, tax rates and laws and consumer preferences as well as changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated. In addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may favorably or adversely affect reported earnings. More specifically, an increase in the value of the United States Dollar relative to other currencies, such as the Chinese Renminbi, Australian Dollar, the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar and the Euro, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Any increase in certain commodity prices, such as food, energy and supply costs, could adversely affect our operating results. Because we provide moderately priced food, our ability to pass along commodity price increases to our customers may be limited. Significant increases in gasoline prices could also result in a decrease of customer traffic at our restaurants or the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors, each of which could adversely affect our business. Our operating expenses also include employee benefits and insurance costs (including workers’ compensation, general liability, property and health) which may increase over time. 11 Shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. We are dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. Such shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, increased demand, problems in production or distribution, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements, or other conditions beyond our control. A shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit the availability of products critical to restaurant operations. In addition, if a principal distributor for our Concepts and/or our franchisees fails to meet its service requirements for any reason, it could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new distributor is engaged, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could adversely affect our financial performance. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our supplier standards, product quality issues, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. Concerns regarding the safety of food ingredients or products that we source from our suppliers could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. Our operating results are closely tied to the success of our Concepts’ franchisees. We receive significant revenues in the form of royalties from our franchisees. Because a significant and growing portion of our restaurants are run by franchisees, the success of our business is increasingly dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. While our franchise agreements set forth certain operational standards and guidelines, we have limited control over how our franchisees’ businesses are run, and any significant inability of our franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments. For example, franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the restaurants contemplated by their franchise agreements with us. In addition, franchisees may not be able to find suitable sites on which to develop new restaurants or negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the sites, obtain the necessary permits and government approvals or meet construction schedules. If our franchisees incur too much debt or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to repay existing debt, it could result in financial distress or even possible insolvency or bankruptcy. If a significant number of our franchisees become financially distressed, this could harm our operating results through reduced or delayed royalty payments or increased rent obligations for leased properties on which we are contingently liable. 12 Our results and financial condition could be affected by the success of our refranchising program. We are in the process of a refranchising program, which could reduce the percentage of company ownership in the U.S., excluding licensees, from approximately 16% at the end of 2009 to potentially less than 10% by the end of 2011. Our ability to execute this plan will depend on, among other things, whether we receive fair offers for these restaurants, whether we can find viable and suitable buyers and how quickly we can agree to terms with potential buyers. In addition, some lenders have increased lending requirements or otherwise reduced the amount of loans they are making generally or to the restaurant industry in particular. To the extent potential buyers are unable to obtain financing at attractive prices – or unable to obtain financing at any price – our refranchising program could be delayed. Once executed, the success of the refranchising program will depend on, among other things, selection of buyers who can effectively operate these restaurants, our ability to limit our exposure to contingent liabilities in connection with the sale of our restaurants, and whether the resulting ownership mix of Company-operated and franchisee-operated restaurants allows us to meet our financial objectives. In addition, refranchising activity could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and that volatility could impact our reported earnings. We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses or subjecting us to significant money damages and other remedies. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. We are currently a defendant in cases containing class action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour and other laws. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. A judgment for significant monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results. In addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of some customers. We may also be subject to this type of claim in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results. Health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses or other diseases may have an adverse effect on our business. Asian and European countries have experienced outbreaks of Avian Flu, and some commentators have hypothesized that further outbreaks could occur and reach pandemic levels. While fully-cooked chicken has been determined to be safe for consumption, and while we have taken and continue to take measures to prepare for and minimize the effect of these outbreaks on our business, future outbreaks could adversely affect the price and availability of poultry and cause customers to eat less chicken. In addition, outbreaks on a widespread basis could also affect our ability to attract and retain employees. To the extent a virus such as H1N1 or “swine flu” is transmitted through human contact, employees or guests could become infected, or could choose, or be advised, to avoid gathering in public places, any of which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants. We could also be adversely affected if jurisdictions in which we have restaurants impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures or impose restrictions on operations. Even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or significant health risk may affect our business. 13 We may not attain our target development goals. Our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability to increase our net restaurant count in markets outside the United States. The successful development of new units will depend in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to open new restaurants, upgrade existing restaurants, and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis. We cannot guarantee that we, or our franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new, upgraded or converted restaurants will be operated profitably. Further, there is no assurance that any restaurant we open or convert will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. Other risks which could impact our ability to increase our net restaurant count include prevailing economic conditions and our, or our franchisees’, ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, obtain required permits and approvals and hire and train qualified personnel. Our franchisees also frequently depend upon financing from banks and other financial institutions in order to construct and open new restaurants. Disruptions in credit markets may make financing more difficult or expensive to obtain. If it becomes more difficult or expensive for our franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, our planned growth could slow and our future revenue and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Our business may be adversely impacted by general economic conditions. Our results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve. Worldwide economic conditions and consumer spending have deteriorated and there can be no assurance that consumer spending will return to prior levels. Some of the factors that are having an impact on discretionary consumer spending include increased unemployment, reductions in disposable income as a result of equity market declines and declines in residential real estate values, credit availability and consumer confidence. These and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales mix, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. The impact of potentially limited credit availability on third party vendors such as our suppliers cannot be predicted. The inability of our suppliers to access financing, or the insolvency of suppliers, could lead to disruptions in our supply chain which could adversely impact our sales and financial condition. Changes in governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations. We and our franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local regulations. Each of our restaurants is subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, fire and other agencies. Requirements of local authorities with respect to zoning, land use, licensing, permitting and environmental standards could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations. In addition, we face risks arising from compliance with and enforcement of increasingly complex federal and state immigration laws and regulations. We are subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. The expenses associated with any facilities modifications required by these laws could be material. Our operations are also subject to the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters. The compliance costs associated with these laws and evolving regulations could be substantial, and any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws could lead to litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition. 14 We also face risks from new or changing laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety and menu labeling regulation. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. New or changing laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities may impact our operations at the restaurant level and increase our cost of labor. In addition, we are subject to laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments and consumer credit, protection and fraud, and any failure or perceived failure to comply with those laws could harm our reputation or lead to litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition. The retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive. The retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, price, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. If consumer or dietary preferences change, or our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected. We also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes. In addition, in the retail food industry, labor is a primary operating cost component. Competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees, which could adversely impact our margins. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2009 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 15 Item 