ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company's common stock involves risks. Investors should read and carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to all other information in this Report before making an investment in the Company's common stock. Because the Company has a history of losses and fluctuating operating results, it can not assure prospective investors that it will operate profitably or will generate positive cash flow in the future. Although the Company has operated profitably since the end of 2003, that has not always been the case. During the five year period ended December 31, 2003, it incurred aggregate losses of approximately $37,000,000. The Company's operating results in the future may be subject to significant fluctuations due to many factors not within the Company's control, such as demand for the Company's products, and the level of competition and general economic conditions. If the Company fails to identify and respond appropriately to changing consumer demands and fashion trends, consumer acceptance of its products could be adversely affected and that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The apparel industry is highly competitive, fragmented and subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and preferences. The Company believes that its success depends in large part upon its ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demands and fashion trends in a timely manner and upon the continued appeal to consumers of the Girbaud brand name. The Company competes with numerous apparel manufacturers and distributors, many of which have greater financial resources than it possesses. The Company's products also compete with a substantial number of designer and non-designer lines. Although the level and nature of competition differ among the Company's product categories, the Company believes that it competes primarily on the basis of brand image, quality of design and value pricing. Increased competition by existing and future competitors could result in reductions in sales or prices of the Company's products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there is no assurance that it will be able to introduce competitive lines of Girbaud branded or other products or that such products will achieve market acceptance. The apparel industry historically has been subject to substantial cyclical variations, and a recession in the general economy or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Company is completely dependent upon licenses granted to it by an affiliate of the Company's controlling stockholders for all of the revenues that it generates. The Company's inability to renew those licenses upon terms that it would consider to be commercially reasonable could place it in a materially adverse position financially and operationally. The Company's business is completely dependent upon the Company's use of the Girbaud brand names and images, which are in turn dependent upon the existence and continuation of two license agreements granted to it by Latitude. Latitude is an affiliate of Wurzburg and Textile. Those two companies, which are wholly owned by Francois Girbaud and Marithe Bachellerie, collectively own approximately 38% of the Company's common stock. The Company's licenses for use of the Girbaud brand names and images are limited to certain specified products in the United States, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, extend through December 31, 2007, and may be renewed through December 31, 2011. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain the right to use the Girbaud brand names and images or enter into comparable arrangements upon the expiration of the current agreements. In addition, each of the Company's Girbaud license agreements contains provisions that, under certain circumstances (not all of which are under the Company's control), could permit Latitude to terminate the agreements. Such provisions include, among other things (i) a default in the payment of certain amounts payable under the applicable agreement that continues beyond the specified grace period and (ii) the failure to comply with the covenants contained in the applicable agreement. Any termination of these 10 agreements would result in loss of the Company's rights to use the Girbaud brand names and images and would have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Because the Company extends credit to its customers, it is subject to the risks inherent in ordering and paying for goods before it receives any payment for them. The Company extends credit to its customers based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition and credit history and, due to growth, continues to experience increases in the amount of the Company's outstanding accounts receivable. In 2005 and 2004, the Company's provision for doubtful accounts were $1.0 million and $0.4 million, respectively, and as a percentage of net sales were 1.2% and 0.5%, respectively. Its accounts receivable write-offs as a percentage of net sales during each of those periods were 0.8% and 0.3%, respectively. There can be no assurance that the Company's credit losses will continue at these levels. The failure to accurately assess the credit risk from the Company's customers, changes in overall economic conditions and other factors could cause the Company's credit losses to increase, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Company's dependence on unaffiliated manufacturers for the production of all of the products that it sells makes it susceptible to financial and customer-related problems that could arise from shipment delays and product quality issues. All of the Company's manufacturing and sourcing needs are currently met through domestic and foreign independent contractors. The Company currently contracts with approximately 20 manufacturers in 11 countries. The Company does not have long-term contracts with any manufacturers and most of those manufacturers supply the Company on a non-exclusive basis pursuant to purchase orders. During 2005 and 2004, approximately 81% of the Company's total unit production came from Asia and Africa, and approximately 19% of the Company's total unit production came from the US and Mexico. The inability of a manufacturer to ship the Company's products in a timely manner or to meet the Company's quality standards could adversely affect the Company's ability to deliver products to its customers in a timely manner. Delays in delivery caused by manufacturing delays, disruption in services of delivery carriers or other factors could result in cancellations of orders, refusals to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Company's complete reliance on foreign sourcing of its goods also subjects it to financial and customer-related problems that could arise from trade disputes and disruptions in the countries in which the Company's contractors are located. The Company's operations may be affected adversely by political instability resulting in the disruption of trade with the countries in which its contractors are located, the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports, the imposition of additional duties, tariff and other charges on imports, significant fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies or restrictions on the transfer of funds. Such factors have not previously had a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations but there can be no assurance that such will remain the case in the future. The Company's imported products are subject to United States customs duties, which comprise a material portion of the cost of the merchandise. A substantial increase in customs duties could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. The United States or the countries in which the Company's products are produced may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Company's policy is to notify the Company's independent manufacturers through the Company's agents of the expectation that such manufacturers operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While the Company's policies promote ethical business practices and the Company's staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of its independent manufacturers, the Company does not control such manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor 11 or other laws by an independent manufacturer or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The seasonality of the Company's business, periodic changes in customer tastes and quarterly fluctuations in the Company's sales require it to make predictions about consumer demands for the Company's products that can turn out to be wrong. The Company's financial condition can be materially adversely affected when that occurs. The Company's business is subject to significant seasonal and quarterly fluctuations that are characteristic of the apparel and retail industries. The Company's backlog of orders and overall results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of, among other things, variations in the timing of product orders by customers, weather conditions that may affect purchases at the wholesale and retail levels, the amount and timing of shipments, advertising and marketing expenditures and increases in the number of employees and overhead to support growth. In the Company's segment of the apparel industry, sales are generally higher in the first and third quarters. Historically, the Company has taken greater markdowns in the second and fourth quarters. Errors by the Company in predicting customer acceptance or consumer demand for its products might result in significant unrecoupable expenditures on inventory that could materially adversely affect the Company's financial condition or its operating results. Because the Company is effectively controlled by two stockholders affiliated with the Company's licensor, it may be difficult for the Company's other investors to influence or implement changes in governance and control of the company. Wurzburg and Textile, both of whom are affiliated with Latitude, the company that has licensed the Company's use of the Girbaud trademarks, brand names and images, beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 38% of the Company's outstanding common stock. Such concentration of ownership, together with the anti-takeover effects of certain provisions of the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Restated Certificate") and Amended and Restated By-laws (the "Restated By-laws"), may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company. Various anti-takeover provisions of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Restated By-laws may impact upon an investor's ability to maximize his investment in the Company's common stock. The Company's Restated Certificate and Restated By-laws include provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a non-negotiated takeover of the company and preventing certain changes of control. These provisions, among other things (i) permit the Company's Board of Directors, without further stockholder approval, to issue up to 5.0 million shares of preferred stock with rights and preferences determined by the Board of Directors at the time of issuance, (ii) require a 66.7% vote of the Company's stockholders to approve any amendment, addition or termination of the Restated By-laws and (iii) restrict the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of the stockholders, nominate individuals for election to the Board of Directors or submit stockholder proposals. The provisions of the Restated Certificate and the Restated By-laws might, therefore, have the effect of inhibiting stockholders' ability to realize the maximum value for their shares of common stock that might otherwise be realized because of a merger or other event affecting the control of the company. The Company's stock may be a penny stock. Trading of the Company's stock may be restricted by the SEC's penny stock regulations which may limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell the Company's stock. Although the price of the Company's stock has recently traded above $5.00 per share, during most of the past several years, the Company's stock has fallen within the SEC's definition of a penny stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less 12 than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. As of the date of filing of this Report, the Company's securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors". The term "accredited investor" refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade the Company's securities. The Company believes that, in the past, the penny stock rules have discouraged investor interest in and have limited the marketability of the Company's common stock. NASD sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell the Company's stock. In addition to the "penny stock" rules described above, the NASD has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, the NASD believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The NASD requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy the Company's common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell the Company's stock and have an adverse effect on the market for the Company's shares. Trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may be sporadic because it is not a stock exchange, and stockholders may have difficulty reselling their shares. The Company's common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Trading in stock quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with the Company's operations or business prospects. Moreover, the OTC Bulletin Board is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a quotation system like Nasdaq or a stock exchange like the New York Stock Exchange. Investors may experience dilution of their ownership interests and the Company's stock price may be adversely affected due to its future issuance of common or preferred stock, or securities that are convertible into, exchangeable for or exercisable for shares of common or preferred stock. The Company may in the future issue previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of its present stockholders. The Company is currently authorized to issue 50 million shares of common stock and 5 million shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and rights as may be determined by the Company's board of directors. As of the date of filing of this Report, 11,996,485 shares of common stock were outstanding. In addition, the Company reserved: 13 o 2,200,000 shares of common stock for issuance pursuant to the Company's Amended and Restated Omnibus Stock Plan, of which 655,433 shares have been issued, 1,174,167 shares underlying outstanding options and 370,400 shares remain available for future grants, and o 450,000 shares of common stock for issuance pursuant to the Company's 2005 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan, none of which have been issued and options to purchase 120,000 shares are outstanding. The potential issuance of additional shares of the Company's common and preferred stock, as well as securities convertible into, exchangeable for or exercisable for shares of the Company's common or preferred stock, may create downward pressure on the trading price of the Company's common stock. The Company may also issue additional shares of common stock or other securities that are convertible into, exchangeable for or exercisable for common or preferred stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future issuances of the Company's securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of the Company's common or preferred stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of the Company's common stock. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 14 