Item1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks below also include forward-looking statements. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. We are required to comply with the terms of an agreement with the OCC and a written agreement with the Federal Reserve and lack of compliance could result in monetary penalties and /or additional regulatory actions. In January 2009, Riverview Community Bank, the Company’s wholly-owned banking subsidiary, entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) with the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”), at the time the Bank’s primary regulator. Following the transfer of the responsibilities and authority of the OTS to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) on July 21, 2011, the MOU was enforced by the OCC. On January 25, 2012, the Bank entered into a formal written agreement (“Agreement”) with the OCC. Upon effectiveness of the Agreement, the MOU was terminated by the OCC. The Agreement is based on the findings of the OCC during their on-site examination of the Bank as of June 30, 2011 (“OCC Exam”). Since the completion of the OCC Exam, we have aggressively worked to address the findings of the OCC Exam and have already successfully implemented initiatives and strategies to address and resolve a number of the issues noted in the Agreement. Under the Agreement, the Bank is required to take the following actions: (a) refrain from paying dividends without prior OCC non-objection; (b) adopt, implement and adhere to a three year capital plan, including objectives, projections and implementation strategies for the Bank’s overall risk profile, dividend policy, capital requirements, primary capital structure sources and alternatives, various balance sheet items, as well as systems to monitor the Bank’s progress in meeting the plans, goals and objectives of the plan; (c) add a credit risk management function and appoint a Chief Lending Officer that is independent from the credit risk management function; (d) update the Bank’s credit policy and not grant, extend, renew or alter any loan over $250,000 without meeting certain requirements set forth in the Agreement; (e) adopt, implement and adhere to a program to ensure that risk associated with the Bank’s loans and other assets is properly reflected on the Bank’s books and records; (f) adopt, implement and adhere to a program to reduce the Bank’s criticized assets; (g) maintain a consultant to perform semi-annual asset quality reviews of the Bank’s loan portfolio; (h) adopt, implement and adhere to policies related to asset diversification and reducing concentrations of credit; and (i) submit quarterly progress reports to the OCC regarding various aspects of the foregoing actions. The Bank’s Board must ensure that the Bank has the processes, personnel and control systems in place to ensure implementation of and adherence to the requirements of the Agreement. In connection with this requirement, the Bank’s Board has appointed a compliance committee to submit such reports and monitor and coordinate the Bank’s performance under the Agreement. In October 2009, Riverview Bancorp, Inc. (the “Company”) entered into a separate MOU agreement with the OTS, at the time the Company’s primary regulator. In May 2013, the Company entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve. This written agreement requires the Company to: (a) provide notice to and obtain written approval from the Federal Reserve prior to the Company declaring a dividend or redeeming any capital stock or receiving dividends or other payments from the Bank; (b) provide notice to and obtain written approval from the Federal Reserve prior to the Company incurring, issuing, renewing or repurchasing any new debt; (c) provide notice to and obtain written approval from the Federal Reserve prior to the Company making payments on its Debentures; (d) submit written statement of its planned sources and uses of cash for debt service, operating expenses, and other purposes (“Cash Flow Projection”) beginning for calendar year 2013 and submit progress reports related to its Cash Flow Projections and financial results. Under the written agreement with the Federal Reserve, the Company also agreed to take any required action to ensure compliance by the Bank with the Agreement and Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act as implemented by the Federal Reserve Board’s Regulation W and to not appoint any new director or senior executive officer or change the responsibilities of any current senior executive officers, without the prior written non-objection of the Federal Reserve in the case of Riverview and the OCC in the case of the Bank. We are also limited and/or prohibited, in certain circumstances, in our ability to enter into contracts to pay and to make golden parachute severance and indemnification payments. The written agreement and Agreement will remain in effect until stayed, modified, terminated or suspended by the Federal Reserve and OCC, respectively. If either the Company or Bank is found not in compliance with the written agreement or Agreement, as 35 the case may be, it could be subject to various remedies, including among others, the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to direct an increase in capital, to restrict the growth of the Company or the Bank, to remove officers and/or directors, and to assess civil monetary penalties. Management of the Company and the Bank have been taking action and implementing programs to comply with the requirements of the written agreement and Agreement and compliance will be determined by the Federal Reserve and OCC, respectively. Management believes that the Company and the Bank have or will comply in all material respects with the provisions of the written agreement and Agreement. Either of these regulators may determine, however, in its sole discretion that the issues raised by the written agreement or the Agreement have not been addressed satisfactorily, or that any current or past actions, violations or deficiencies could be the subject of further regulatory enforcement actions. Such enforcement actions could involve penalties or limitations on the business of the Bank or the Company and negatively affect our ability to implement our business plan, pay dividends on our common stock and the value of our common stock as well as our financial condition and results of operations. The Bank has also separately agreed to the OCC establishing higher minimum capital ratios for the Bank, specifically that the Bank maintain a Tier 1 capital (leverage) ratio of not less than 9.00% and a total risk-based capital ratio of not less than 12.00%. As of March 31, 2013, the Bank’s Tier 1 capital (leverage) ratio was 9.99% and its total risk-based capital ratio was 15.29%. Our business may continue to be adversely affected by downturns in the national and the regional economies on which we depend. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the states of Washington and Oregon. A continuing decline in the economies of the seven counties, in which we operate, including the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area, which we consider to be our primary market area, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, Washington and Oregon have experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures and have experienced above average unemployment rates. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: · loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · the slowing of sales of foreclosed assets; · demand for our products and services may decline; · collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and · the amount of our low-cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease. A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have adverse effect on our results of operations. The ongoing debate in Congress regarding the national debt ceiling and federal budget deficit and concerns over the United States' credit rating (which was downgraded by Standard & Poor's), the European sovereign debt crisis, the overall weakness in the economy and continued high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition. Furthermore, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating 36 costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance. Our real estate construction and land acquisition or development loans expose us to risk. We make real estate construction loans to individuals and builders, primarily for the construction of residential properties. We originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. At March 31, 2013, construction loans totaled $9.7 million, or 1.81% of our total loan portfolio, of which $4.0 million were for residential real estate projects. Land loans, which are loans made with land as security, totaled $23.4 million, or 4.37%, of our total loan portfolio at March 31, 2013. Land loans include raw land and land acquisition and development loans. In our primary market area, the housing market has slowed, with weaker demand for housing, higher inventory levels and longer marketing times. A further downturn in housing, or the real estate market, could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In general, construction, and land lending involves additional risks because of the inherent difficulty in estimating a property's value both before and at completion of the project as well as the estimated cost of the project. Construction costs may exceed original estimates as a result of increased materials, labor or other costs. In addition, because of current uncertainties in the residential real estate market, property values have become more difficult to determine than they have historically been. Construction loans and land acquisition and development loans often involve the disbursement of funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. These loans are also generally more difficult to monitor. Loans on land under development or held for future construction as well as lot loans made to individuals for the future construction of a residence also pose additional risk because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral. These risks can be significantly impacted by supply and demand conditions. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. At March 31, 2013, $26.9 million of our construction and land loans were for speculative construction loans, of which, $3.4 million, or 12.8%, were nonperforming at March 31, 2013. Our emphasis on commercial real estate lending may expose us to increased lending risks. Our current business strategy is focused on the expansion of commercial real estate lending. This type of lending activity, while potentially more profitable than single-family residential lending, is generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. Many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss. At March 31, 2013, we had $332.0 million of commercial and multi-family real estate mortgage loans, representing 61.9% of our total loan portfolio. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Commercial and multi-family mortgage loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multi-family real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. At March 31, 2013, $13.3 million or 4.0% of our commercial real estate and multi-family loans were nonperforming. A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate and multi-family loans is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. As a result of these characteristics, if we foreclose on a commercial or multi-family real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Accordingly, charge-offs on commercial and multi-family real estate loans may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. 37 The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under this guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital, or (ii) total reported loans secured by multifamily and non-farm residential properties, loans for construction, land development and other land, and loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. The particular focus of the guidance is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be at greater risk to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution). The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations. The guidance states that management should employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. We have concluded that we have a concentration in commercial real estate lending under the foregoing standards because our $285.4 million balance in commercial real estate loans at March 31, 2013 represents 300% or more of total capital. While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate loan portfolio consistent with this guidance, bank regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures consistent with their interpretation of the guidance that may result in additional costs to us. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At March 31, 2013, $97.1 million, or 18.1% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by one- to four-family mortgage loans and home equity loans. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in our market area has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Many of our one- to four-family loans and home equity lines of credit are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because of these declines in home values in our primary market area. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, they may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. Further, the majority of our home equity lines of credit consist of second mortgage loans. For those home equity lines secured by a second mortgage, it is unlikely that we will be successful in recovering all or a portion of our loan proceeds in the event of default unless we are prepared to repay the first mortgage loan and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. For these reasons, we could experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. At March 31, 2013, $3.1 million or 3.1% of our residential real estate loans were nonperforming. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. At March 31, 2013, we had $71.9 million or 13.4% of total loans in commercial business loans. Commercial lending involves risks that are different from those associated with residential and commercial real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. Our commercial loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrowers' cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial loans depends primarily on the cash flow and credit worthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. At March 31, 2013, $1.3 million or 1.9% of our commercial business loans were nonperforming. 38 Our provision for loan losses have increased during recent years compared to historical averages and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $900,000 and $29.4 million, respectively. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $5.2 million and $24.4 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Despite the decrease from the prior year, we are still experiencing elevated levels of loan delinquencies and credit losses by historical standards. Further, our portfolio is concentrated in construction and land loans and commercial and commercial real estate loans, all of which have a higher risk of loss than residential mortgage loans. If current weak conditions in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses, until general economic conditions improve further. As a result, we could be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · the cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; · the duration of the loan; · the credit history of a particular borrower; and · changes in economic and industry conditions. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: · our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience and certain macroeconomic factors based on management’s expectations of future events; · our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of nonperforming loans and their underlying collateral; and · an unallocated reserve to provide for other credit losses inherent in our portfolio that may not have been contemplated in the other loss factors. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was 2.92% of gross loans held for investment and 74.02% of nonperforming loans at March 31, 2013. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our capital. 39 If our nonperforming assets increase, our earnings will be adversely affected. At March 31, 2013 and 2012, our nonperforming assets (which consist of non-accruing loans and real estate owned (“REO”)) were $36.8 million and $62.9 million, respectively, or 4.73% and 7.35% of total assets, respectively. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways: · we record interest income only on a cash basis for nonaccrual loans and any nonperforming investment securities; and do not record interest income for REO; · we must provide for probable loan losses through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses; · non-interest expense increases when we write down the value of properties in our REO portfolio to reflect changing market values or recognize other-than-temporary impairment on nonperforming investment securities; · there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets, as well as carrying costs, such as taxes, insurance, and maintenance fees related to our REO; and · the resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity. If additional borrowers become delinquent and do not pay their loans and we are unable to successfully manage our nonperforming assets, our losses and troubled assets could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed upon and the property taken in as REO, and at certain other times during the assets holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our REO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The value of the securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in securities markets. The market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio has become increasingly volatile in recent years. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary or permanent impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate and/or sell loans; (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, which could negatively impact shareholders’ equity, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans; and (5) the average duration of our mortgage backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. As a result of the relatively low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits have been comprised of short-term 40 certificates of deposit and other deposits yielding no or a relatively low rate of interest. At March 31, 2013, we had $132.3 million in certificates of deposit that mature within one year and $112.5 million in non-interest bearing demand deposits. We would incur a higher cost of funds to retain these deposits in a rising interest rate environment. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. In addition, a substantial amount of our mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit have adjustable interest rates. As a result, these loans may experience a higher rate of default in a rising interest rate environment. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, a prolonged period of exceptionally low market interest rates, such as we are currently experiencing, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of substantially reduced asset yields. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet or projected operating results. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the last four years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, yields on securities we have purchased, and market rates on the loans we have originated, have been at levels lower than were available prior to 2008. Consequently, the average yield on our interest-earning assets has decreased during the recent low interest rate environment. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has contributed to increases in net interest income in the short term. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the near future. Accordingly, our net interest income may decrease, which may have an adverse affect on our profitability. For information with respect to changes in interest rates, see “-Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability.” Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments negatively impact our earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum reserve ratio. The FDIC has adopted a plan under which it will meet this ratio by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio to 1.35% from the former minimum of 1.15%. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset. In addition to the statutory minimum ratio, the FDIC must set a designated reserve ratio or DRR, which may exceed the statutory minimum. The FDIC has set 2.0 as the DRR. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has adopted final regulations under which insurance premiums are based on an institution's total assets minus its tangible equity instead of its deposits. While our FDIC insurance premiums initially will be reduced by these regulations, it is possible that our future insurance premiums will increase under the final regulations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, growth and prospects. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. We rely on customer deposits and, as needed, advances from the FHLB of Seattle (“FHLB”), borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco ("FRB") and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, we may not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our financial condition, the financial condition of the FHLB or FRB, or market conditions change. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Washington or Oregon markets where our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. In addition, the OCC has limited our ability to use brokered deposits as a source of liquidity by restricting them to not more than 20% of our total deposits. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Deposit flows, calls of investment securities and wholesale borrowings, and the prepayment of loans and mortgage-related securities are also strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived, and competition for deposits and loans in the markets we serve. Furthermore, changes to the FHLB’s underwriting guidelines for wholesale borrowings or lending policies may limit or restrict our ability to borrow, and could therefore have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity. In addition, the need to replace funds in the event of large-scale withdrawals of brokered deposits could require us to pay 41 significantly higher interest rates on retail deposits or other wholesale funding sources, which would have an adverse impact on our net interest income and net income. A decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, or to fulfill such obligations as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable, or are not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations, growth and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Company may not incur additional debt without the prior written non-objective of the Federal Reserve. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. See also “-We have deferred payments of interest on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures and as a result we are prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, our common stock.” An increase in interest rates, change in the programs offered by governmental sponsored entities (“GSE”) or our ability to qualify for such programs may reduce our mortgage revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income. Our mortgage banking operations provide a portion of our non-interest income. We generate mortgage revenues primarily from gains on the sale of single-family mortgage loans pursuant to programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and non-GSE investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Any future changes in these programs, our eligibility to participate in such programs, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of such entities could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations. Further, in a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. This would result in a decrease in mortgage banking revenues and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expense associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations. A general decline in economic conditions may adversely affect the fees generated by our asset management company. To the extent our asset management clients and their assets become adversely affected by weak economic and stock market conditions, they may choose to withdraw the amount of assets managed by us and the value of their assets may decline. Our asset management revenues are based on the value of the assets we manage. If our clients withdraw assets or the value of their assets decline, the revenues generated by Riverview Asset Management Corp. will be adversely affected. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future, including the heightened capital requirements under the Bank’s agreement with the OCC. Nonetheless, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. Should we elect to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or convertible securities to new stockholders would be dilutive to our current stockholders. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our operations could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to raise additional capital when required by the Federal Reserve or the OCC, we may be subject to additional adverse regulatory action. See “--We are required to comply with the terms of an agreement with the OCC and a written agreement with the Federal Reserve and lack of compliance could result in monetary penalties and /or additional regulatory actions.” 42 We may experience future goodwill impairment, which could reduce our earnings. We performed our annual goodwill impairment test during the quarter-ended December 31, 2012, but no impairment was identified. Our assessment of the fair value of goodwill is based on an evaluation of current purchase transactions, discounted cash flows from forecasted earnings, our current market capitalization, and a valuation of our assets. Our evaluation of the fair value of goodwill involves a substantial amount of judgment. If our judgment was incorrect and an impairment of goodwill was deemed to exist, we would be required to write down our assets resulting in a charge to earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, perhaps materially; however, it would have no impact on our liquidity, operations or regulatory capital. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will, among other things, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Bank is subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the OCC and the FDIC, and Riverview is subject to examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve. The OCC, FDIC and the Federal Reserve govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on an institution's operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and has affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting and implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on us. For example, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions such as the Bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulator. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. Any additional changes in our regulation and oversight, whether in the form of new laws, rules or regulations, could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. 43 The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules is uncertain. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and OCC approved proposed rules that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank. The proposed rules implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed rules were subject to a public comment period that has expired and there is no date set for the adoption of final rules. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of bank holding companies, such as the Company. The leverage and risk-based capital ratios of these entities may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The proposed rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which would be phased in during 2013 and 2014, and would refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The proposed new minimum capital level requirements applicable to the Company and the Bank under the proposals would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the proposed Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to the Company and the Bank. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, regulators of banks and bank holding companies have become more likely to impose capital requirements on bank holding companies and banks that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations. The application of more stringent capital requirements for the Company and the Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back shares. New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a company's stockholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading “Item 1. Business-Regulation.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, restrict mergers and acquisitions, investments, access to capital, the location of banking offices, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with the various regulations to which we are subject. Some of these regulations may increase our costs and thus place other financial institutions in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. We cannot predict what restrictions may be imposed upon us with future legislation. 44 Our litigation related costs might continue to increase. Riverview Community Bank is subject to a variety of legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of Riverview Community Bank’s business. In the current economic environment Riverview Community Bank’s involvement in litigation has increased significantly, primarily as a result of defaulted borrowers asserting claims in order to defeat or delay foreclosure proceedings. Riverview Community Bank believes that it has meritorious defenses in legal actions where it has been named as a defendant and is vigorously defending these suits. Although management, based on discussion with litigation counsel, believes that such proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or operations of Riverview Community Bank, there can be no assurance that a resolution of any such legal matters will not result in significant liability to Riverview Community Bank nor have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations or Riverview Community Bank’s ability to meet applicable regulatory requirements. Moreover, the expenses of pending legal proceedings will adversely affect Riverview Community Bank’s results of operations until they are resolved. There can be no assurance that Riverview Community Bank’s loan workout and other activities will not expose Riverview Community Bank to additional legal actions, including lender liability or environmental claims. Our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock may become impaired. At March 31, 2013, we owned $7.2 million in FHLB stock. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and it is subject to recoverability testing per applicable accounting standards. The FHLB has announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the "FHFA"), its primary regulator, as of December 31, 2008, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, the FHLB has not paid a dividend since the fourth quarter of 2008. In September 2012, the FHLB announced that the FHFA now considers the FHLB to be adequately capitalized. The FHLB also announced that it had been granted authority to repurchase up to $25 million of excess capital stock per quarter, provided they receive a non-objection from the FHFA. As of March 31, 2013, the FHLB had repurchased $196,300 of its stock, at par, from the Bank. As a result, we have not recorded an impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. Further deterioration in the FHLB’s financial position may, however, result in future impairment in the value of those securities. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. Consolidation among financial service providers has resulted in fewer very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding a large accumulation of assets. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. Our competitors sometimes are also able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues, we expect additional institutions to try to exploit our market. Technological developments have allowed competitors including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost-efficiencies necessary to compete in our industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced attempted attacks on our information systems; however our monitoring systems detected these attacks and the attempted attack was ultimately not successful. 45 We rely on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality, as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business. Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the community banking industry where the Bank conducts its business. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our President, and certain other employees. In addition, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the services of our directors, many of whom are at or nearing retirement age, and we may not be able to identify and attract suitable candidates to replace such directors. Our exposure to operational risks may adversely affect us. Similar to other financial institutions, we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, the risk that sensitive customer or Company data is compromised, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors. If any of these risks occur, it could result in material adverse consequences for us. Regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on our common stock. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Further, holders of our common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of our preferred stock at any time outstanding or depositary shares representing such preferred stock then outstanding. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. We suspended our cash dividend during the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and we do not know if we will resume the payment of dividends in the future. Furthermore, the Company elected to defer regularly scheduled interest payments on its junior subordinated debentures during the first quarter of fiscal 2011, which in turn, restricts the Company’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock. See “-We have deferred payments of interest on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures and as a result we are prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, our common stock.” In addition, under the terms of the Company’s written agreement with the Federal Reserve, the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders is subject to the prior written non-objection of the Federal Reserve. As an entity separate and distinct from the Bank, the Company derives substantially all of its revenue in the form of dividends from the Bank. Accordingly, the Company is and will be dependent upon dividends from the Bank to satisfy its cash needs and to pay dividends on its common stock and service the interest payments on its trust preferred security. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and, to meet certain regulatory requirements. The Bank does not currently meet these regulatory requirements. As discussed above, under the Agreement, the Bank may not pay dividends to the Company without prior OCC non-objection, and under the written agreement with the Federal Reserve, Riverview may not receive any such dividends without the approval of the Federal Reserve, which also 46 limits the Company’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock. The lack of a cash dividend could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have deferred payments of interest on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures and as a result we are prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, our common stock. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we elected to defer regularly scheduled interest payments on our outstanding $22.7 million aggregate principal amount of junior subordinated debentures issued in connection with the sale of trust preferred securities through statutory business trusts. There are currently two separate series of these junior subordinated debentures outstanding, each series having been issued under a separate indenture and with a separate guarantee from Riverview. During the deferral period, interest will continue to accrue on the junior subordinated debentures at the stated coupon rate, including the deferred interest, and Riverview may not, among other things, pay cash dividends on or, with limited exceptions, repurchase its common stock nor make any payment on outstanding debt obligations that rank equally with or are junior to the junior subordinated debentures. We may, without notice to or consent from the holders of our common stock, issue additional series of junior subordinated debentures in the future with terms similar to those of our existing junior subordinated debentures or enter into other financing agreements that limit our ability to purchase or to pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock, including our common stock. Under Riverview’s Agreement the issuance of any new debt is subject to the non-objection of the OCC. Assuming we were to receive such non-objection, as a result of our deferral of interest on the junior subordinated debentures, it is likely that we will not be able to raise funds through the offering of debt securities until we become current on these obligations or these obligations are restructured. This deferral may also adversely affect our ability to obtain debt financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, if Riverview defers interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures for more than 20 consecutive quarters, it would be in default under the indentures governing these debentures and the amount due under such agreements would be immediately due and payable. Events of default under the indenture generally consist of our failure to pay interest on the junior subordinated debt securities under certain circumstances, our failure to pay any principal of or premium on such junior subordinated debt securities when due, our failure to comply with certain covenants under the indenture, and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or liquidation relating to us or the Bank. As long as we defer interest payments, we will likely have greater difficulty in obtaining financing and have fewer financing sources. In addition, the market value of our common stock may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 