Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before purchasing our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. 15 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Before it can be marketed, our lead drug candidate requires FDA approval, a long, expensive process with no guarantee of success. We are seeking FDA approval for Triferic®, our lead drug candidate. Obtaining FDA approval for any drug can take a long time. The FDA may find deficiencies in our NDA, may raise safety or efficacy concerns or may otherwise require additional clinical testing or impose other requirements before approving Triferic®, which could significantly delay approval or result in us not receiving approval at all. Clinical trials and the NDA approval process are expensive and time consuming to complete. Any such delays or additional testing or other requirements may require us to raise additional capital which may not be available when needed or may be available only on terms that are not in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders or which result in substantial dilution of shareholders' voting power and ownership. It is possible that Triferic® may never be approved by the FDA. If we are unable to obtain FDA approval or if such approval is substantially delayed, our entire investment in new products may be worthless, our licensing rights could be forfeited and the price of our common stock could substantially decline. Even if Triferic® is approved by the FDA, we may not be able to market it successfully. Even if Triferic® is approved by the FDA, the commercial success of Triferic® will depend on a number of factors, including the following: •one drug currently dominates treatment for iron deficiency and Triferic® will have to compete against it and other existing products; •it may be difficult to gain market acceptance from dialysis chains, anemia managers and nephrologists or such acceptance may be slower than expected. Market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, such as demonstration of Triferic®'s safety and efficacy, its cost-effectiveness, its advantages over existing products, and the reimbursement policies of government and third party payors, including Medicare; •maintaining compliance with ongoing regulatory requirements applicable to Triferic® which may be imposed by the FDA as part of the approval or which apply generally to the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping applicable to the product; •the effectiveness of our marketing, sales and distribution strategies and operations for development and commercialization of Triferic® and our ability to execute our marketing strategy without significant additional expenditures; •our ability to avoid third party patent interference or patent infringement claims; and •a continued acceptable safety profile of Triferic® following approval. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with Triferic® or with any third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in regulatory action that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and market Triferic®. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate revenues through the sale of Triferic®. If we are not successful in commercializing Triferic®, or are significantly delayed in doing so, our entire investment in Triferic® may be worthless, our licensing rights could be forfeited and the price of our common stock could substantially decline. 16 If we do not obtain protection under the Hatch-Waxman Act to extend patent protection for Triferic®, our business may be harmed. The United States Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, more commonly known as the "Hatch-Waxman Act," provides that patent holders may apply for an extension of patent term for drugs for a period of up to five years to compensate for time spent in development and regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that we will receive the extension of the patent term provided under the Hatch-Waxman Act. If we fail to receive such extension, our ability to prevent competitors from manufacturing, marketing and selling generic versions of Triferic® could be impaired and we would have to rely on the protection afforded us by the U.S. patent we hold on the synthesis and formulation of our pharmaceutical grade formulation of Triferic® which expires in 2029 or on other patents related to Triferic® that may be issued to us in the future. FDA approval to manufacture Calcitriol may take longer than we anticipate and commercial launch may be delayed or may not be widely adopted when launched. We are seeking FDA approval for a change in manufacturing location for a generic version of Calcitriol, the ANDA for which we acquired from a third party. The timing for receiving approval of this change from the FDA is not predictable. If we receive approval of this change, we must meet certain ongoing regulatory requirements for product testing and stability of our commercially marketed products. If our testing does not meet approvable standards or if we experience operational issues with our CMO we may not be able to market Calcitriol. The market for generic drugs such as Calcitriol is generally very competitive. Even if the FDA approves our change in manufacturing location for Calcitriol so that we can begin marketing it, we may encounter a very competitive environment for Calcitriol which may make it difficult for us to capture significant market share. If we do have success in capturing market share with Calcitriol, it may attract other entrants to market their own generic version of Calcitriol, which could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and results of operations. Branded competitors may aggressively lower their prices to maintain market share. We could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages and compelled to defend against litigation if we infringe the rights of a third party. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We could incur substantial costs in seeking enforcement of our patent rights against infringement, and we cannot guarantee that such patents will successfully preclude others from using technology that we rely upon. We have no knowledge of any infringement or patent litigation, threatened or filed at this time. It is possible that we may infringe on intellectual property rights of others without being aware of the infringement. If a third party believes that one of our products infringes on the third party's patent, it may sue us even if we have received our own patent protection for the technology. If we infringe the rights of a third party, we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages and compelled to defend against litigation. We may not be successful in obtaining foreign regulatory approvals or in arranging a business development, out-licensing or other venture to realize commercialization of our drug products outside of the United States. The approval procedures for the marketing of our new drug products, such as Triferic®, in foreign countries vary from country to country, can be difficult to obtain and carry all of the same risks as FDA approval. In particular, regulatory approval in foreign countries may require additional testing in 17 the applicable country, may otherwise be expensive to undertake and may take a long time to obtain. Even after foreign approvals are obtained, further delays may be encountered before products may be marketed. Many countries require additional governmental approval for price reimbursement under national health insurance systems. Even if we obtain the necessary foreign approval in a particular market, we do not have substantial expertise selling and marketing on an international level and therefore may not be successful in realizing commercial value from our products. Our strategy for addressing the need for expertise in obtaining foreign approvals and marketing in foreign markets is to out-license rights to Triferic® in markets outside the United States. However, we may not be successful in finding a partner or partners who will be willing to invest in Triferic® outside the United States. If we are not successful in out-licensing Triferic® outside of the United States or entering into some other business development arrangement to obtain the necessary approvals and market Triferic®, we may be forced to seek regulatory approval and market the product ourselves. If we elect to seek approval ourselves in certain markets, it may take longer than expected to obtain needed regulatory approvals and to market and manufacture Triferic®, and we may decide to delay or abandon development efforts in certain markets. Any such delay or abandonment, or any failure to receive one or more foreign approvals, may have a material adverse effect on the benefits otherwise expected from marketing in foreign countries. Our dialysis concentrate business is substantially dependent on a few customers that account for a substantial portion of our sales. The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow from our dialysis business and on our ability to market our new drug products. Our revenue is highly concentrated in a few customers and the loss of any of those customers could adversely affect our results of operations. One customer in particular accounted for nearly half of our sales in each of the last three years and for a substantial number of the clinics we serve. Our strategy is to develop new renal drugs and market them to our existing dialysis clinic customers. If we were to lose this customer or our relationship with any of our other major dialysis chain customers, it could have a substantial negative impact on the cash flow and operating results of our dialysis concentrate business and may have a detrimental impact on our ability to market our new drug products. We operate in a very competitive market against a substantially larger competitor with greater resources. There is intense competition in the hemodialysis product market and our primary competitor is a large diversified company which has substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, research and development and management resources than we do. We may not be able to successfully compete with them or other companies. Our primary competitor has historically used product bundling and low pricing as marketing techniques to capture market share of the products we sell and as we do not manufacture or sell the same breadth of products as our primary competitor, we may be at a disadvantage in competing against their marketing strategies. Furthermore, our primary competitor is vertically integrated and is the largest provider of dialysis services in the United States with approximately 37% of all U.S. patients treated by this company through its clinics. This competitor has routinely acquired smaller clinic chain operations that we served and may acquire more of our customers in the future. We may not be successful in maintaining our gross profit margins. A significant portion of our costs are for chemicals and fuel which are subject to pricing volatility based on demand and are highly influenced by the overall level of economic activity in the U.S. and abroad. These costs have risen each year and have had a negative effect on our gross margins. We may 18 realize future cost and pricing pressure which may cause our gross profit margins to decrease in the future and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our dialysis solutions products are distribution-intensive, resulting in a high cost to deliver relative to the selling prices of our products. The cost of diesel fuel represents a significant operating cost for us. If oil costs increase, we may be unable to recover those increased costs through higher pricing. Also, as we increase our business in certain markets and regions that are farther from our manufacturing facilities than we have historically served, we may incur additional costs that are greater than the additional revenue generated from these initiatives. Our customer mix may change to a less favorable customer base with lower gross profit margins. Our competitors have often used bundling techniques to sell a broad range of products and have often offered low prices on dialysis concentrate products to induce customers to purchase their other higher margin products, such as dialysis machines and dialyzers. It may be difficult for us to raise prices due to these competitive pressures. Our suppliers may increase their prices faster than we are able to raise our prices to offset such increases. We may have limited ability to gain a raw material pricing advantage by changing vendors for certain chemicals and packaging materials. As we increase our manufacturing and distribution infrastructure we may incur costs for an indefinite period that are greater than the incremental revenue we derive from these expansion efforts. We depend on government funding of health care, changes in which could impact our ability to be paid in full for our products, increase pricing pressures or cause consolidation in the dialysis provider market. Many of our customers receive the majority of their funding from the government and are supplemented by payments from private health care insurers. Our customers depend on Medicare and Medicaid funding to be viable businesses. A variety of changes to health insurance and reimbursement are included in health reform legislation enacted by Congress in recent years. Some of these changes could have a negative impact on Medicare and Medicaid funding, which fund the majority of dialysis costs in the United States, and on reimbursement protocols. If Medicare and Medicaid funding were to be materially decreased, our customers would be severely impacted, increasing our risk of not being paid in full by our customers. An increase in our exposure to uncollectible accounts could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In the United States, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 or "MIPPA" changed the dialysis reimbursement method from the prior practice of separately billed services and medications to a single bundled prospective rate for Medicare outpatient ESRD facilities beginning January 1, 2011, with full implementation by January 1, 2012. Most dialysis providers have adopted this method of reimbursement, which provides for a single payment per dialysis treatment compared to the current method consisting of a composite rate payment and separately billed drugs and services. We anticipate that dialysis providers will continue to seek ways to reduce their costs per treatment due to this change in reimbursement practice which could reduce our sales and profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of these changes to Medicare reimbursement, industry observers also anticipate increased consolidation in the dialysis provider market which has been largely unchecked by the Federal Trade Commission to date. Continued consolidation in providers will likely result in increased purchasing leverage for providers across all dialysis product categories and increased pricing pressure on all suppliers to the industry. 19 We will rely on third party suppliers for raw materials, packaging components and manufacturing of our drug products for our commercially marketed drug products once they are approved. We may not be able to obtain the raw materials, components and manufacturing capacity we need, or the cost of the materials, components and manufacturing capacity may be higher than expected, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our expected results of operations, financial position and cash flows. For our drug products, we will rely on unaffiliated third-party suppliers for raw materials, packaging components and manufacturing of our finished drug products. Certain of those raw materials and packaging components may be the proprietary products of those unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically cited in our drug application with regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from that specific source or sources and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency has approved such supplier. We may not be able to obtain needed raw materials, packaging components and manufacturing capacity for a variety of reasons, including among others: •regulatory requirements or action by regulatory agencies or others; •adverse financial or other strategic developments at or affecting the supplier or contract manufacturer; •unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials or packaging components; •failure to comply with cGMP standards which results in quality or product failures, adulteration, contamination and/or recall; •limitations in capacity of contract manufacturers; and, •changes in product demand. If we are unable to obtain the raw materials, components and manufacturing capacity we require, or if we are charged more than expected for these items, we may not be able to produce our drug products or our gross profit margins may be materially adversely affected. Health care reform could adversely affect our business. The federal and state governments in the United States, as well as many foreign governments, from time to time explore ways to reduce medical care costs through health care reform. The federal Medicare and Medicaid programs are facing financial challenges and are looking at ways to reduce the costs of the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Similarly, many states have large deficits which may prove unsustainable, resulting in defaults on state debt obligations which may ultimately result in the reduction or curtailment of health care benefits or state Medicaid reimbursement. In the United States, Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, referred to collectively as PPACA, in 2010 that has made significant changes to the health care payment and delivery system. The PPACA requires employers to provide employees with insurance coverage that meets minimum eligibility and coverage requirements or face penalties. The PPACA also includes provisions that impact the number of individuals with insurance coverage, including expansion of those eligible for Medicaid in some states, the types of coverage and level of health benefits that are required and the amount of payment providers performing health care services receive. The PPACA imposes implementation effective dates beginning in 2010 and extending through 2020. In addition, the PPACA imposes fees or excise taxes on pharmaceutical and device manufacturers based on their sales results. As a result, the Company was required to pay $0.8 million in excise taxes in 2013. The U.S. government faces structural deficits that may require changes to government funded healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid which may negatively impact customers of our products. On March 1, 2013, President Obama issued a sequestration order that imposed a 2% "across the board" reduction in Medicare reimbursement. Our sales, results of operations, cash flows and ability to commercialize our drug 20 products could be materially impacted by the PPACA, future health care reform or reduced Medicare and Medicaid spending by the federal government. Beginning in early 2014 and annually thereafter, device and pharmaceutical manufacturers are required to report to the FDA regarding certain financial relationships they have with physicians and teaching hospitals. This reporting requirement will increase governmental scrutiny on our contractual relationships with physicians and teaching hospitals and will increase the risk that inadvertent violations result in liability under the federal fraud and abuse laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We depend on key personnel, the loss of which could harm our ability to operate. Our success depends heavily on the efforts of Robert L. Chioini, a founder and our President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Ajay Gupta MD, our Chief Scientific Officer, Dr. Raymond D. Pratt, our Chief Medical Officer and Thomas E. Klema, our Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer. Mr. Chioini is primarily responsible for the strategic direction of the Company and for managing our sales and marketing efforts. Dr. Gupta is primarily responsible for discovery and development of new technologies. Dr. Pratt is primarily responsible for the clinical development, testing and regulatory approval of our products. None of our executive management are parties to a current employment agreement with the Company. If we lose the services of Mr. Chioini, Dr. Gupta, Dr. Pratt or Mr. Klema, our business, product development efforts, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is highly regulated, which increases our costs and results in risks relating to potential noncompliance. The testing, manufacture and sale of the products we manufacture and distribute are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and by other federal, state and foreign authorities. Before medical devices can be commercially marketed in the United States, the FDA must give either 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval for the devices. If we do not comply with these requirements, we may be subject to a variety of sanctions, including fines, injunctions, seizure of products, suspension of production, denial of future regulatory approvals, withdrawal of existing regulatory approvals and criminal prosecution. Our business could be adversely affected by any of these actions. Although our hemodialysis concentrates have been cleared by the FDA, it could rescind these clearances and any new products or modifications to our current products that we develop could fail to receive FDA clearance. If the FDA rescinds or denies any current or future clearances or approvals for our products, we would be prohibited from selling those products in the United States until we obtain such clearances or approvals. Our business would be adversely affected by any such prohibition, any delay in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals, and any limits placed by the FDA on our intended use. Our products are also subject to federal regulations regarding manufacturing quality. In addition, our new products will be subject to review and approval by the FDA. The process of obtaining such approval is time-consuming and expensive. In addition, changes in applicable regulatory requirements could significantly increase the costs of our operations and may reduce our profitability if we are unable to recover any such cost increases through higher prices. We may not have sufficient products liability insurance. As a supplier of medical products, we may face potential liability from a person who claims that he or she suffered harm as a result of using our products. We maintain products liability insurance in the amount of $5 million per occurrence and $5 million in the aggregate. We cannot be sure that it will remain economical to retain our current level of insurance, that our current insurance will remain available or that such insurance would be sufficient to protect us against liabilities associated with our 21 business, particularly if it expands substantially in the wake of the potential FDA approval of Triferic®. We may be sued, and we may have significant legal expenses that are not covered by insurance. In addition, our reputation could be damaged by product liability litigation and that could harm our marketing ability. Any litigation could also hurt our ability to retain products liability insurance or make such insurance more expensive. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by an uninsured or inadequately insured product liability claim in the future. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Shares eligible for future sale may negatively affect the market price of our common shares. Any additional future sales of common shares by us may have a negative effect on the market price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares (including shares issued upon the exercise of stock options or warrants), or the possibility of such sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and also impair our ability to raise capital through an offering of our equity securities in the future. As of December 31, 2013, an additional 983,071 shares may be issued upon exercise of outstanding warrants. In the future, we may issue additional shares or warrants in connection with investments or for other purposes considered advisable by our Board of Directors. Any substantial sale of our common shares may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and may dilute the economic value and voting rights of existing shareholders. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, there were 4,513,567 shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding and exercisable stock options, 1,714,433 shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options that are not yet exercisable and 1,409,165 additional shares available for grant under our 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan. Additional grants have been made in 2014. The market price of the common shares may be depressed by the potential exercise of these options or warrants. The holders of these options and warrants are likely to exercise them when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional capital on more favorable terms than those provided by the options. Our stock price could be volatile. Our stock price, like the market price of many stocks in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, is volatile. Events such as announcements around clinical testing results or regulatory approval of a product, as well as the reporting of sales, operating results and cash resources, may cause significant fluctuations in our share price. In addition, third parties may engage in trading strategies that result in intentional volatility to our share price, given our relatively small public market float. We could have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, which, until remedied, could result in errors in our financial statements requiring restatement of our financial statements. As a result, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. SEC rules require us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. It is possible, due to the small size of our accounting staff, that we may identify control deficiencies in the future that constitute one or more material weaknesses. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements and in our disclosure that could require restatements. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and in our disclosure, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. No system of internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must 22 reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Structural and anti-takeover provisions reduce the likelihood that you will receive a takeover premium. The Board of Directors has the authority, without shareholder approval, to issue shares of preferred stock having such rights, preferences and privileges as the Board of Directors may determine. Any such issuance of preferred stock could, under certain circumstances, have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may adversely affect the rights of holders of common shares, including by decreasing the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to holders of common shares and adversely affect the relative voting power or other rights of the holders of the common shares. In addition, we may become subject to Michigan statutes regulating business combinations which might also hinder or delay a change in control. Anti-takeover provisions that could be included in the preferred stock when issued and the Michigan statutes regulating business combinations can have a depressive effect on the market price of our common shares and can limit shareholders' ability to receive a premium on their shares by discouraging takeover and tender offers. In addition, amounts outstanding under our secured loan agreement must be prepaid in the event of a change in control of the Company. Our shareholders do not have the right to cumulative voting in the election of directors. Moreover, our directors serve staggered three-year terms, and directors may not be removed without cause. These provisions could have an anti-takeover effect by making it more difficult to acquire us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, or to remove incumbent directors. These provisions could delay, deter or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in his or her best interests, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the common shares. We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Since inception, we have not paid any cash dividend on our common shares and do not anticipate paying such dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends upon our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and requirements, future prospects, restrictions in future financing agreements, business conditions and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. We intend to retain earnings and any cash resources to finance our operations. Moreover, our secured loan agreement prohibits the payment of dividends. Therefore, it is highly unlikely we will pay cash dividends. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 