ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our revenues are highly concentrated in a single customer, Shanghai Huaye, and our business will be harmed if Shanghai Huaye reduces its orders from us. Approximately 43.19% of our revenue was derived from Shanghai Huaye in fiscal year 2008, which acts as a distributor of our products as well as one of our suppliers. If we cease to do business with Shanghai Huaye at current levels and are unable to generate additional sales with new and existing customers that purchase a similar amount of our products, our revenue and net income would decline considerably. Any decrease in the availability, or increase in the cost, of raw materials could materially affect our earnings. Our operations depend heavily on the availability of various raw materials and energy resources, including steel coil, zinc, oil paint, electricity and natural gas. Steel coil has historically made up approximately 90% of our total cost of sales. The availability of raw materials and energy resources may decrease and their prices may fluctuate greatly. We purchase a large portion of our raw materials from our affiliate Shanghai Huaye and we have long-term relationships with several other suppliers. However, if Shanghai Huaye or any other important suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with raw materials on terms favorable to us, we may be unable to produce certain products. This could result in a decrease in profit and damage to our reputation in our industry. In the event our raw material and energy costs increase, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers in full or at all. Any increase in the prices for raw materials or energy resources could materially increase our costs and therefore lower our earnings. Our industry is highly fragmented and competitive, and increased competition could reduce our operating income. The steel manufacturing and processing business is highly fragmented and competitive. We compete with a number of other steel manufacturers and processors in China, on a region-by-region basis, and with foreign steel manufacturers on a world wide basis. Our goal is to market our products to customers who demand the highest quality products and precision in the end product so we compete primarily on the precision and range of achievable tolerances, the quality of our products and the raw materials used in our products. We compete with companies of various sizes, some of which have more established brand names and relationships in certain markets we serve than we do. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or offer services at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our margins and operating income. A downturn or negative changes in the highly volatile steel industry will harm our business and profitability. The steel industry as a whole is cyclical and pricing can be volatile as a result of general economic conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs and currency exchange rates. These macroeconomic factors have historically resulted in wide fluctuations in the steel industry both in China and globally. In our case, future economic downturns, stagnant economies or currency fluctuations in China or globally could decrease the demand for products or increase the amount of imports of steel into China, which could negatively impact our sales, margins and profitability. 9 Management has determined that there is a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting which even if quickly remedied, could weaken the market’s confidence in our financial statements and lead to fluctuations in our stock price. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must also attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of our internal controls. Under the current law, we are subject to the requirement to provide management report on the company’s controls over financial reporting commencing with our fiscal year ending June 30, 2008 and a report of our management is included under Item 9A of this annual report. The auditor attestation is not required until our annual report for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010 assuming our filing status remains as a smaller reporting company. This process will be expensive and time consuming, and will require significant attention of management. The portion of this process completed thus far has revealed material weaknesses in internal controls that will require remediation. See “Item 9A. Control and Procedures.” The remediation process may also be expensive and time consuming, and even though the management is committed to improving its internal controls, management can give no assurance that the remediation effort will be completed on time or be effective. In addition, management can give no assurance that additional material weaknesses in internal controls will not be discovered. Management also can give no assurance that the process of evaluation and the auditor’s attestation will be completed on time. The disclosure of a material weakness, even if quickly remedied, could weaken the market’s confidence in our financial statements and lead to fluctuations in our stock price, especially if a restatement of financial statements for past periods is required. In addition, if we are unable to adequately design our internal control systems, or prepare an “internal control report” to the satisfaction of our auditors, our auditors may issue a qualified opinion on our financial statements. We may be unable to fund the substantial ongoing capital and maintenance expenditures that our operations require. Our operations are capital intensive and our business strategy may require additional substantial capital investment. We require capital for building new production lines, acquiring new equipment, maintaining the condition of our existing equipment and complying with environmental laws and regulations. We plan to fund our capital expenditures from operating cash flow and our credit facilities and may require additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you, however, that financing will be available or, if financing is available, it may result in increased interest and amortization expense, increased leverage, dilution and decreased income available to fund further expansion. In addition, future debt financings may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and render us more vulnerable to economic downturns. If we are unable to fund our capital requirements, we may be unable to implement our business plan, and our financial performance may suffer. Unexpected equipment failures may damage our business due to production curtailments or shutdowns. Our manufacturing processes are extremely specialized and depend on critical pieces of equipment, such as air knife machines, welding tools and apparatus, color-coating machines, roll mills, ABB roll and tension knives. This machinery is highly specialized and cannot be repaired or replaced without significant expense and time delay. On occasion, our equipment may be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures which may result in material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production. Interruptions in production capabilities will inevitably increase production costs and reduce our sales and earnings. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or adverse weather conditions. Furthermore, any interruption in production capability may require us to make large capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. Although we have business interruption insurance, we cannot provide any assurance that the insurance will cover all losses that we experience as a result of the equipment failures. In addition, longer-term business disruption could result in a loss of customers. If this were to occur, our future sales levels, and therefore our profitability, could be adversely affected. Our revenue will decrease if there is less demand for construction materials or electrical household appliances. Our products mainly serve as key components in construction materials and electrical household appliances. Therefore, we are subject to the general changes in economic conditions affecting the construction and household appliance segments of the economy. Demand for our products is typically affected by a number of economic factors, including, but not limited to, consumer interest rates, consumer confidence, retail trends, sales of existing homes, and the level of mortgage financing. If there is a decline in economic activity in China and the other markets in which we operate or a decrease of sales of construction materials and electrical householder appliances, demand for our products and our revenue will likewise decrease. 10 Environmental regulations impose substantial costs and limitations on our operations. We are subject to various national and local environmental laws and regulations in China concerning issues such as air emissions, wastewater discharges, and solid waste management and disposal. These laws and regulations can restrict or limit our operations and expose us to liability and penalties for non-compliance. While we believe that our facilities are in material compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, the risks of substantial unanticipated costs and liabilities related to compliance with these laws and regulations are an inherent part of our business. It is possible that future conditions may develop, arise or be discovered that create new environmental compliance or remediation liabilities and costs. While we believe that we can comply with existing environmental legislation and regulatory requirements and that the costs of compliance have been included within budgeted cost estimates, compliance may prove to be more limiting and costly than anticipated. If our customers and/or the ultimate consumers of products that use our products successfully assert product liability claims against us due to defects in our products, our operating results may suffer and our reputation may be harmed. Our products are widely applied in the manufacturing of many products, including electrical household appliances, medical instruments and large industrial equipment. Significant property damage, personal injuries and even death can result from malfunctioning products. If our products are not properly manufactured or installed and/or if people are injured as a result of our products, we could be subject to claims for damages based on theories of product liability and other legal theories in some jurisdictions in which our products are sold. The costs and resources to defend such claims could be substantial and, if such claims are successful, we could be responsible for paying some or all of the damages. We do not have product liability insurance. The publicity surrounding these sorts of claims is also likely to damage our reputation, regardless of whether such claims are successful. Any of these consequences resulting from defects in our products would hurt our operating results and stockholder value. We might fail to adequately protect our intellectual property and third parties may claim that our products infringe upon their intellectual property. As part of our business strategy, we intend to accelerate our investment in new technologies in an effort to strengthen and differentiate our product portfolio and make our manufacturing processes more efficient. As a result, we believe that the protection of our intellectual property will become increasingly important to our business. Currently, we have one patent application pending. We expect to rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights to provide protection in this regard, but this protection might be inadequate. For example, our pending or future patent applications might not be approved or, if allowed, they might not be of sufficient strength or scope. Conversely, third parties might assert that our technologies infringe their proprietary rights. In either case, litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and whether or not we are ultimately successful, the litigation could hurt our business and financial condition. Expansion of our business may strain our management and operational infrastructure and impede our ability to meet any increased demand for our steel finishing fabrication products. Our business plan is to grow our operations by meeting the anticipated growth in demand for existing products and by introducing new product offerings. Our subsidiary, Jiangsu Cold-Rolled, has recently completed construction of several new production lines and has been put into operation, but lacks a proven operational history. Growth in our business may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. Our business growth also presents numerous risks and challenges, including: · our ability to successfully and rapidly expand sales to potential customers in response to potentially increasing demand; · the costs associated with such growth, which are difficult to quantify, but could be significant; and · rapid technological change. To accommodate this growth and compete effectively, we may need to obtain additional funding to improve information systems, procedures and controls and expand, train, motivate and manage existing and additional employees. Funding may not be available in a sufficient amount or on favorable terms, if at all. If we are not able to manage these activities and implement these strategies successfully to expand to meet any increased demand, our operating results could suffer. 11 Our current Chief Executive Officer and Chief Technology Officer have limited experience in their positions and may not perform at the level which we demand and expect. Our current Chief Executive Officer, Lifang Chen, and our current Chief Technology Officer, Xun Zhang, have recently been appointed to such positions. Ms. Chen was appointed as our Chief Executive Officer in May 2008 and Mr. Zhang was appointed as our Chief Technology Officer in July 2007. While we believe Ms. Chen and Mr. Zhang will provide excellent management and leadership for our company, neither Ms. Chen nor Mr. Zhang has served in these positions in the past for a company comparable to ours, so their experience is limited and they may not perform to the standards we expect and demand. We depend heavily on key personnel, and turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, including Lifang Chen, our Chief Executive Officer, Yongfei Jiang, our Chief Financial Officer and Xun Zhang, our Chief Technology Officer. They also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, marketing and sales and support personnel for our operations. If we lose a key employee, if a key employee fails to perform in his or her current position, or if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees as needed, our business could suffer. Significant turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete our institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team. We depend on the skills and abilities of these key employees in managing the manufacturing, technical, marketing and sales aspects of our business, any part of which could be harmed by turnover in the future. Ms. Lifang Chen’s association with Shanghai Huaye could pose a conflict of interest. Ms. Lifang Chen, our chair of the board of directors and beneficial owner of 79.93% of our common stock, also beneficially owns 100% of Shanghai Huaye, which is a major distributor of our products and provider of our raw materials. As a result, conflicts of interest may arise from time to time. We will attempt to resolve any such conflicts of interest in our favor. Our officers and directors are accountable to us and our shareholders as fiduciaries, which requires that such officers and directors exercise good faith and integrity in handling our affairs. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in China, which may experience corruption. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our company, because these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. Also, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. 12 RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate most of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · a higher level of government involvement; · a early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · a rapid growth rate; · a higher level of control over foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. As the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our services and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiary in the PRC. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, all of our executive officers and all of our directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to affect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese operations and subsidiaries. If we are found to have failed to comply with applicable laws, we may incur additional expenditures or be subject to significant fines and penalties. Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to us. However, many PRC laws and regulations are uncertain in their scope, and the implementation of such laws and regulations in different localities could have significant differences. In certain instances, local implementation rules and/or the actual implementation are not necessarily consistent with the regulations at the national level. Although we strive to comply with all the applicable PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government authorities will not later determine that we have not been in compliance with certain laws or regulations. 13 In addition, our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these and other applicable laws and regulations in China could subject us to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, as well as civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of our products. It is possible that changes to such laws or more rigorous enforcement of such laws or with respect to our current or past practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, additional environmental, health or safety issues relating to matters that are not currently known to management may result in unanticipated liabilities and expenditures. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales revenue effectively. All our sales revenue and expenses are denominated in RMB. Under PRC law, the RMB is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC operating subsidiary may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenue will be denominated in RMB, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by PRC operating subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC government authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our PRC operating subsidiaries borrow foreign currency through loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance the subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect their ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Because substantially all of our earnings and cash assets are denominated in RMB and the net proceeds from this offering will be denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the RMB will affect the relative purchasing power of these proceeds, our balance sheet and our earnings per share in U.S. dollars following this offering. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue after this offering that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. 14 Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, some of our raw materials and major equipment are imported. In the event that the U.S. dollars appreciate against RMB, our costs will increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increases on to our customers, our profitability and operating results will suffer. In addition, since our sales to international customers are growing rapidly, we are increasingly subject to the risk of foreign currency depreciation. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our businesses. Substantially all of our revenues are earned by our PRC subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to their offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividend by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Each of our PRC subsidiaries is also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of our annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in said fund reaches 50% of our registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Under the New EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC stockholders. China passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. Because the New EIT Law and its implementing rules are new, no official interpretation or application of this new “resident enterprise” classification is available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. If the PRC tax authorities determine that Sutor Technology Group Limited is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on offering proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC stockholders from transferring our shares. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the 2008 tax year and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. 15 If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. The M&A Rule establishes more complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated the Provisions Regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors (the “M&A Rule”), which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Rule establishes additional procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the PRC Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction and in some situations, require approval of the PRC Ministry of Commerce when a foreign investor takes control of a Chinese domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. The M&A Rule also requires PRC Ministry of Commerce anti-trust review of any change-of-control transactions involving certain types of foreign acquirers. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the PRC Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us. We are a Nevada holding company and most of our assets are located outside of the United States. Most of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Although the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are generally provided for under the PRC Civil Procedures Law. Courts in China may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. China does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security or the public interest. So it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK Certain of our stockholders hold a significant percentage of our outstanding voting securities. Ms. Lifang Chen, our Chairman, is the beneficial owner of approximately 79.93% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, she possesses significant influence and can elect a majority of our board of directors and authorize or prevent proposed significant corporate transactions. Her ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. 16 Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market and this low trading volume may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our common stock started trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “SUTR” in February 2008. The trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies quoted on the Nasdaq stock market. Limited trading volume will subject our shares of common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to you. Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation may make it more difficult for a third party to effect a change- in-control. Our articles of incorporation authorize the board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the board of directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights and redemption rights provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control, which in turn could prevent the stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock is volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when you want to sell your holdings. The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. For instance, between July 1, 2007 and June 30, 2008, the closing bid price of our common stock, as reported on the markets on which our securities have traded, ranged between $3.00 and $9.42. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. These factors include: · our earnings releases, actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors; · changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; · speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; · significant developments relating to our relationships with our customers or suppliers; · stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the security and surveillance parts or security and surveillance industries; · customer demand for our products; · investor perceptions of the steel industries in general and our company in particular; · the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; · general economic conditions and trends; · major catastrophic events; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles; · loss of external funding sources; · sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant stockholders; and · additions or departures of key personnel. 17 Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. For example, in July 2008, the securities markets in the United States, China and other jurisdictions experienced the largest decline in share prices since September 2001. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 