Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company could experience an increase in loan losses, which would reduce the Company’s earnings. As the nation continues to suffer from an economic recession, real estate prices remain under pressure in the Company’s market. Furthermore, elevated levels of unemployment have made it difficult for many consumers to meet their monthly obligations. The deployment of military personnel out of Fort Campbell to the Middle East may reduce both demand for and pricing of all types of real estate in the Company’s largest market. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. As discussed in Footnote 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has significant exposure to various types of real estate loans, including commercial real estate, land and land development loans, construction loans, multi-family 28 real estate and loans for residential homes. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and our industry has seen above average loan loss levels for approximately eighteen months. While the Company believes that its loan underwriting standards have been and remain sound, the Company has experienced an increase in charge offs and non-performing loans. To the extent charge offs exceed our financial models, increased amounts charged to the provision for loan losses would reduce net income. Rapidly changing interest rate environments could reduce our net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income. Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of our net income. Interest rates are the key drivers of the Company’s net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in the maturities of the Company’s assets and liabilities. Furthermore, substantially higher rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” Liquidity needs could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company relies on dividends from the Bank as a primary source of funds. The Bank’s primary source of funds is customer deposits and cash flows from investment instruments and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source, they are subject to the ability of the borrowers to repay their loans. The ability of the borrowers to repay their loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting the business environment, natural disasters and various other factors. Cash flows from the investment portfolio may be affected by changes in interest rates, resulting in excessive levels of cash flow during periods of declining interest rates and lower levels of cash flow during periods of rising interest rates. Deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including both the national market and local competitive interest rate environment, local and national economic conditions, natural disasters and other various events. Accordingly, the Company may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include the FHLB advances, brokered deposits and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. The Company may also pledge investments as collateral to borrow money from third parties. In certain cases, the Company may sell investment instruments for sizable losses to meet liquidity needs, hurting net income. While the Company believes that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity needs. The financial industry is very competitive. We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services throughout our market area. Our competitors include other community banks, regional and super-regional banking institutions, national banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies, brokerage companies, and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than HopFed Bancorp, Inc. Inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our revenues and net income. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting, hiring, and training expenses, resulting in lower net income. 29 The Company is subject to extensive regulation that can limit or restrict its activities. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Company’s regulatory compliance is costly. Certain types of activities, including the declaration and payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, lending (including the amount and types of loans originated), interest rates charged, and interest rates paid are subject to regulatory approval and may be limited by regulation or the supervisory authority of the regulators. The Company currently is subject to a restriction that it will not declare any future common stock dividend without prior Office of Thrift Supervision approval. The Company is also subject to capitalization guidelines established by its regulators, which require it and the Bank to maintain adequate capital to support its and the Bank’s growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and the Company cannot predict the effects of these changes on its business. To the extent activities of the Company and/or the Bank are restricted or limited by regulation or regulators’ supervisory authority, the Company’s future profitability may be adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ Global Market that are now and will be applicable to the Company, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, the Company has experienced, and may continue to experience, greater compliance cost. Even though the Company’s common stock is currently traded on The NASDAQ National Market, the trading volume in the Company’s common stock has been low and the sale of substantial amounts of its common stock in the public market could depress the price of the Company’s common stock. The trading volume of the Company’s common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on The NASDAQ Global Market or other stock exchanges. Thinly traded stocks, such as the Company’s, can be more volatile than stocks trading in an active public market. Because of this, the Company stockholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of its common stock in the market, or availability of shares of its common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market prices of the Company’s common stock. The Company, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of its common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sale in the market, would not cause the price of its common stock to decline or impair the Company’s ability to raise capital through sales of its common stock. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to its performance. General market prices declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. The current banking crisis, including the enactment of Emergency Economic Stabilization Action (EESA) and American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), have significantly affected our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or stock price. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers seeming without regard to those issuer’s underlying financial strength. EESA, which established the TARP, was signed into law in October 2008. As part of TARP, the Treasury established the Capital Purchase Program (CPP) to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of preferred shares and other financial instruments with the stated purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On December 12, 2008, the Company accepted an $18.4 million treasury investment of preferred stock with terms that included a 5% dividend that increases to 9% after five years. The Company issued 243,816 common stock warrants that are immediately issued and have a strike price of $11.32 and have a ten year maturity. 30 On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed ARRA, an economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for a broad range of infrastructure, energy, health and educational needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and the ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and the continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common shares. In February 2009, the FDIC established a revised rate structure for all member banks. The rate structure includes significant increases in quarterly fees charged to banks as well as a one-time fee of approximately $480,000 that was charged September 30, 2009 for deposit balances at June 30, 2009. In addition, the Company was required to prepay approximately $4.3 million in fees to the FDIC, representing estimated quarterly fees for the three month periods beginning October 1, 2009, and ending December 31, 2012. The revised rate structure will result in a significant increase in operating expenses and lower levels of net income. The Company can not determine the extent of future regulator fee increases and emergency assessments required by the FDIC. The Company conducts virtually all of its business activities in a geographically concentrated area of Middle and West Tennessee and Western Kentucky. The Company operates eighteen offices located in Middle Tennessee and Western Kentucky. The Company maintains significant business relationships in the markets in which it operates as well as the communities adjoining our offices. Therefore, the Company’s success is directly tied to the economic viability of our markets which may not be representative of the country as a whole. In 2009, the Company’s market had unemployment rates ranging from 10% to 15%. While the Company believes that its credit quality has been strong given the current environment, continued economic stress in the market may result in an increase in non-performing loans and charge offs. Given the limited geographic footprint of our Company, the economic conditions in our marketplace may not be reflective of the entire nation. Management’s analysis of the necessary funding for the allowance for loan loss account may be incorrect or may suddenly change, resulting in lower earnings. The funding of the allowance for loan loss account is the most significant estimate made by management in its financial reporting to shareholders and regulators. If negative changes to the performance of the Company’s loan portfolio were to occur, management may find it necessary or be required to funding the allowance for loan loss account through additional charges to the Company’s provision for loan loss expense. These changes may occur suddenly and be dramatic in nature. These changes are likely to affect the Company’s financial performance, capital levels and stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 31 