Risk Factors The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks are not the only ones that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. General economic and other conditions, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance. General economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance. Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, higher labor and healthcare costs, unfavorable foreign exchange rates and economic factors that adversely affect consumer demand for the merchandise we offer, change the mix of products sold to one with a lower average gross margin, result in increased cost of sales, slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory could adversely affect the financial performance of our Wal-Mart Stores and SAM’S CLUBs operations in the United States. High levels of unemployment, inflation, changes in tax and other laws, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in those countries. We may face impediments to our expansion in the United States, including conversions of Discount Stores into Supercenters. The growth in the net sales and operating net income of our Wal-Mart Stores segment and our SAM’S CLUB segment depends to a substantial degree on our expansion programs. Our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the United States and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. Our ability to open additional Discount Stores, Supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and SAM’S CLUBs and to convert Discount Stores into Supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert Discount Stores into Supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units. Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our Discount Stores into Supercenters. If we are unable to open new Discount Stores, Supercenters, Neighborhood Markets or SAM’S CLUBs or continue to convert Discount Stores into Supercenters, our financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Impediments to the expansion of our International operations could adversely affect our financial performance. Our business strategy for our International segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing International business, as well as by opening of new units in the countries in which we are currently operating. As in the United States, our ability to open new stores in our current markets depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units. In addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units in certain markets. If we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our International segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected. We can give no assurance that we will continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices or be successful in consummating the acquisition of any such candidate. In addition, while we believe we will be ultimately able to integrate successfully any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect our financial performance. 13 Failure to attract and retain qualified Associates and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance. Our ability to continue to expand our operations in the United States and abroad depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified Associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs generally while controlling our Associate wage and related labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel or if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be affected adversely. We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators. The retail business is highly competitive. Each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products, services and other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. Our Wal-Mart Stores segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Our SAM’s CLUB segment competes with other wholesale club operators. Internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarket, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection, services offered to customers, location and price. Our ability to offer value and service to our customers through various programs, including EDLP, Rollbacks, Store Within a Store and Store of the Community, have allowed us to successfully compete against our competitors in most instances. Where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods sold. Our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could affect our financial performance. See “Item 1. Business.” below for additional discussion of our competitive situation. Certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. Such consolidation may result in competitors with greater financial resources, better access to merchandise, greater market penetration and other improvements in their competitive positions. Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Risks associated with the vendors from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our financial performance. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. All of our vendors must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required vendor standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified vendors who meet our standards, and access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced outside the United States. Political instability, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our vendor standards, merchandise quality issues, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs, inflation and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other issues affecting our vendors could adversely affect our financial performance. Our International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate. We currently conduct operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Mexico, Puerto Rico, South Korea and the United Kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in China. We also own a minority interest in Seiyu, a retailer in Japan. During fiscal 2005, our International operations generated 19.7% of our net sales. Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, currency regulations and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. In addition, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our International operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may impact our International operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the United States. Additional risks inherent in our International operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of 14 managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. The various risks inherent in doing business in the United States generally also exist when doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may affect our financial condition and results of operation. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. We are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. In addition, we are a defendant in Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all past and present female employees in all of our retail stores and wholesale clubs in the United States. The class as certified currently includes approximately 1.6 million present and former female Associates. The plaintiffs in this case allege we have engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages, and attorneys’ fees. The U.S. District Court hearing this case has issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification. We discuss this case and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and in Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information Our corporate website is located at www.walmartstores.com. We make copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC available to investors on or through our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. Our SEC filings can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website, the address of which is: http://investor.walmartstores.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=112761&p=irol-sec. Our Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics and our Statement of Ethics can be located in the Corporate Governance section of the Investor Relations webpage at http://investor.walmartstores.com. These documents, as well as our SEC filings are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy from our Investor Relations Department. 