ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results could be adversely affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, the most significant of which are described below. Our revenue is substantially dependent on spending by advertisers, and a decrease in such spending would adversely affect our revenue and operating results. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from sales of advertisements and program sponsorships on our stations to local and national advertisers. We do not obtain long-term commitments from our advertisers and advertisers may cancel, reduce or postpone advertisements without penalty, which could adversely affect our revenue. Generally, advertising tends to decline during an economic recession or downturn. As a result, our advertising revenue is likely to be adversely affected by a recession or downturn in the United States economy, the economy of an individual geographic market in which we own or operate radio stations, or other events or circumstances that adversely affect advertising activity. We may lose audience share and advertising revenue to our competitors. Our radio stations compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other radio stations and station groups, and other media such as broadcast television, newspapers, magazines, cable television, satellite television, satellite radio, outdoor advertising, the Internet and direct mail. Adverse changes in audience ratings and market shares could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Larger radio broadcasting companies with more financial resources than we have may enter the markets in which we operate. Other stations may change their programming format or engage in aggressive promotional campaigns to compete directly with our stations for audiences and advertisers. This competition could result in lower ratings and advertising revenue for us or cause us to increase promotion and other expenses and, consequently, lower our earnings and cash flow. Changes in population, demographics, audience tastes and other factors beyond our control could also cause changes in audience ratings or market share. Failure by us to respond successfully to these changes could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising revenue. A disproportionate share of our net revenue comes from a small number of markets. Five of the 22 markets in which we own radio stations accounted for approximately 50% of our radio station net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006. The Houston and Washington, DC markets accounted for approximately 25% of our consolidated net revenue for the 2006 year. Significant declines in one or more of these markets (Houston, Washington, DC, Atlanta, Baltimore and Los Angeles) could have a material adverse effect on our overall performance. We can provide no assurance that significant declines will not occur in other markets from which we derive a significant portion of our revenue. If we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate businesses pursuant to our diversification strategy, our business and prospects may be adversely impacted. We are pursuing a strategy of acquiring and investing in other forms of media that complement our core radio business in an effort to grow our business and diversify our revenue streams. This strategy depends on our ability to find suitable opportunities and obtain acceptable financing. Negotiating transactions and integrating an acquired business could result in significant costs and use of management’s time and resources. In addition, the transactions we pursue may prove to be unprofitable. We can provide no assurance that our diversification strategy will be successful. We must respond to the rapid changes in technology, services and standards, in order to remain competitive. Standards in the radio broadcasting industry are evolving and new media technologies are emerging. We cannot assure you that we will have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services to 21 compete with these new technologies. Several new media technologies are being, or have been, developed, including the following: • satellite delivered digital audio radio service, which has resulted in the introduction of several new satellite radio services with sound quality equivalent to that of compact discs; • audio programming by cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, Internet content providers and other digital audio broadcast formats; and • digital audio and video content available for listening and/or viewing on the Internet and/or available for downloading to portable devices. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt successfully to these new media technologies. The loss of key personnel, including on-air talent, could disrupt the management and operations of our business. Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers and other key employees, including on-air personalities. We believe that the combination of skills and experience possessed by our executive officers could be difficult to replace, and that the loss of one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on us, including the impairment of our ability to execute our business strategy. In addition several of our on-air personalities and syndicated radio programs hosts have large loyal audiences in their respective broadcast areas and may be significantly responsible for the ranking of a station. The loss of such on-air personalities could impact the ability of the station to sell advertising and our ability to derive revenue from syndicating programs hosted by them. We cannot be assured that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current audiences. Our business strategy could be hampered by a lack of attractive acquisition opportunities, difficulties in integrating those acquisitions or delays in completing divestitures. Our business strategy partially depends on our ability to identify attractive radio stations in strategic markets at reasonable prices and to divest of radio stations that are no longer strategic to our core business. Some of the material risks that could hinder our ability to implement this strategy include: • reduction in the number of suitable acquisition targets due to increased competition for acquisition; • inability to find buyers for radio stations we target for sale at attractive prices due to decreasing market prices for radio stations; • failure or delays in completing acquisitions or divestitures due to difficulties in obtaining required regulatory approval, including possible difficulties by the seller or buyer in obtaining antitrust approval for acquisitions in markets where we already own multiple stations or establishing compliance with broadcast ownership rules; • difficulty in integrating operations and systems and managing a large group of radio stations and diverse businesses; • failure of some acquisitions to prove profitable or generate sufficient cash flow; and • inability to finance acquisitions on acceptable terms, through incurring debt or issuing common stock. Our business depends on maintaining our licenses with the FCC. We could be prevented from operating a radio station if we fail to maintain its license. We are required to maintain radio broadcasting licenses issued by the FCC. These licenses are ordinarily issued for a maximum term of eight years and are renewable. Our radio broadcasting licenses expire at various times through August 1, 2014. Interested third parties may challenge our renewal applications. In addition, we are subject to extensive and changing regulation by the FCC with respect to such matters as programming, indecency standards, technical operations, employment and business practices. If we or any of our significant stockholders, officers, or 22 directors violate the FCC’s rules and regulations or the Communications Act, or is convicted of a felony, the FCC may commence a proceeding to impose fines or sanctions upon us. Examples of possible sanctions include the imposition of fines, the renewal of one or more of our broadcasting licenses for a term of fewer than eight years or the revocation of our broadcast licenses. If the FCC were to issue an order denying a license renewal application or revoking a license, we would be required to cease operating the radio station covered by the license only after we had exhausted administrative and judicial review without success. There is significant uncertainty regarding the FCC’s media ownership rules, and such rules could restrict our ability to acquire radio stations. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies limit the number of broadcasting properties that any person or entity may own (directly or by attribution) in any market and require FCC approval for transfers of control and assignments of licenses. The FCC’s media ownership rules remain in flux and subject to further agency and court proceedings. (See “Business — Federal Regulation of Radio Broadcasting.”) In addition to the FCC media ownership rules, the outside media interests of our officers and directors could limit our ability to acquire stations. The filing of petitions or complaints against Radio One or any FCC licensee from which we are acquiring a station could result in the FCC delaying the grant of, or refusing to grant or imposing conditions on its consent to the assignment or transfer of control of licenses. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies also impose limitations on non-U.S. ownership and voting of our capital stock. Increased enforcement by FCC of its indecency rules against the broadcast industry. In 2004, the FCC indicated that it was enhancing its enforcement efforts relating to the regulation of indecency. Congress has increased the penalties for broadcasting indecent programming and potentially subject broadcasters to license revocation, renewal or qualification proceedings in the event that they broadcast indecent material. In addition, the FCC’s heightened focus on the indecency regulatory scheme, against the broadcast industry generally, may encourage third parties to oppose our license renewal applications or applications for consent to acquire broadcast stations. Future asset impairment of our FCC licenses or goodwill could have an adverse effect. Goodwill and intangible assets totaled approximately $2.0 billion at December 31, 2006, primarily attributable to acquisitions in recent years. We are required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” to test our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment at least annually. Impairment is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible over its fair value. Impairment may result from deterioration in our performance, changes in anticipated future cash flows, changes in business plans, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, or other factors. The amount of any impairment must be expensed as a charge to operations. As a result of impairment testing performed in the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company recognized an approximate $63.3 million impairment charge to its goodwill and radio broadcast licenses in 2006 for its Los Angeles and Louisville markets. Any future determination of further impairment of our FCC licenses and or goodwill could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Two common stockholders have a majority voting interest in Radio One and have the power to control matters on which our common stockholders may vote, and their interests may conflict with yours. As of April 30, 2007, our Chairperson and her son, our President and CEO, collectively held approximately 83.3% of the outstanding voting power of our common stock. As a result, our Chairperson and the CEO will control our management and policies and most decisions involving Radio One, including transactions involving a change of control, such as a sale or merger. In addition, certain covenants in our debt instruments require that our Chairperson and the CEO maintain a specified ownership and voting interest in Radio One, and prohibit other parties’ voting interests from exceeding specified amounts. In addition, the TV One operating agreement provides for adverse consequences to Radio One in the event our Chairperson and CEO fail to maintain a specified ownership and voting 23 interest in us. Our Chairperson and the CEO have agreed to vote their shares together in elections of members to the board of directors. Our substantial level of debt could limit our ability to grow and compete. As of March 31, 2007, we had indebtedness of approximately $937.5 million. In June 2005, we borrowed $437.5 million under our credit facility to retire all outstanding obligations under our previous credit facilities. Draw downs of revolving loans under the credit facility are subject to compliance with provisions of our credit agreement, including, but not limited to, the financial covenants. As of December 31, 2006, we are permitted to borrow up to an additional approximately $31.3 million under our new credit facility. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” A portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates. Increases in interest rates could increase the cost of our credit facilities. We have entered into various interest rate hedges to reduce our overall exposure to variable interest rates, consistent with the Credit Agreement which requires that at least 50% of our debt obligations be fixed rate in nature. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect us for various reasons, including limiting our ability to: • obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt payments or other corporate purposes; • have sufficient funds available for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes, after paying debt service; • compete with competitors that have less debt than we do; and • react to changing market conditions, changes in our industry and economic downturns. The foregoing list is not exhaustive. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact our business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, our debt agreements contain covenants that may limit our ability to borrow additional money, purchase or sell assets, incur liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, consolidation or mergers, and other restrictive covenants that may limit our operational flexibility. We could incur adverse effects from our voluntary stock option grants review and resulting financial restatements. As described in the Explanatory Note and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we have recorded additional stock-based compensation expense and related tax effects with regard to certain past stock option grants, and restated certain previously filed financial statements included in this Form 10-K. The stock option grant review and related activities have resulted in substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, have diverted management’s attention from the day-to-day business, and could in the future harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the stock option grant review and restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. We have received a letter of informal inquiry from the SEC regarding the review of our stock option accounting. We intend to fully cooperate with the SEC’s inquiry. We are unable to predict whether a formal inquiry will be initiated or what consequences any further inquiry may have on us. We are unable to predict the likelihood of or potential outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock option practices. The resolution of these matters could be time-consuming and expensive, further distract management from other business concerns and harm our business. Furthermore, if we were subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business and financial condition. While we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our historical stock option grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk we may have to further restate prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. 24 We have received NASDAQ Staff Determination letters stating that, as a result of the delayed filing of this Form 10-K and our first quarter Form 10-Q, we were subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Stock Market. We have requested an extension to file and believe that, with the filing of this Form 10-K and our first quarter Form 10-Q, the non-compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) will be remedied, subject to NASDAQ’s completion of its compliance protocols. If the SEC disagrees with the manner in which we have accounted for the financial impact of past stock option grants, there could be further delays in filing subsequent SEC reports that could result in delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market. If we do not successfully maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or implement the remedial measures we have identified to address the control deficiencies related to our restatement, we could fail to prevent or detect another material misstatement of our financial statements or otherwise fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 