RISK FACTORS Our future revenue growth and income depends, among other things, on the success of our HIFU technology. We depend on the success of our High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (‘‘HIFU’’) technology for future revenue growth and net income. Our Extracorporeal Shockwave Lithotripsy (‘‘ESWL’’) line of products competes in a mature market that has experienced declining unit sales prices in recent years, although total revenues have remained stable owing to increased sales volumes. In particular, we are dependent on the successful development and commercialization of other product lines, such as medical devices based on HIFU, particularly the Ablatherm, to generate significant additional revenues and achieve and sustain profitability in the future. The Ablatherm is in its commercialization phase in the European Union. The Ablatherm is not approved for commercial distribution in the United States and none of the Company’s other HIFU products (excluding Ablatherm) have obtained approval for commercial distribution anywhere in the world. In December 2001, our request for an additional Investigational Device Exemption (‘‘IDE’’) from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (‘‘FDA’’) to conduct clinical trials in the United States for the Ablatherm as a primary therapy was rejected. To assist in the successful completion of clinical trials to obtain FDA approval for the Ablatherm, we partnered with HealthTronics Surgical Services, Inc. (“HealthTronics”) and signed a Distribution Agreement in February 2004 for assistance in the approval process for re-submission of an IDE to the FDA. Trials in the United States started in May 2006, with several centers fully approved and enrolling patients. In November 2006, HealthTronics informed us that they intended to discontinue Ablatherm FDA trials, at which time the trials were suspended. The parties are in the process of negotiating an agreement terminating the Distribution Agreement, which we expect will be finalized in the coming weeks, whereby HealthTronics will transition the study to EDAP, among other things. This will allow us to resume the trials soon while we look for the necessary resources to fund the study ourselves. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to find the necessary resources to fund the study in the coming weeks, and if we are unable to find funding ourselves we will suspend the trials until we have found a sponsor to provide funding. Also, we cannot guarantee the successful completion of clinical trials nor can we guarantee that the FDA will grant approval to market a device even if clinical trials are successfully completed. See ‘‘—Uncertainty Relating to Clinical Trials; Clinical Status of Certain Products Using HIFU Technology’’ and Item 4, ‘‘Information on the Company—High Intensity Focused Ultrasound Division—HIFU Division Clinical and Regulatory Status.’’ Our clinical trials for products using HIFU technology may not be successful. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our devices under development, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that the device is safe and effective for use in each indication. The results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials may not predict the results that will be obtained in large scale clinical trials, and there can be no assurance that our clinical trials will demonstrate that our products are safe, effective, and marketable. A number of companies have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. We, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time and regulating agencies such as the FDA may even refuse to grant exemptions to conduct clinical trials. We may not have the necessary resources to pursue the trials. See Item 4, ‘‘Information on the Company—High Intensity Focused Ultrasound Division—HIFU Division Clinical and Regulatory Status.’’ We rely on scientific, technical and clinical data supplied by academics that work with us to evaluate and develop our devices. We cannot assure you that there are no errors or omissions in such data that would adversely affect the development of our products. The process of applying for regulatory approval is unpredictable, often lengthy and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Our HIFU devices that have not received regulatory approval may not prove to be effective or safe in clinical trials or may not be approved by the appropriate regulatory 7 authorities. We do not anticipate receiving FDA approval for any HIFU device, including the Ablatherm, for several years, if at all. If our HIFU devices do not prove to be effective and safe in clinical trials to the satisfaction of the relevant regulatory authorities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. HIFU technology may not be accepted and adopted by the medical community. Our HIFU devices represent new therapies for the conditions that they are designed to treat. Notwithstanding any positive clinical results that our HIFU devices may have achieved or may achieve in the future in terms of safety and effectiveness, and any marketing approvals that we may have obtained or may obtain in the future, there can be no assurance that such products will gain acceptance in the medical community. Physician acceptance depends, among other things, on adequate reimbursement from healthcare payers, which has not been provided for our HIFU products in any country, except for partial reimbursements in Italy, Germany and the UK, and evidence of the cost effectiveness of a therapy as compared to existing therapies. Acceptance by patients depends in part on physician recommendations, as well as other factors, including the degree of invasiveness and the rate and severity of complications and other side effects associated with the therapy as compared to other therapies. Our cash flow is highly dependent on demand for our products. Our cash flow has historically been subject to significant fluctuations over the course of any given financial year due to cyclical demand for medical devices, and the resulting annual and quarterly fluctuations in trade and other receivables and inventories. This has in the past resulted in significant variations in working capital requirements and operating cash flows. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, moreover, our operating cash flow was negative due to the cash requirements of operating activities, which we financed using cash and cash equivalents on hand. In addition, our 2006 and 2005 operating cash flow was negative due to the cash requirements of investing activity to expand our mobile activity and to expand the leasing of our products as part of our revenue-per-procedure model. Since we anticipate relying principally on cash flow from operating activities to meet our liquidity requirements, a decrease in the demand for our products, or the inability of our customers to meet their financial obligations to us, would reduce the funds available to us. Our future cash flow may also be affected by the expected continued expansion of the leasing of our products, or the continued expansion of our mobile activity (which is invoiced on a revenue-per-procedure basis), since each of these activities generates smaller immediate revenues than device sales. In the future, our liquidity may be constrained and our cash flows may be uncertain, negative or significantly different from period to period. In 2006, we raised new equity funds via a $7.5 million Private Investment in Public Equity, aimed at financing our new marketing and sales campaign to promote and develop the Revenue-Per-Procedure business. Our future cash flow will be affected by the increased expenses in sales efforts as well as marketing and promotion tools, while there is no assurance that this will result in the increase in the demand for our products and services. We have a history of operating losses and it is uncertain when and if we will reach profitability. We have incurred operating losses in each fiscal year since 1998 and may never achieve profitability. We expect that our marketing, selling and research and development expenses will increase as we attempt to develop and commercialize HIFU devices. We may not, however, generate a sufficient level of revenue to offset these expenses and may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to respond to any unanticipated decline in revenue. In 2005 and 2004, we had positive operating income in both of our operating divisions (HIFU division and UDS division), reflecting efforts to restructure our operations in late 2003 and in control costs and operating losses in our holding company (holding expenses). In 2006, however, we had negative operating income in both of our operating divisions (HIFU division and UDS division), reflecting the clinical, marketing and sales efforts in the HIFU division to develop HIFU’s status as a standard of care, and the R&D and regulatory efforts in the UDS division to develop a new, high-range lithotripter. We cannot assure you that we will realize sufficient revenue to become profitable in the future. See Item 5, ‘‘Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.’’ 8 Competition in the markets in which we operate is intense and is expected to increase in the future. Competition in the markets in which we operate is intense and is expected to increase in the future. In each of our main businesses, we face competition both directly from other manufacturers of medical devices that apply the same technologies that we use, as well as indirectly from existing or emerging therapies for the treatment of urological disorders. We believe that because ESWL has long been the standard treatment for urinary tract calculus disease, competition in that market comes principally from current manufacturers of lithotripters, including Siemens, Storz and Dornier. In the markets that we target for our HIFU products, competition comes from new market entrants and alternative therapies, as well as from current manufacturers of medical devices. In the HIFU market our devices, in particular the Ablatherm, compete with all current treatments for localized tumors, including surgery, external beam radiotherapy, brachytherapy and cryotherapy. Other companies are working with HIFU for the minimally invasive treatment of tumors, including Focus Surgery, Inc. (‘‘Focus Surgery’’), which has developed a device called the Sonablate SB500 for the treatment of localized prostate cancer. Misonix, Inc., USHIFU and UKHIFU are also involved in the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of the Sonablate. Insightec, an Israeli company owned mainly by General Electric and Elbit Medical Imaging Ltd, has developed a device using HIFU technology to treat uterine fibroids. St. Jude Medical Inc. has developed a device using HIFU to treat atrial fibrillation. Haifu, a Chinese company developing HIFU products addressing various types of cancers, signed a development partnership agreement with Siemens Medical Solutions to offer a HIFU device coupled with IRM imaging system. Finally, Chinamed, a Chinese company, is also developing HIFU products for various types of cancer tumors, but the company is only marketing its HIFU products in China. See Item 4, ‘‘Information on the Company—High Intensity Focused Ultrasound Division— HIFU Competition’’ and Item 4, ‘‘Information on the Company—Urology Devices and Services Division.’’ Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than us and may have more experience in developing, manufacturing, marketing and supporting new medical devices. In addition, our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a leading position in technological innovation, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to develop new products or enhance our current ones to compete successfully with new or existing technologies. Rapid technological development by competitors may result in our products becoming obsolete before we recover a significant portion of the research, development and commercialization expenses incurred with respect to those products. We also face competition for our maintenance and service contracts. Larger hospitals often utilize their in-house maintenance departments instead of contracting with equipment manufacturers like us to maintain and repair their medical equipment. In addition, third-party medical equipment maintenance companies increasingly compete with equipment manufacturers by offering broad repair and maintenance service contracts to hospitals and clinics. This increased competition for medical devices and maintenance and service contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated industry and our future success depends on government regulatory approval of our products, which we may not receive or which may be delayed for a significant period of time. Government regulation significantly impacts the development and marketing of our products, particularly in the United States. We are regulated in each of our major markets with respect to preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, distribution, sale, marketing, advertising and promotion of our products. To market and sell products still in the clinical trial stage, we are required to obtain approval or clearance from the relevant regulatory agencies, including the FDA in the United States. In particular, we are currently going through the FDA approval process with our Ablatherm device. Moreover, regulatory approval to market a product, if granted, may include limitations on the indicated uses for which it may be marketed. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements can result in fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. Regulatory policy may change and additional government regulations may be established that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products. Any delay, failure to receive regulatory approval or the loss of previously received approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 9 condition and results of operations. For more information on the regulation of our business, see Item 4, ‘‘Information on the Company—Government Regulation.’’ It is also possible that additional statutes or regulations that affect our business will be adopted and could impose substantial additional costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our products depends on whether procedures performed by those products are eligible for reimbursement which depends on the decisions of national health authorities and third-party payers. Our success depends, among other things, on the extent to which reimbursement can be obtained from healthcare payers in the United States and elsewhere for procedures performed with our products. In the United States, we are dependent upon favorable decisions by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (‘‘CMS’’), formerly the Health Care Financing Administration (‘‘HCFA’’), for Medicare reimbursement, individual managed care organizations, private insurers and other payers. These decisions may be revised from time to time, which could affect reimbursement for procedures performed using our devices. Outside the United States, and in particular in the European Union and Japan, third-party reimbursement is generally conditioned upon decisions by national health authorities. In the European Union, there is no single procedure for obtaining reimbursement and, consequently, we must seek regulatory approval in each Member State. If we fail to establish reimbursement from healthcare payers or government and private healthcare payers’ policies change, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lithotripsy procedures are reimbursed in the European Union, in Japan and in the United States. However, a decision to modify reimbursement policies for these procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Procedures performed with our Ablatherm device are not reimbursed in the United States or in any of the European Union countries with the exception of Italy, Germany and the UK, where it is partially reimbursed. We cannot assure you that additional reimbursement approvals will be obtained. If reimbursement for our products is unavailable, limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. Our manufacturing operations are highly regulated and failure to comply with those regulations would harm our business. Our manufacturing operations must comply with regulations established by regulatory agencies in the United States, the European Union and other countries, and in particular with the good manufacturing practices (‘‘GMP’’) mandated by the FDA and European Union standards for quality assurance and manufacturing process control. Failure to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a single site to manufacture our products, and any interruption of operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most of our manufacturing currently takes place in a single facility located in Vaulx-en-Velin, on the outskirts of Lyon, France. A significant interruption in the operations of our sole facility for any reason, such as fire, flood or other natural disaster or a failure to obtain or maintain required regulatory approvals, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For certain components or services we depend on single suppliers that for events beyond our control may fail to deliver sufficient supplies to us, which would interrupt our production processes. We purchase the majority of the components used in our products from a number of suppliers, but rely on a single supplier for several components. In addition, we rely on single suppliers for certain services. If the supply of certain components or services were interrupted for any reason, our manufacturing and marketing of the affected products would be delayed. These delays could be extensive, especially in situations where a component substitution would require regulatory approval. We expect to continue to depend upon our suppliers for the foreseeable future. Failure to obtain adequate supplies of components or services in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Intellectual property rights are essential to protect our medical devices, and any dispute with respect to these rights could be costly and have an uncertain outcome. Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to establish and protect the related intellectual property rights, without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims covered in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Our products, including our HIFU devices, may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings are both costly and time consuming and may result in a significant diversion of effort and resources by our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceeding to which we become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties; require us to seek licenses from third parties and pay ongoing royalties; require us to redesign certain products; or subject us to injunctions preventing the manufacture, use or sale of the affected products. In addition to being costly, drawn-out litigation to defend or prosecute intellectual property rights could cause our customers or potential customers to defer or limit their purchase or use of our products until the litigation is resolved. See Item 4, ‘‘Information on the Company—High Intensity Focused Ultrasound Division—HIFU Division Patents and Intellectual Property’’ and Item 4, ‘‘Information on the Company—Urology Devices and Services Division—UDS Division Patents and Intellectual Property.’’ We own patents covering several of our technologies and have additional patent applications pending in the United States, the European Union, Japan and elsewhere. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive and there can be no assurance that our patent applications will result in patents being issued. We also cannot assure you that our current or future patents are or will be sufficient to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. Our patents or patent applications could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. The failure to maintain or obtain necessary patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights from third parties on acceptable terms or the invalidation or cancellation of material patents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Our competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may apply for and obtain patents that will interfere with our ability to make, use or sell certain products either in the United States or in foreign markets, including our HIFU devices. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which we seek to protect through non-disclosure agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. It is possible, however, that those non-disclosure agreements will be breached, that we will not have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that our trade secrets will become known to, or independently developed by, competitors. Litigation may be necessary to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. We face a significant risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury or death. If the use of any of our products results in personal injury or death, we may face significant product liability claims. To date, we are a party to two product liability actions in the United States by patients claiming to have been injured in the course of a Prostatron procedure, for which we have retained liability following the sale of our Prostatron business in October 2000. See Item 5, ‘‘Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Policies—Litigation’’ and Item 8, ‘‘Financial Information—Legal Proceedings’’ for more information about these actions. These product liability claims, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain separate product liability insurance policies for the United States and Canada and for the other markets in which we sell our products. Product liability insurance is expensive and there can be 11 no assurance that it will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, our insurance may not cover certain product liability claims or our liability for any claims may exceed our coverage limits. Also, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign the product. A product liability claim or series of claims brought against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage, or any claim or product recall that results in significant cost to or adverse publicity against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We sell our products in many parts of the world and, as a result, our business is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk because the mix of currencies in which our costs are denominated is different from the mix of currencies in which we earn our revenue. In 2006, approximately 79% of our selling, marketing and general and administrative expenses and approximately 91% of our research and development expenses were denominated in euro, while approximately 32% of our sales were denominated in currencies other than euro (primarily the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen). Our operating profitability could be materially adversely affected by large fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the euro and other currencies. For instance, a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar or the Japanese yen against the euro would have a negative effect on our revenues, which may not be offset by an equal reduction in operating expenses and would therefore negatively impact operating profitability. From time to time we enter into foreign exchange forward sale contracts to hedge against fluctuations in the exchange rates of the principal foreign currencies in which our receivables are denominated (in particular, the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen), but there can be no assurance that such hedging activities will limit the effect of movements in exchange rates on our results of operations. As of December 31, 2006, we had no outstanding hedging instrument. In addition, since any dividends that we may declare will be denominated in euro, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of any dividends received by holders of ADSs. Our results of operations have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter depending upon numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the timing and results of clinical trials, changes in healthcare reimbursement policies, cyclicality of demand for our products, changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors, new product announcements by us or our competitors, customer order deferrals in anticipation of new or enhanced products offered by us or our competitors, product quality problems and exchange rate fluctuations. Furthermore, because our main products have relatively high unit prices, the amount and timing of individual orders can have a substantial effect on our results of operations in any given quarter. 