Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company could experience an increase in loan losses, which would reduce the Company’s earnings. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. A downturn in the economy or the real estate market in our market areas or a rapid change in interest rates could have a negative effect on the collateral values and borrower’s ability to repay. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. To the extent charge offs exceed our financial models, increased amounts charged to the provision for loan losses would reduce net income. 22 Rapidly changing interest rate environments could reduce our net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income. Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of our net income. Interest rates are the key drivers of the Company’s net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in the maturities of the Company’s assets and liabilities. Furthermore, substantially higher rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” Liquidity needs could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company relies on dividends from the Bank as a primary source of funds. The primary source of funds of the Bank are customer deposits and cash flows from investment instruments and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source, they are subject to the ability of the borrowers to repay their loans. The ability of the borrowers to repay their loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting the business environment, natural disasters and various other factors. Cash flows from the investment portfolio may be affected by changes in interest rates, resulting in excessive levels of cash flow during periods of declining interest rates and lower levels of cash flow during periods of rising interest rates. Deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including both the national market and local competitive interest rate environment, local and national economic conditions, natural disasters and other various events. Accordingly, the Company may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include the FHLB advances and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. The Company may also pledge investments as collateral to borrow money from third parties. In certain cases, the Company may sell investment instruments for sizable losses to meet liquidity needs, hurting net income. While the Company believes that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity needs. The financial industry is very competitive. We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services throughout our market area. Our competitors include other community banks, regional and super-regional banking institutions, national banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies, brokerage companies, and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than HopFed Bancorp, Inc. Inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our revenues and net income. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting, hiring, and training expenses, resulting in lower net income. The Company is subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict its activities. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Company’s regulatory compliance is costly and certain types of activities, including the payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged and interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices are subject to regulatory approval and may be limited by regulation. The Company is also subject to capitalization guidelines established by its regulators, which require it and the Bank to maintain adequate capital to support its and the Bank’s growth. 23 The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and the Company cannot predict the effects of these changes on its business and profitability. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ National Market that are now and will be applicable to the Company, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, the Company has experienced, and may continue to experience, greater compliance cost. Even though the Company’s common stock is currently traded on The NASDAQ National Market, the trading volume in the Company’s common stock has been low and the sale of substantial amounts of its common stock in the public market could depress the price of the Company’s common stock. The trading volume of the Company’s common stock on The NASDAQ National Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on The NASDAQ National Market or other stock exchanges. Thinly traded stocks, such as the Company’s, can be more volatile than stocks trading in an active public market. Because of this, the Company stockholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of its common stock in the market, or availability of shares of its common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market prices of the Company’s common stock. The Company, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of its common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sale in the market, would not cause the price of its common stock to decline or impair the Company’s ability to raise capital through sales of its common stock. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to its performance. General market prices declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 24 