ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We emerged from Chapter 11 reorganization in 2004 and have a history of losses. We sought protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in May 2004 and emerged on December 21, 2004. We reported a net loss of $138.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and a net loss of $3.7 million for the period December 21, 2004 through December 31, 2005 (Successor). We reported net income of $1.0 billion for the period January 1, 2004 through December 20, 2004 due to the forgiveness of our unsecured obligations in bankruptcy (Predecessor), and losses of $499.0 million during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Our equity ownership, board of directors, and senior management were replaced in connection with our reorganization. While we have concentrated on refining our business strategy, we cannot predict if or when we will attain profitability or achieve significant improvement in our operating performance. We continue to be highly leveraged and to have substantial indebtedness relative to our cash flow. Our Chapter 11 reorganization reduced significantly the principal amount of outstanding indebtedness by converting approximately $1.2 billion in aggregate principal of our senior notes and accrued interest into new common stock. In addition, our indebtedness under our bank credit agreement was repaid in full in cash and indebtedness under our Evergreen Credit Agreement was reinstated and modified. Upon confirmation and effectiveness of the Plan, the total outstanding debt obligations for Reorganized RCN were reduced to approximately $494.0 million. Despite these reductions, we remain highly leveraged. This amount of leverage may have important consequences for us, including: • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • making it difficult for us to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. 26 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee that we will be able to reduce our level of indebtedness or generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our capital expenditure requirements. If we cannot do so, we would need to seek additional financing, reduce our capital expenditures or take other steps, such as disposing of assets. We cannot assure you that financing would be available on acceptable terms or that asset sales could be accomplished on acceptable terms. In connection with operating our business and building our network, we have incurred operating and net losses and we expect to continue to experience losses for the foreseeable future. We had experienced negative cash flow in the past and may not be able to achieve or sustain operating profitability in the future. A variety of factors will affect our efforts to achieve positive cash flow in the future, including: • the intensity of competition and our ability to successfully market our products and services; • the rate at which we add new customers and lose existing customers; • the time and expense required to acquire new customers and to enhance our broadband network as planned; and • our ability to lower the cost of serving customers and the expense we will incur to achieve these cost savings. These factors may hinder our business prospects and have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows. The covenants in our debt instruments restrict our financial and operational flexibility. The credit agreements for our first- and third-lien debt facilities and the indenture for our Convertible Notes impose operating and financial restrictions that affect our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • issue preferred stock; • create liens on our assets; • make particular types of investments or other restricted payments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • acquire assets or make certain capital expenditures; • utilize proceeds from asset sales for purposes other than debt reduction; • merge or consolidate or sell substantially all of our assets; and • pay dividends. In addition, our first- and third-lien facilities require us to achieve specific goals such as minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), interest coverage, adjusted leverage and unrestricted cash. These requirements may affect our ability to finance future operations or to engage in other beneficial business activities. These restrictions may also limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in market conditions and cause us to be more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. If we violate any of these lien restrictions, we could be in default under these agreements and be required to repay our debt immediately rather than at scheduled maturity. The security for our Convertible Notes and first- and third-lien facilities consists of liens on substantially all of our domestic assets. If we default under these financing agreements, the creditors could seek to accelerate our repayment obligations, and could seek to foreclose on our assets. If this were to happen, it would materially and adversely affect our company and our business. In addition, our debt facilities contain cross-default provisions which could result in the acceleration of our repayment obligations under all of our debt facilities in the event that we default on other indebtedness or become the subject of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. 27 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our stock and our ability to raise capital. A significant portion of our outstanding common stock is held by institutions, who own large blocks of our shares. Due to the relatively low trading volume in our stock, a decision by any of these investors to sell all or a portion of their holdings could cause our stock price to drop significantly, or cause significant volatility in our stock price. In addition, we have a significant number of shares that we are obligated to issue or that will be come available for resale in the future: • in 2005 we issued options to purchase 3,752,835 shares of our common stock and 730,086 shares of our restricted stock under our Stock Plan, which vest ratably over three years (some of which are subject to performance criteria); • in 2005 we distributed warrants to purchase 188,032 shares of our common stock at a per share price of $34.16 to holders of Old RCN stock as part of our Chapter 11 reorganization; • we have issued notes that are currently convertible into 4,968,204 shares of our common stock at a per share price of $25.16; and • we have 628,446 shares of our common stock remaining in a reserve to settle disputed claims against us that were outstanding as of the date of our emergence from Chapter 11, which will be distributed either to claimants in settlement of any remaining outstanding claims, or to unsecured creditors and former bond holders on a pro rata basis once all outstanding claims are resolved and the period to reconsider the Bankruptcy Court’s ruling on RCN’s objections to the claims of all creditors expires. Our markets are highly competitive. In each of our markets we face significant competition from larger incumbent cable and telephone companies and DBS companies, high-speed data service providers and other telecommunication providers. These incumbents have numerous advantages, which result from their historically monopolistic control of their respective markets. These competitive advantages include: • significant economies of scale; • greater name recognition; • greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources; • well-established customer and vendor relationships; • significant control over limited conduit and pole space (in the case of incumbent cable and telephone companies); and • ownership of sought after content. In addition, a continuing trend toward business combinations and alliances in the telecommunications industry may also create significant new competitors. We cannot predict the extent to which competition from such future competitors will impact our operations. Increased competition could lead to price reductions, fewer bundled sales, under-utilization of resources, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. Business combinations and joint ventures may also impact our ability to access new technology or other resources. 28 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting our industry, including regulatory changes that may affect our competitors differently from us, new technologies and services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends and discount pricing strategies by competitors. New regulations or changes in existing regulations could adversely affect our business. Telecommunications and cable television operators are subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state and local levels. This regulation affects the manner in which we must operate our business, and also has a direct and indirect impact on our operating costs. These regulations are subject to change from time to time and new regulations are adopted periodically by both federal and other regulatory agencies. In addition, many of the existing regulations and requirements are currently the subject of judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative proposals that could change the operations of communications companies. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings or how those outcomes may impact our business. Regulations, or interpretations of those regulations, that enhance the ability of our competitors could adversely affect our competitive position. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on the nature and timing of these legislative changes, regulations and interpretations and whether they are favorable to us or our competitors. See “Business-Regulation” for more information. Changes in regulations or additional regulations may make it more difficult or costly to obtain or retain necessary governmental authorizations for our business. We are required to have various governmental authorizations to operate our business and offer our services. New regulations, or changes to existing regulations, could negatively impact our ability to obtain and retain these authorizations by imposing additional requirements or qualifications, expanding restrictions or increasing the cost of compliance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all of the authorizations needed to construct broadband network facilities or to retain the authorizations we have already acquired. In addition, we cannot predict whether any additional regulations will be adopted that will increase our costs or reduce our revenues. We may encounter difficulties expanding our existing markets and delays in constructing our network. To expand our existing markets, we may have to obtain pole attachment agreements, construction permits, telephone numbers, franchises and other regulatory approvals. Delays in entering into pole attachment agreements, receiving the necessary construction permits and conducting the construction itself have adversely affected our schedule in the past and could do so again in the future. We project the capital expenditures that will be required to upgrade or expand our network based in part on the amount of time necessary to complete the construction or upgrade of the network and the difficulty of this construction. If construction lasts longer than anticipated or is more difficult than anticipated, Our capital expenditures could be significantly higher, which could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. Programming costs have risen in past years and are expected to continue to rise, which may adversely affect our financial results. The cost of acquiring programming is a significant portion of the operating costs for our cable television business. These costs have increased each year and we expect them to continue to increase, especially the costs associated with sports programming. Many of our programming contracts cover multiple years and provide for future increases in the fees we must pay. Historically, we have absorbed increased programming costs in large part through increased prices to our customers. However, we cannot assure you that competitive and other marketplace factors will permit us to continue to pass through these costs. In order to minimize the negative impact that increased programming costs may have on our margins, we may pursue a variety of strategies, including moving some programming to premium tiers or migrating some programming from our analog service to our digital service. Despite our efforts to manage programming expenses, we cannot assure you that the rising cost of programming will not adversely affect our cash flow and operating margins. 29 Table of Contents We are not large enough to negotiate programming contracts as favorable as some of our larger competitors. Programming costs are generally directly related to the number of subscribers to which the programming is provided, with discounts available to large MSOs and DBS providers based on their high subscriber levels. As a result, larger cable and DBS systems generally pay lower per subscriber programming costs. We have attempted to obtain volume discounts through our membership in the NCTC. Despite these efforts, we believe that our per subscriber programming costs are significantly higher than large MSOs and DBS providers with which we compete in some of our markets. This may put us at a competitive disadvantage in terms of maintaining our operating results while remaining competitive with prices offered by these providers. In addition, as programming agreements come up for renewal, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these agreements on comparable or favorable terms. To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with a programmer on terms that we believe are reasonable, we may be forced to remove programming from our line-up, which could result in a loss of customers. We operate OVS systems in some of the markets that we service under FCC channel capacity rules that are not applicable to franchised cable systems. In portions of our New York, Boston, San Francisco and Washington, DC markets, we operate our video services under open video system (“OVS”) certificates. The FCC’s rules exempt OVS operators from many of the regulations and requirements applicable to cable operators, including the right of local governments to impose build-out obligations as a condition to constructing the OVS network. The FCC’s OVS rules, however, generally require OVS operators to make channel capacity on their facilities available to unaffiliated VPPs on a non-discriminatory basis. Following certification by the FCC, OVS operators must complete an open enrollment period that permits VPPs to seek capacity on the systems. To date, no VPP has sought capacity on any of our OVS systems. Under the FCC’s rules, a competing in-region cable operator is not entitled to become a VPP on an OVS except in limited circumstances. Despite this, incumbent cable operators in the Boston, New York and Washington, D.C. area markets have in the past sought proprietary information about our OVS system to analyze the possibility of becoming a VPP on our network. We have rejected all of these requests based on our belief that the cable companies are ineligible under the FCC’s rules. The requesting companies have challenged our rejections at the FCC. One of those challenges was subsequently withdrawn by one of the two cable operators, and the FCC has never ruled upon the other complaint which was brought by Time Warner seeking access to proprietary OVS system information for our Boston and New York markets. In 2002, we obtained new OVS certifications from the FCC for Boston and San Francisco, and since that time we have entered into OVS agreements with those cities and terminated our cable franchises. We subsequently completed a new open enrollment period for both cities and did not receive any requests for carriage by any VPP or from any of the incumbent cable operators in those markets. We believe that we are operating in conformity with all applicable provisions of the law and will continue to defend our OVS systems against what we believe are anti-competitive requests for data or carriage by competing in-region cable operators. We believe that Time Warner’s request for data regarding our Boston system in connection with its initial OVS open enrollment period has been rendered moot by the subsequent open enrollment period, in which Time Warner did not renew its claim. However, we cannot assure you that the FCC will resolve the Time Warner request for OVS data in our favor, or that other incumbents will not file similar requests in other markets during any subsequent open enrollment periods. If the FCC were to grant such a request, and require us to share such system data with local competitors, such an action could have a significant adverse effect on our company and our business. The FCC has the authority to enforce its OVS regulations by imposing substantial fines, issuing cease and desist orders and/or imposing other administrative sanctions, such as revoking FCC certifications. Loss of interconnection arrangements could impair our telephone service. We rely on other companies to connect our local telephone customers with customers of other local telephone providers. We presently have the right to interconnect with the networks of Verizon, SBC and other ILECs. If any of these interconnection agreements are not renewed, we will have to negotiate new interconnection agreements with the respective carriers. A renegotiated agreement could be on terms less favorable than current terms. It is generally expected that the 1996 Act will continue to undergo considerable interpretation and implementation, which could have a negative impact on our interconnection agreements with Verizon and SBC. It is also possible that further amendments to the Communications Act may be enacted which could have a negative impact on our interconnection agreements with Verizon and SBC. The contractual arrangements for interconnection and access to UNEs with incumbent carriers generally contain provisions for incorporating changes in governing law. As a resulting, future FCC, PUC and/or court decisions may negatively impact the rates, terms and conditions of the interconnection services we have obtained and may seek to obtain under these agreements, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on the nature and timing of any such legislative changes, regulations and interpretations and whether they are favorable to us or to our competitors. See “Business-Regulation,” page 28. 30 Table of Contents The rates we pay for pole attachments and rights-of-way may increase significantly. A portion of our network is attached to local utility companies’ poles and located in other rights-of-way of third parties. The rates we must pay utility companies for space on their utility poles or other public and private rights-of-way are frequently disputed. If the rates we pay for pole attachments or other public and private rights-of-way increase significantly or unexpectedly, it would cause our network to be more expensive to operate. It could also place us at a disadvantage to competitors who do not require, or who are less dependent upon, pole attachments, such as satellite providers and wireless voice service providers. See “Business-Regulation—Regulation of Video Services—Pole and Conduit Attachments” for more information. Our current licenses are generally non-exclusive and the granting authorities are not required to renew them. Our cable television systems are operated primarily under non-exclusive license agreements with local government licensing authorities, in some cases with the approval of state cable television authorities. Consequently, our business is dependent on our ability to obtain and renew these licenses. Although we have never lost a license as a result of a failure to obtain a renewal, our licenses are subject to non-renewal or termination under some circumstances. If we fail to obtain renewals of our licenses, especially in the major metropolitan areas where we have a large number of customers, this could significantly and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In some cases, our licenses have not been renewed at expiration and we operate under temporary authority from the LFA while negotiating renewal terms with them. Currently seven of our cable franchises in the eastern Pennsylvania market are beyond their stated expiration dates but are continuing under their existing terms and conditions. We expect to renew substantially all of these franchises, but we cannot assure you that we will obtain these renewals on favorable terms. There are risks of network failure and disruption. Our network architecture generally limits any failure or disruption to the market in which the failure occurs. Many of our agreements with commercial customers, franchise agreements to provide cable television and certificates to provide phone service contain performance provisions that include rebates or credits for service interruptions. While we consider the likelihood low, prolonged or repeated service interruptions could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, and therefore adversely affect our operating results. ITEM 