Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following: Our ability to comply with the financial covenants in our credit agreements depends primarily on our ability to generate substantial operating cash flow. Our ability to comply with the financial covenants under the agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities will depend primarily on our success in generating substantial operating cash flow. Under our credit agreements, we are subject to a maximum capital expenditures covenant, an interest coverage ratio covenant, a total leverage ratio covenant and a senior debt ratio covenant. Industry conditions and financial, business and other factors, including those we identify as risk factors in this report, will affect our ability to generate the cash flows we need to meet those financial tests and ratios. Our failure to meet the tests or ratios could result in a default and acceleration of repayment of the indebtedness under our credit facilities. If the maturity of our indebtedness were accelerated, we would not have sufficient funds to pay such indebtedness. In such event, our 21 Table of Contents lenders would be entitled to proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness, which includes substantially our entire assets, to the extent permitted by our credit agreements and applicable law. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and ability to compete. As of December 31, 2007, we had $302.8 million of total long-term indebtedness, net of unamortized discount, including the current portion of such indebtedness. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it may: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a significant portion of our borrowings will continue to be at variable rates of interest; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds to alleviate liquidity constraints, as a result of financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies that have less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to refinance our principal secured indebtedness. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities impose operating and financial restrictions that limit our discretion on some business matters, which could make it more difficult for us to expand, finance our operations and engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. These restrictions limit our ability and that of our subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness and additional liens on our assets; • engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • pay dividends or make other distributions; • voluntarily prepay other indebtedness; • enter into transactions with affiliated persons; • make investments; and • change the nature of our business. We may incur indebtedness in addition to the term loan senior secured indebtedness we have incurred and the $10 million of revolving credit indebtedness we may incur from time to time, under our credit facilities. Any additional indebtedness we may incur in the future may subject us to similar or even more restrictive conditions. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability in the future to generate cash flows from operations and to raise additional funds, including through the offering of equity or debt securities. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to raise additional funds in amounts necessary for us to repay our indebtedness when such indebtedness becomes due and to meet our other cash needs. 22 Table of Contents The FCC may restrict our ability to provide local services and may implement orders that would increase the costs we incur to provide these services. In February 2005, the FCC released an order limiting the number and types of unbundled network elements that incumbent local exchange carriers must make available to us and other competitive communications companies. The FCC’s order also eliminated the requirement that incumbent carriers make available to us and other competitive carriers local switching services for residential and small business customers. If these incumbent carriers do not continue to cooperate by permitting us to purchase these services from them under commercial arrangements, our business could be adversely affected. If prices of the network elements that we use to provide our services increase or if those network elements are eliminated as a result of the implementation of the February 2005 order or any future consideration of this issue by the FCC, our cost of providing local exchange service could increase. This can have a significant adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. Because of the February 2005 order, incumbent local telephone companies no longer are required to provide local switching services, which means that we can no longer rely on the Unbundled Network Element-Platform, or “UNE-P,” to provide local services to customers. The FCC’s order also limits the availability to us of some incumbent carrier dedicated transport services between central offices and broadband local loops. Although the FCC’s order permits carriers to enter into commercial agreements for network elements and provided for a transition period to the new rules, AT&T and the other incumbent carriers in our markets have not made, and are not expected to make, network elements available to us at the same rates they have in the past. Although AT&T made certain commitments relative to the availability and pricing of UNEs in connection with its merger with BellSouth, the financial impact of those commitments on us and other competitive carriers is uncertain. The FCC also has proposed new rules that would change the existing cost-based method of pricing the services that we obtain from the incumbent local telephone companies. If adopted, the proposed rules would enable the incumbent local telephone companies to initiate proceedings before state public utility commissions to seek increased rates for unbundled network elements. If some elements in particular markets or on particular transport routes in those markets cease to be available to us at the existing cost-based rates, we could experience an increase in our cost of providing local exchange services, which would negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. We are subject to a significant number of legal proceedings that could result in our payment of substantial monetary damages and could adversely affect our ability to provide services. To maintain our fiber optic network, we have obtained easements, rights-of-way, franchises and licenses from various third parties, including actual and potential competitors, local governments, private landowners and others. We may not be able to continue to use or have access to all of our existing easements, rights-of-way, franchises and licenses or to renew or replace them after they expire. Third parties have initiated legal proceedings in a number of states challenging some of our significant licenses to use the rights-of-way of others, including our licenses to use the rights-of-way of Mississippi Power Company and Gulf Power Company. Proceedings pending as of December 31, 2007 affected approximately 300 route miles of our network and, if resolved in a manner adverse to us, could affect additional portions of our network. We cannot predict whether additional portions of our network will become subject to similar legal proceedings in the future. If some of these or similar future challenges are successful, or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in maintaining or renewing our rights to use our network easements, rights-of-way, franchises and licenses, we may be compelled to abandon significant portions of our network, which would require us to incur additional expenditures, and to pay substantial monetary damages. Our integrated communications services business is subject to significant competitive pressures that could restrict our ability to achieve or sustain operating profitability. Our industry is highly competitive, and the level of competition, particularly with respect to pricing, is increasing. As a result of competitive pressures, we may not be able to achieve or sustain operating profitability, 23 Table of Contents adequate market share or significant revenue growth in any of our markets. The prices we charge for our retail local, long distance and data services have declined significantly in recent years. AT&T, which acquired BellSouth, and the other incumbent local telephone companies in our markets offer substantially the same services we offer, in some cases at lower prices. These companies have substantially greater infrastructures, financial, personnel, technical, marketing and other resources, larger numbers of established customers and more prominent name recognition than we do. These advantages may increase as a result of recent and future consolidations in our industry. We expect to continue to face significant pricing and product competition from AT&T and the other large, established telephone companies that currently are the dominant providers of telecommunications services in our markets. We also will continue to face significant competitive product and pricing pressures from other types of communications businesses, including cable companies providing broadband Internet access and other integrated services providers, and from other companies like us that attempt to compete in the local services market. We may be required to reduce further some or all of the prices we charge for our retail local, long distance and data services for the following reasons, which could adversely affect our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations: • AT&T, our principal competitor in many of the markets we serve, is authorized to offer the same bundle of local, long distance and data services that we offer; • the acquisitions of BellSouth by AT&T and of MCI by Verizon Communications have increased substantially the market power of these incumbent carriers, particularly of our principal competitor and our principal supplier of last-mile connectivity to our customers, in many of the markets we serve and in the market for business customers in which we compete, and these mergers may accelerate other pending or future consolidations among our competitors; • cable companies and providers of alternative forms of communication that rely on Voice over Internet Protocol or similar applications are increasingly attracting customers and are expected to expand their target customer base from primarily residential customers to the small and medium-sized businesses we serve; and • recent regulatory decisions have decreased regulatory oversight of incumbent local telephone companies, which may increase the benefits that these companies could experience from their long-standing customer relationships and their ability to subsidize local services with revenue from unrelated businesses. The foregoing competitive pressures have contributed to a significant increase in our customer attrition over the past two years. We expect that these pressures will continue to affect adversely our ability to maintain existing customers and win new customers. Our wholesale services, including our broadband transport services, continue to be adversely affected by pricing pressure, network overcapacity, service cancellations and other factors. We have continued to experience adverse trends related to our wholesale service offerings, including our broadband transport services and local interconnection business, which have resulted primarily from a reduction in rates charged to our customers due to overcapacity in the broadband services business and from service cancellations by some customers. Pending or contemplated consolidations in our industry also may continue to affect adversely our wholesale services business by improving the resources of the consolidating companies and reducing their demand for our services as those companies upgrade their own networks and consolidate their voice and data traffic on those networks. We expect that these factors will result in continued declines in revenues and cash flows from our wholesale service offerings. Such declines will have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results, because of the higher gross margins associated with our wholesale services. 24 Table of Contents Our operating performance will suffer if we are not offered competitive rates for the access services we need to provide our long distance services. We depend on other communications companies to originate and terminate a significant portion of the long distance traffic initiated by our customers. Our operating performance will suffer if we are not offered these access services at rates that are substantially equivalent to the costs of, and rates charged to, our competitors and that permit profitable pricing of our long distance services. The charges for access services historically have made up a significant percentage of our overall cost of providing long distance service. Some of our Internet-based competitors generally have been exempt from these and other regulatory charges, which could give them a significant cost advantage over us in this area. The FCC currently is considering what charges, if any, should be assessed on long distance and other interconnected voice services provided over the Internet. Our inability to maintain our network infrastructure, portions of which we do not own, could adversely affect our operating results. We have effectively extended our network with minimal capital expenditures by entering into marketing and management agreements with public utility companies to sell long-haul private line services on the fiber optic networks owned by these companies. Under these agreements, we generally earn a commission based upon a percentage of the gross revenues generated by the sale of capacity on the utility’s networks. Any cancellation or non-renewal of any of these agreements, any adverse legal ruling with respect to our rights under any of these agreements, or any future failure by us to acquire and maintain similar network agreements in these or other markets as necessary could materially adversely affect our operations. In addition, some of our agreements with the public utility companies are nonexclusive, and our business would suffer from any reduction in the amount of capacity they make available to us. Our ability to provide service also could be materially adversely affected by a cable cut, switch failure or other equipment failure along our fiber optic network or along any other fiber optic network on which we lease transmission capacity. A significant portion of our fiber optic network is not protected by electronic redundancy or geographical diverse routing. Lack of these safeguards could result in our inability to reroute traffic to another fiber in the same fiber sheath in the event of a partial fiber cut or electronics failure or to an entirely different fiber optic route, assuming capacity is available, if there occurs a total cable cut or if we fail to maintain our rights-of-way on some routes. Our ability to use network infrastructure and continue to provide services also may be affected by regulatory or legislative developments in connection with Internet Neutrality, which refers to the non-discriminatory treatment of data that traverse broadband networks. We cannot predict the outcome of any such developments. If we are unable to interconnect with AT&T and other incumbent carriers on acceptable terms, our ability to offer competitively priced local telephone services will be adversely affected. To provide local telephone services, we must interconnect with and resell the services of the incumbent carriers to supplement our own network facilities. This relationship is governed by interconnection agreements between the incumbent carrier and one of our operating companies. As the original term of each of our interconnection agreements expires, it typically will be renewed on a month-to-month basis until it is replaced by a successor agreement. We have completed successor agreements with AT&T (which succeeded BellSouth) in two states and are seeking new agreements in other states. Although the regulatory conditions to the merger of AT&T and BellSouth provide additional options for entering into new agreements, we may not be able to enter into new interconnection agreements with AT&T or other carriers on favorable terms or in a timely manner. Further, federal regulators have adopted substantial modifications to the requirements that obligate AT&T and other former monopoly local telephone companies to provide to us at cost-based rates the elements of their telephone networks that enable us to offer many of our services at competitive rates. If we are unable to enter into or maintain favorable interconnection agreements in our markets, our ability to provide local services on a competitive and profitable basis may be materially adversely affected. Any successful effort by the incumbent carriers to deny or substantially limit our access to their network elements or wholesale services also would harm our ability to provide local telephone services. 25 Table of Contents We may not be able to retain the few large customers on which we depend for a significant percentage of our revenues. We may not be able to retain our large customers, or we may be required to lower our prices significantly to retain them. Our ability to retain these customers may be adversely affected by pending or contemplated consolidations in our industry, adverse changes in our financial condition, increased competition, customer service issues and other events that may occur. The table below sets forth the approximate percentages of our total consolidated revenues generated in 2005, 2006 and 2007 by our five largest integrated communications services customers and our three largest wholesale services customers: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Five largest integrated communications services customers 4.6 % 4.3 % 4.2 % Three largest wholesale services customers 6.2 % 6.9 % 6.9 % If we were to lose any of these customers or were compelled to lower our prices to retain these customers, our operating revenues and business could be adversely affected. The local and long distance industries are subject to significant government regulation, which may change in a manner that is harmful to our business. We are required to comply with telecommunications regulations implemented by federal, state and local governments. We are required to obtain authorizations from the FCC and state public utility commissions to offer some of our communications services, to file tariffs for many of our services and to comply with local license, franchise or permit requirements relating to installation and operation of our network. Many of these regulations continue to change. Any of the following events related to the manner in which our business is regulated could limit the types of services we provide or the terms on which we provide these services: • our failure to maintain proper federal and state tariffs; • our failure to maintain proper state certifications; • our failure to comply with federal, state or local laws and regulations; • our failure to obtain and maintain required licenses, franchises and permits; • the imposition of burdensome license, franchise or permit requirements for us to operate in public rights-of-way; and • the occurrence of burdensome or adverse regulatory requirements or developments. We may not benefit from our acquisition strategy. As part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate opportunities to enhance the value of our company by pursuing acquisitions of other businesses. Before the completion of our recapitalization transactions in July 2007, such efforts were hindered in part due to our high levels of outstanding debt and our complicated capital structure. Following the completion of the recapitalization transactions, however, we believe that we are better positioned to pursue, and therefore we intend to pursue, such strategic acquisition opportunities as they arise. We cannot provide any assurance, however, with respect to the timing, likelihood, size or financial effect of any potential transaction involving our company, as we may not be successful in identifying and consummating any acquisition or in integrating any newly acquired business into our operations. The evaluation of business acquisition opportunities and the integration of any acquired businesses pose a number of significant risks, including the following: • acquisitions may place significant strain on our management, financial and other resources by requiring us to expend a substantial amount of time and resources in the pursuit of acquisitions that we may not 26 Table of Contents complete, or to devote significant attention to the various integration efforts of any newly acquired businesses, all of which will require the allocation of limited management resources; • acquisitions may not have a positive impact on our cash flows or financial performance, even if acquired companies eventually contribute to an increase in our profitability, because the acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results in the short term as a result of transaction-related expenses we will have to pay or the higher operating and administrative expenses we may incur in the periods immediately following an acquisition as we seek to integrate the acquired business into our operations; • we may not be able to eliminate as many redundant costs as we anticipate; • our operating and financial systems and controls and information services may not be compatible with those of the companies we may acquire and may not be adequate to support our integration efforts, and any steps we take to improve these systems and controls may not be sufficient; • growth through acquisitions will increase our need for qualified personnel, who may not be available to us or, if they were employed by a business we acquire, remain with us after the acquisition; and • acquired businesses may have unexpected liabilities and contingencies, which could be significant. Our failure to maintain adequate billing, customer service, information systems and data security could limit our ability to increase our services and, in some cases, expose us to potential liability. We depend on sophisticated information and processing systems to grow, monitor costs, bill customers, provision customer orders and achieve operating efficiencies. Our inability to identify adequately all of our information and processing needs, to process the information effectively or accurately, to upgrade our systems as necessary or to manage confidential customer data could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We also depend on operations support systems and other carriers to order and receive network elements and wholesale services from the incumbent carriers. These systems are necessary for carriers like us to provide local service to customers on a timely and competitive basis. FCC rules, together with rules adopted by state public utility commissions, may not be implemented in a manner that will permit us to order, receive and provision network elements and other facilities in the manner necessary for us to provide many of our services. Existing and future federal and state laws and regulations also may affect the manner in which we are required to protect confidential customer data and other information, which could increase the cost of our operations and our potential liability if the security of our confidential customer data is breached. We may be subject to damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation. We may be subject to future claims that we have infringed patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. We may be unaware of filed patent applications and of issued patents that could relate to our products and services. Some of the largest communications providers, such as AT&T, Sprint and Verizon Communications, have substantial patent holdings. These providers have successfully asserted their claims against some communications companies, and have filed pending lawsuits against various competitive carriers. Parties successfully making claims of infringement against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could prevent or impede delivery of some of our services. If an infringement claim were successfully asserted or settled by us, we could have to pay significant damages or obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which could require us to pay substantial royalties and licensing fees. Further, the defense of any claims could be time-consuming and expensive, regardless of the merits of such claims. We are subject to risks associated with rapid changes in technology. Our business could suffer from unexpected developments in technology, or from our failure to adapt to these changes. The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, and we may be required to select one emerging technology over another. We will be unable to predict with any certainty, at the 27 Table of Contents time we are required to make our investments, whether the technology we have chosen will prove to be the most economic, efficient or capable of attracting customer usage. If we choose the wrong technology, or if our competitors develop or select a superior technology, we could lose our existing customers and be unable to attract new customers, which would harm our business and operations. Our business could suffer if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel. The loss of the services of our key personnel, or our inability to attract, recruit and retain sufficient or additional qualified personnel, could hurt our business. Our business is currently managed by a small number of key management and operating personnel, including our executive officers. Many members of our senior management team have extensive experience in the telecommunications industry. We do not maintain “key man” insurance on these employees. Because of current market conditions for our industry, our stock incentive program may not provide an adequate incentive to current or potential key employees to remain or become employed by us. Our network or other ground facilities could be damaged by natural catastrophes or terrorism. A major earthquake, tornado, hurricane, fire, terrorist attack on the United States, or other catastrophic event could damage our network, network operations center, central offices or corporate headquarters. Such an event could interrupt our service and harm our business in the affected areas. We do not have replacement or redundant facilities that we can use to provide alternative means of service to all customers or under every circumstance in the event of a catastrophic event. Any damage to our network could result in degradation of our service for some customers and could result in complete loss of service in affected areas. Affiliates of Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe own securities representing a majority of our voting power, which gives them the ability to exercise significant or controlling influence over major corporate actions by us. The controlling affiliates of the investment funds that constitute Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe, a private equity firm, have reported in SEC filings that, as of the date of this report, such affiliates and the funds, as a group, beneficially owned common stock representing approximately 50.5% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Based upon their existing capital stock ownership, the members of this group currently have the right to control the outcome of actions involving our company or its assets that require stockholder approval. In addition, three of our nine directors are members of, or affiliated with members of, this group. The Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe group may have interests with respect to our company that differ from those of our other stockholders as a result of significant investments by the group in other communications companies. A change of control of our company may affect our rights under existing contracts. The voting power of the Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe group may decline to below 50% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock as a result of sales of shares of our common stock by us or by the group, or our issuance of shares pursuant to employee plan equity-based awards. In such an event, we may have to obtain regulatory approvals in connection with a deemed change of control of our company. In addition, such an event may trigger the exercise of specified rights by parties with whom we have agreements. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower the price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise funds in future securities offerings. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through a public offering of our equity securities. 28 Table of Contents We and some of our securityholders are parties to registration rights agreements under which those securityholders are entitled, subject to some limitations and qualifications, to shelf, demand and piggy-back registration rights with respect to the our common stock owned by such securityholders from time to time. As of the date of this report, up to approximately 54,500,000 outstanding shares of our common stock, which constitute up to approximately 81% of our outstanding shares of common stock, may be entitled to these registration rights. Our investment portfolio is subject to market fluctuations that may adversely affect our liquidity. Although we have not experienced any losses on our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, declines in the market values of these investments in the future could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Historically, we have invested our cash balances primarily in AAAm- and Aaa-rated money market funds. Investments in these funds are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be directly or indirectly affected by the U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. If any issuer defaults on its obligations or its credit ratings are negatively affected by liquidity problems, losses or other factors, the value of our cash equivalents and short-term investments could decline and could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting or fail to implement any required changes, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are required to provide annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our 2007 fiscal year, and thereafter will be required to provide reports by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. Ensuring that we have adequate internal control over financial reporting so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort. Implementing any required changes to our internal controls may require modifications to our existing accounting systems or the engagement of additional accounting personnel. Any failure by us to maintain adequate internal controls, or our inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and impair our ability to operate our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 