Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to execute our business strategy, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. During 2010, we were acquired by EarthLink. As a result, we will be offering additional services we do not currently provide and offering our existing services in new markets. In addition, our services will be re-branded as EarthLink Business. There can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. We may have difficulty managing the new products and services, entering into new markets or combining service offerings and sales forces, especially where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve name recognition or status under our new brand that is comparable to the recognition and status under our previous brand. Our revenues have been declining and we expect the revenues from certain aspects of our business to continue to decline. Therefore, the inability to successfully im plement our new business strategy to counteract these declining revenues could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The continuing effects of adverse economic conditions could harm our business. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including recession and disruptions to the credit and financial markets, could negatively affect our business. Our customers are particularly exposed to a weak economy. These conditions could adversely affect the affordability of, and customer demand for, some of our products and services and could cause customers to delay or forgo purchases of our products and services. Also, our business customers may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenues to decline, churn to increase, allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable to increase or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, our business is dependent on third-party vendors for services and network equipment 14 Table of Contents integral to our business, some of which may be experiencing financial distress. If these vendors encounter or continue to encounter financial difficulties, their ability to supply services and network equipment to us may be curtailed. If such vendors were to fail, we may not be able to replace them without disruption to, or deterioration of, our service and we may incur higher costs. Acquirers of distressed suppliers may not continue to upgrade technology associated with the type of equipment we use in our network. If we were required to purchase another manufacturer’s equipment, we could incur significant initial costs to integrate the equipment into our network and to train personnel to use the new equipment, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any interruption in the services provided by our third-party vendors could adversely affect our busines s, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to customers, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. The market for telecommunications services is characterized by changing technology, changes in customer needs and frequent new service and product introductions, and we may be required to select one emerging technology over another. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to use leading technologies effectively, to continue to develop our technical expertise, to enhance our existing services and to develop new services that meet changing customer needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing technology, customer requirements and industry standards. Such changes could include the increasing use of wireless forms of communication, such as handheld Internet-access devices and mobile phones, new competitors such as VoIP providers. In addition, the development and offering of new services in response to new technologies or customer demands may require us to increase our capital expenditures significantly. Moreover, new technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws and therefore may be available only to our competitors and not to us. Any of these factors could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We face significant competition that could reduce our profitability. The communications industry is highly competitive, and we expect this competition to intensify. These markets are rapidly changing due to industry consolidation, an evolving regulatory environment and the emergence of new technologies. We compete directly or indirectly with ILECs, such as AT&T, Qwest Communications and Verizon Communications; other competitive telecommunications companies, such as Covad Communications, Level 3 Communications, PAETEC, Windstream Corporation and XO Holdings; interexchange carriers, such as Global Crossing and Sprint Nextel; wireless and satellite service providers; cable service providers, such as Charter Communications, Inc., Comcast, Cox Communications, Inc. and Time Warner Cable; and stand-alone voice-over-Internet-Protocol (“VoIP”) providers. Competition could adversely impact us in several ways, including (i) the loss of customers and resulting revenue, (ii) the possibility of customers reducing their usage of our services or shifting to less profitable services, (iii) reduced traffic on our networks, (iv) our need to expend substantial time or money on new capital improvement projects, (v) our need to lower prices or increase marketing expenses to remain competitive and (vi) our inability to diversify by successfully offering new products or services. We believe the primary competitive factors in the communications industry include price, availability, reliability of service, network security, variety of service offerings, quality of service and reputation of the service provider. While we believe our business services compete favorably based on some of these factors, we are at a competitive disadvantage relative to some or all of these factors with respect to some of our competitors. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater market presence, engineering, technical and marketing capabilities and financial, personnel and other resources substantially greater than ours; own larger and more diverse networks; are subject to less regulation; or have substantially stronger brand names. In addition, industry consolidation has resulted in larger competitors that have greater economies of scale. Consequently, these competitors may be better equipped to charge lower prices for their products and services, to provide more attractive offerings, to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and to devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services. 15 Table of Contents We expect to continue to face significant pricing and product competition from AT&T and other ILECs that currently are the dominant providers of telecommunications services in our markets. We may be required to reduce further some or all of the prices we charge for our retail local, long distance and data services as a result of the mergers of BellSouth, SBC and AT&T and of MCI and Verizon which have increased substantially their respective market power; the increase of cable companies, wireless carriers and providers of alternative forms of communication that rely on VoIP or similar applications; recent regulatory decisions that have decreased regulatory oversight of incumbent local telephone companies; and new broadband providers with cost structures lower than ours as a result of governmental subsidies. As a result, we may be required to reduce further some or all of the prices we ch arge for our retail local, long distance and data services which could adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations. We may not be able to compete effectively if we are unable to install additional network equipment or convert our network to more advanced technology. We may find it necessary to convert our existing network to a network using more advanced technology. We may not have or be able to raise the significant capital that a conversion may require, or be able to complete the installation of additional network equipment and the conversion to more advanced technology in a timely manner, at a commercially reasonable cost or at all. We also may face technological problems that cannot be resolved. If we are unable to successfully install or operate new network equipment or to convert our network to a network using more advanced technology, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to obtain and maintain necessary permits and rights-of-way could interfere with our network infrastructure and operations. To obtain and maintain rights-of-way and similar franchises and licenses needed to install, operate and maintain fiber optic cable and our other network elements, we must negotiate and manage agreements with state highway authorities, local governments, transit authorities, local telephone companies and other utilities, railroads, long distance carriers and other parties. If we lose access to a right-of-way and had to remove and relocate our facilities, our cash flows could be adversely affected. Our business may suffer if third parties used for customer service and technical support and certain billing services are unable to provide these services or terminate their relationships with us. Our business and financial results depend, in part, on the availability and quality of our customer service and technical support and certain billing services, including collection services. If one or more of our service providers does not provide us with quality services, or if our relationship with any of our third party vendors terminates and we are unable to provide those services internally or identify a replacement vendor in an orderly, cost-effective and timely manner, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could suffer. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Decisions by the Federal Communications Commission relieving incumbent telephone companies of certain regulatory requirements, and possible further deregulation in the future, may restrict our ability to provide services and may increase the costs we incur to provide these services. We rely in significant part on purchasing wholesale services and leasing network facilities from AT&T and other incumbent local exchange carriers. Over the past several years, the FCC has reduced or eliminated a number of regulations governing the incumbent carriers’ offerings, including removal of local switching and other network elements from the list of elements that the incumbent carriers must provide on an unbundled basis at TELRIC cost-based rates, as well as the grant of broad pricing flexibility to incumbents for their special access services in many areas. If the incumbent carriers do not continue to cooperate by permitting us to purchase these services from them under commercial arrangements at reasonable rates, our business could be adversely affected and our cost of providing local exchange service could increase. This can have a significant adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. If the FCC, Congress, state legislatures or state regulatory agencies were to adopt measures further reducing the local competition-related obligations of incumbent local exchange carriers or allowing those carriers to increase further the rates we must pay, we could experience additional increases in operating costs that would negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. Our wholesale services, including our broadband transport services, continue to be adversely affected by pricing pressure, network overcapacity, service cancellations and other factors. We have continued to experience adverse trends related to our wholesale service offerings, including our broadband transport services and local interconnection business, which have resulted primarily from a reduction in rates charged to our customers due to overcapacity in the broadband services business and from service cancellations by some customers. Pending or contemplated consolidations in our industry also may continue to affect adversely our wholesale services business by improving the resources of the consolidating companies and reducing their demand for our services as those companies upgrade their own networks and consolidate their voice and data traffic on those networks. We expect that these factors will result in continued declines in revenues and cash flows from our wholesale service offerings. Such declines will have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results be cause of the higher gross margins associated with our wholesale services. Our operating performance will suffer if we are not offered competitive rates for the access services we need to provide our long distance services. We depend on other communications companies to originate and terminate a significant portion of the long distance traffic initiated by our customers. Our operating performance will suffer if we are not offered these access services at rates that are substantially equivalent to the costs of, and rates charged to, our competitors and that permit profitable pricing of our long distance services. The charges for access services historically have made up a significant percentage of our overall cost of providing long distance service. Some of our Internet-based competitors generally have been exempt from these and other regulatory charges, which could give them a significant cost advantage over us in this area. The FCC currently is considering what charges, if any, should be assessed on long distance and other interconnected voice services provided over the Internet. We have experienced and may continue to experience reductions in switched access and reciprocal compensation revenue. Over the past several years, we have experienced a decline in our revenues for switched access and reciprocal compensation. These revenues may continue to decline as a result of lower volume of traditional long distance voice minutes and FCC and state regulations compelling a reduction of switched access and reciprocal compensation rates. The FCC has been considering proposals for an integrated intercarrier compensation regime under which all traffic exchanged between carriers would be subject to a 17 Table of Contents unified rate. Such changes could materially reduce our switched access revenue from other carriers. We cannot predict the outcome of pending FCC rule makings related to intercarrier compensation. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering, rules that lower or cap the switched access rates of competitive carriers. Switched access and reciprocal compensation together have been declining over time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compensate for the reduction in intercarrier compensation revenue with other revenue sources or increased volume. Our inability to maintain our network infrastructure, portions of which we do not own, could adversely affect our operating results. We have effectively extended our network by entering into agreements with public utility companies to sell long-haul private line services on the fiber optic networks owned by these companies. Any cancellation or non-renewal of any of these agreements, any adverse legal ruling with respect to our rights under any of these agreements, or any future failure by us to acquire and maintain similar network agreements in these or other markets as necessary could materially adversely affect our operations. In addition, some of our agreements with the public utility companies are non-exclusive, and our business would suffer from any reduction in the amount of capacity they make available to us. If we are unable to interconnect with AT&T and other incumbent carriers on acceptable terms, our ability to offer competitively priced local telephone services will be adversely affected. To provide local telephone and some data services, we must interconnect with and resell the services of the incumbent carriers to supplement our own network facilities, pursuant to interconnection agreements between us and the incumbent carriers. As the original term of each of our interconnection agreements expires, it typically will be renewed on a month-to-month basis until it is replaced by a successor agreement. Further, federal regulators have adopted substantial modifications to the requirements that obligate AT&T and other former monopoly local telephone companies to provide to us at cost-based rates the elements of their telephone networks that enable us to offer many of our services at competitive rates. Moreover, in areas outside of the territories of former Regional Bell Operating Companies in which we do business, such as the territories of CenturyLink, Frontier Communications, Windstream, and Fairpoint Communications, those incumbents carriers are subject to less wholesale regulation than are the Regional Bell Operating Companies and tend to have less favorable interconnection options available to competitive carriers. If we are unable to enter into or maintain favorable interconnection agreements in our markets, our ability to provide local services on a competitive and profitable basis may be adversely affected. Any successful effort by the incumbent carriers to deny or substantially limit our access to their network elements or wholesale services also would harm our ability to provide local telephone services. Government regulations could adversely affect our business or force us to change our business practices. The regulatory environment relating to our business continues to evolve. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals under consideration by federal, state and local governmental entities may lead to the repeal, modification or introduction of laws or regulations which do, or could, affect our business. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by future changes of legal and regulatory rights or obligations. Local and long distance. We are required to comply with telecommunications regulations implemented by federal, state and local governments. We are required to obtain authorizations from the FCC and state public utility commissions to offer some of our communications services, to file tariffs for many of our services and to comply with local license, franchise or permit requirements relating to installation and operation of our network. Many of these regulations continue to change. Failure to make proper payments for federal Universal Service Fund assessments, FCC regulatory fees or other amounts mandated by federal and state regulations; failure to maintain proper state tariffs and certifications; failure to comply with federal, state or local laws and regulations; failure to obtain and maintain required licenses, franchis es and permits; imposition of burdensome license, franchise or permit requirements for us to 18 Table of Contents operate in public rights-of-way; and imposition of new burdensome or adverse regulatory requirements could limit the types of services we provide or the terms on which we provide these services. Consumer protection. Federal and state governments have adopted consumer protection laws and undertaken enforcement actions to address advertising and user privacy. Our services and business practices, or changes to our services and business practices could subject us to investigation or enforcement actions if we fail to adequately comply with applicable consumer protection laws. Existing and future federal and state laws and regulations also may affect the manner in which we are required to protect confidential customer data and other information, which could increase the cost of our operations and our potential liability if the security of our confidential customer data is breached. Internet Protocol-enabled services. The FCC has held that cable modem services offered by cable television companies and broadband Internet services offered by incumbent local exchange carriers should be classified as “information services” and not telecommunications services subject to regulation under Title II of the Communications Act. The FCC is considering clarifications and changes to the regulatory status of services and applications using IP, including VoIP offerings. Changes to the rules Internet protocol-enables services could impact our cost of providing these services. Forbearance. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended, provides the FCC with the authority to not enforce, or “forbear” from enforcing, statutory requirements and regulations if certain public interest factors are satisfied. We expect reform to the FCC’s forbearance review process in the near future. The FCC has initiated a proceeding to establish strict evidentiary and filing procedures for review of forbearance petitions. If the FCC were to forbear from enforcing regulations that have been established to enable competing broadband Internet access and VoIP, our consumer services business could be adversely affected. In addition, with respect to our business services, regulatory authorities generally have decreased their oversight of incumbent carriers and from time to time are asked to f orbear from applying a range of regulations to incumbent carriers, which may increase the competitive benefits these companies experience from their longstanding customer relationships and greater financial and technical resources, and may increase their ability to reduce prices for local and other network services by offsetting those reductions with revenue or profits generated by unrelated businesses, products or services Other laws and regulations. Our business also is subject to a variety of other U.S. laws and regulations from various entities, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, as well as by state and local regulatory agencies, that could subject us to liabilities, claims or other remedies. Compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and may require significant costs. In addition, the regulatory framework relating to Internet and communications services is evolving and both the federal government and states from time to time pass legislation that impacts our business. It is likely that additional laws and regulations will be adopted that would affect our business. We cannot predict the impact future laws, regulatory changes or developments may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations, increased enforcement activity of existing laws and regulations, or claims by individuals could significantly impact our costs or the manner in which we conduct business, all of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cause our business to suffer. For example, changes in policies or regulations mandating new environmental standards could increase our operating costs, such as utility costs at our switch sites, and changes in tax laws or the interpretation of existing tax laws by state and local authorities could increase our income, sales, property or other tax costs. In addition, our operations are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the cleanup of contamination and the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. As an owner or operator of property, we could incur significant costs as a result of violations or liabilities under such laws and regulations, including fines, penalties, cleanup costs and third-party claims. 19 Table of Contents Other Risks We may be unable to retain sufficient qualified personnel, which could adversely affect us. Our business depends on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel and our ability to effectively retain and motivate them. Competition for qualified personnel, including management, technical and sales personnel, may increase in a recovering economic environment. Acquisitions and workforce reductions may affect our ability to retain or replace key personnel, harm employee morale and productivity or disrupt our business. Key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us following a merger transaction. Effective succession planning is important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and transitions involving key employees could hinder execution of our business strategies. Interruption or failure of our network and information systems and other technologies could impair our ability to provide our services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. Our network, network operations centers, central offices, corporate headquarters and those of our third party service providers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, break ins, computer denial of service attacks, computer hackings, computer viruses, worms or other attempts to harm our systems, and similar events. Our ability to provide communications services also could be materially adversely affected by a cable cut, switch failure or other equipment failure along our fiber optic network or along any other fiber optic network on which we lease transmission capacity. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be adequate. Further, any security breaches, such as misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or acci dental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data, could damage our reputation and require us to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. We may experience service interruptions or system failures in the future. Any service interruption adversely affects our ability to operate our business and could result in an immediate loss of revenues. If we experience frequent or persistent system or network failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We may make significant capital expenditures to increase the reliability of our systems, but these capital expenditures may not achieve the results we expect. The occurrence of any such network or information system-related events or security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our business depends on effective business support systems and processes. Our business relies on our data, billing and other operational and financial reporting and control systems. To effectively manage our technical support infrastructure we will need to continue to maintain our data, billing, and other operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, which can be costly. We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any interruption in the availability of our business support systems, in particular our billing system, could result in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues. Frequent or persistent system failures could cause customers to believe our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors and could permanently harm our reputation. We also depend on operations support systems and other carriers to order and receive network elements and wholesale services from the incumbent carriers. These systems are necessary for carriers like us to provide local service to customers on a timely and competitive basis. FCC rules, together with rules adopted by state public utility commissions, may not be implemented in a manner that will permit us to order, receive, provision and maintain network elements and other facilities in the manner necessary for us to provide many of our services. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to protect our intellectual property. We regard our EarthLink Business trademark as a valuable asset to our business. Additionally, our service marks, proprietary technologies, domain names and similar intellectual property are also important to the success of our business. We principally rely upon trademark law as well as contractual restrictions to establish and protect our technology and proprietary rights and information. We require employees and consultants and, when possible, suppliers and distributors to sign confidentiality agreements, and we generally control access to, and distribution of, our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, our brand image may be harmed and our business may suffer. In addition, protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights is expensive and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and consequently harm our operating results. We may be accused of infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, which is costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. From time to time, third parties have alleged that we infringe on their intellectual property rights. We may be unaware of filed patent applications and of issued patents that could be related to our products and services. Some of the largest communications providers, such as AT&T, Sprint Nextel and Verizon Communications, have substantial patent holdings. These providers have successfully asserted their claims against some communications companies, and have filed pending lawsuits against various competitive carriers. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. None of these claims has had an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell and support our services. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, are time-consuming and costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our methods of doing business, could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or could require us to cease conducting certain operations. Any of these events could result in increases in operating expenses or could limit or reduce the number of our service offerings. If we, or other industry participants, are unable to successfully defend against legal actions, we could face substantial liabilities or suffer harm to our financial and operational prospects. We are currently a party to various legal actions, including patent litigation and legal proceedings regarding the use of rights-of-way for our network. Defending against these lawsuits may involve significant expense and diversion of management’s attention and resources from other matters. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we may not prevail in these actions. In addition, our ongoing operations may subject us to litigation risks and costs in the future. Both the costs of defending lawsuits and any settlements or judgments against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We also expect to continue to be subject to the risks associated with the resolution of various third-party disputes, lawsuits, arbitrations and proceedings affecting our business. The deregulation of the telecommunications industry, the implementation of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the evolution of telecommunications infrastructure from time-division multiplexing to Internet Protocol, and the distress of many carriers in the telecommunications industry as a result of continued competitive factors and financial pressures have resulted in the involvement of numerous industry participants in disputes, lawsuits, proceedings and arbitrations before state and federal regulatory commissions, private arbitration organizations such as the American Arbitration Association, and courts over many issues that will be important to our financial and operational success. These issues include the interpretation and enforcement of existing interconnection agreements and tariffs, the terms of new interconnection agreements, operating performance obligations, intercarrier compensation, treatment of different categories of traffic (for example, traffic originated or terminated on wireless or VoIP), the jurisdiction of traffic for intercarrier compensation purposes, the wholesale services and facilities available to us, the prices we will pay for those services and facilities, and the regulatory treatment of new technologies and services. 21 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and limit our ability to react to changes in our industry. As of December 31, 2010, we had $325.0 million outstanding principal amount of 10.5% senior secured notes due 2016 (the “Notes”). Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us. For example, it could: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund our business activities; · limit our ability to secure additional financing, if necessary; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. The indenture that governs the Notes impose operating and financial restrictions that limit our discretion on some business matters, which could make it more difficult for us to expand, finance our operations and engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. These restrictions include compliance with or maintenance of specified financial tests and ratios and will limit our ability to sell assets; incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; incur certain liens; make loans and investments; enter into agreements restricting subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of their assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. We may incur indebtedness in addition to the foregoing indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness we may incur in the future may subject us to similar or even more restrictive conditions. Our ability to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability in the future to generate cash flows from operations, which is subject to all the risks of our business. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations for us to repay our indebtedness when such indebtedness becomes due and to meet our other cash needs. We are a wholly-owned subsidiary of EarthLink and therefore subject to strategic decisions of EarthLink and affected by EarthLink’s performance. We are fundamentally affected by our relationship with EarthLink. As a wholly-owned subsidiary of EarthLink, we are managed by officers and employees of EarthLink and we are subject to a wide range of possible strategic decisions that EarthLink may make from time to time. Those strategic decisions could include the level and types of financing we provide to support the business of EarthLink and its subsidiaries, subject to the terms of the indenture governing the Notes, and the level and types of transactional or other support made available to us by EarthLink. In addition, circumstances affecting EarthLink can significantly affect us. Significant changes in EarthLink’s strategy or in its relationship with us or material adverse changes in the performance of EarthLink or its other subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on us. The outstanding debt and other securities of ours are not obligations of EarthLink or other EarthLink subsidiaries. As a wholly-owned subsidiary of EarthLink, any arrangements or agreements between the two entities may have different terms than would have been negotiated by independent, unrelated parties. The arrangements and agreements between us and EarthLink may have different terms and provisions than would have been negotiated by independent, unrelated parties. Conflicts of interest could arise relating to the nature, quality and pricing of services or products provided by us to EarthLink or by EarthLink to us, any payment of dividends by us to EarthLink, any prepayment of the borrowings by us from EarthLink and general issues relating to maintaining or increasing our profitability. The terms of the indenture governing our Notes require that transactions we enter into with EarthLink and its other affiliates be conducted on an arm’s length basis; however, there can be no assurance that the terms of these arrangements are the same as would be negotiated between independent, unrelated parties. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 