D. Risk Factors Exploration, Development and Production Risks An investment in the securities of the Company is speculative due to the Company’s involvement in the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas, and its present stage of development. The Company’s principal long term objective is to grow the Company into an oil and gas exploration, development and production company, with internally generated oil and gas sales revenues sufficient to maintain a selective grass roots exploration program to augment and replace produced reserves. The Company seeks additional reserves and production growth through carefully considered acquisitions of additional oil and gas properties. The Company plans to expand as, and when, available cash flow and meritorious opportunities permit. Its long term goal is to maximise capital appreciation of the Company's common shares to reflect management’s perceived value of its existing assets and potential resources not yet discovered. Management will continue to evaluate prospects on an ongoing basis in a manner consistent with industry standards and company strategy. The long term commercial success of the Company depends on its ability to find, acquire, develop and commercially produce oil and natural gas reserves. The Company focuses its efforts mainly in the Taranaki region of New Zealand, where sizable tracts of acreage can be accumulated, a positive history of oil exploration success exists and, even though the acreage is relatively under-explored, geological conditions are favorable for hydrocarbon accumulation. The Taranaki region is where the Company’s manpower, expertise and technical resources are already principally deployed. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to locate satisfactory properties for acquisition or participation. Moreover, if such acquisitions or participations are identified, the Company may determine that current markets, terms of acquisition and participation or pricing conditions make such acquisitions or participations uneconomic. Future oil and gas exploration may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Completion of a well does not assure a profit on the investment, or recovery of drilling, completion and operating costs. Geological conditions are variable and of limited predictability. Even if production is commenced from a well or field, production will inevitably decline over the course of time, reducing the operating profitability of the Company. Operating Hazards and Environmental Liabilities Drilling hazards or environmental damage could greatly increase the cost of operations and various field operating conditions may adversely affect the production from successful wells. These conditions include, but are not limited to, delays in obtaining governmental approvals or consents, shut-ins of connected wells resulting from extreme weather conditions, encountering unexpected formations or pressures, premature declines of reservoirs, blow-outs, cratering, sour gas releases, fires and spills, premature decline of reservoirs and the invasion of water into producing formations, insufficient storage or transportation capacity or other geological and mechanical conditions. While close well supervision and effective maintenance operations can contribute to maximizing production rates and recoveries over time, production delays and declines from normal field operating conditions cannot be eliminated and can be expected to adversely affect the long term continuity of revenue and cash flow levels to varying degrees. All phases of the oil and natural gas business present environmental risks and hazards and are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of local and international conventions, laws and regulations. Environmental legislation provides for, among other things, restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with oil and natural gas operations. Exploration legislation also requires that wells and facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures and a breach may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which may be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner expected to result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. The discharge of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to governments and third parties and may require the Company to incur costs to remedy such discharge. No assurance can be given that environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or a material increase in the costs of production, development or exploration activities or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or prospects. - 10 - The Company is not aware of any present material liability related to environmental matters. However, it may, in the future, be subject to liability for environmental offences of which it is presently unaware. Oil and Natural Gas Market The operations and earnings of the Company and its subsidiaries are also affected by local, regional and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for oil and natural gas. These events or conditions are generally not predictable and include, among other things, the development of new supply sources, supply disruptions, weather, international political events, technological advances, and the competitiveness of alternative energy sources or product substitutes. The availability of a ready market for oil and gas discovered by the Company depends on numerous factors beyond its control, including the proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and the effect of regional or national regulations. Both oil and natural gas prices are subject to fluctuation. The economics of producing from some wells may change as a result of lower prices, which could result in a reduction in the volumes produced by the Company. Any material decline in prices could result in a reduction of the Company’s net production revenue. The Company might also elect not to produce from certain wells at lower prices. All of these factors could result in a material decrease in the Company’s net production revenue causing a reduction in its oil and gas acquisition and development activities. Although the Company currently does not do so, in order to partially hedge the effect of fluctuating oil and natural gas prices, the Company may in the future enter into oil and/or natural gas price swaps that fix the price that the Company will receive on a portion of its production for a specified period of time. Competition The international petroleum industry is competitive in all its phases. The Company competes with numerous other participants in the search for oil and gas, the acquisition of oil and gas properties, the marketing of oil and natural gas and in obtaining skilled industry personnel. The Company’s competitors include oil and gas companies which have greater financial resources, staff and facilities than the Company. Certain of the Company’s customers and potential customers are themselves exploring for oil and natural gas, and the results of such exploration efforts could affect the Company’s ability to sell or supply oil or gas to these customers in the future. The Company’s ability to successfully bid on and acquire additional property rights, discover reserves, participate in drilling opportunities and identify and enter into commercial arrangements with customers will be dependent upon developing and maintaining close working relationships with future industry participants and joint venturers, and its ability to select and evaluate suitable properties and consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Funding Requirements Oil exploration involves a high degree of technical and commercial risk and is characterized by a continuous need for fresh capital. The Company seeks to minimize and spread this risk by joint-venturing oil exploration projects with other companies and participating in properties exhibiting a range of risk profiles to reduce its cost exposure to any one project. The development of any reserves found on the Company’s exploration properties may depend upon the Company’s ability to obtain further financing through joint venturing of projects, debt financing or equity financing. There is no assurance that market conditions will continue to permit the Company to raise funds if required, or that the Company will be able to enter into agreements with third parties to fund permit obligations or be able to renegotiate such obligations. The Company faces competition from other oil companies for oil and gas properties and investor dollars. The Company seeks to minimize these effects by focusing on the market niches of exploration and early development stage properties where its technical competence and experience give it a credible advantage. If the Company’s cash flow from operations is not sufficient to satisfy its capital expenditure requirements, there can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available to meet these requirements. If the Company is unable to fund its permit obligations by share issues or farm-out agreements or to renegotiate such obligations, the Company may be unable to carry out its plan of operations and may be forced to abandon or forfeit some of its permit interests, or reduce or terminate its operations. - 11 - Insurance The Company’s involvement in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties may result in the Company becoming subject to liability for pollution, blow outs, property damage, personal injury or other hazards. Although the Company has obtained insurance in accordance with industry standards to address such risks, such insurance has limitations on liability that may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of such liabilities. In addition, such risks may not be insurable, in all circumstances, or the Company may elect, in certain circumstances, not to obtain insurance to deal with specific risks due to the high premiums associated with such insurance or other reasons. The payment of such uninsured liabilities would reduce the funds available to the Company. The occurrence of a significant event that the Company is not fully insured against, or the insolvency of the insurer of such event, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or prospects. Uncertainty of Reserves Figures Estimates of production expenditures, revenues and reserves will likely vary from actual, and these variances may be material. Estimates of oil and gas reserves are interpreted from geological, petro-physical and reservoir engineering data. Such interpretations are inherently uncertain, as are the projections of future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The accuracy of the reserves estimates is a function of the quality of available data, engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Factors such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, assumed effects of governmental regulations, assumptions of future oil and gas prices, future operating costs, development costs and remedial and work-over costs, will affect the estimates of economically recoverable quantities and of future net cash flow. Any significant variance in the assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of reserves. No Assurance of Earnings The Company currently has one oil and gas property nearing the production stage. The Company has an accumulated deficit from its historical operating results and there is no assurance that the business of the Company will be profitable in the future. The Company cannot guarantee that it will continue generating revenues in the future. A failure to generate revenues may cause the Company to eventually go out of business. The Company has not paid dividends at any time in its history to date and there is no assurance that the Company will pay a dividend at any time in the future. Reliance on Operators and Key Employees To the extent the Company is not the operator of its oil and gas properties, the Company depends on third party operators for the timing of activities related to such properties and may be largely unable to direct or control the activities of the operators, except through joint venture participation and voting. In addition, the success of the Company will be largely dependent upon the performance of its key employees and on the advice and project management skills of various consulting geologists, geophysicists and engineers retained by the Company from time to time. Although there are other personnel available in the sector who could replace Company explorationists, there is likely to be some difficulty in finding immediate replacements of suitable calibre. Risks Relating to Papua New Guinea Some of the Company’s oil and gas interests are located in Papua New Guinea, a developing country which has historically experienced periods of civil unrest and political and economic instability. Oil and gas exploration and development activities in this jurisdiction may be affected in varying degrees by political instability, government regulations relating to the oil and gas industry and foreign investors, and the policies of other countries in respect of Papua New Guinea. Exploration or development activities in Papua New Guinea may require protracted negotiations with local and national governments, companies and third parties and may be subject to economic and political considerations, such as taxation, nationalisation, expropriation, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation and approval requirements, governmental regulation and the risk of actions by lawless factions, any of which could adversely affect the economics of exploration or development projects. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political condition are beyond the control of the Company and may adversely affect its business. Infrastructure development in Papua New Guinea is limited. In addition, the Company’s properties are located in remote areas, which may prove difficult to access. These factors may affect the Company’s ability to explore and develop its properties and to store and transport its oil and gas production. There can be no - 12 - assurance that future instability in Papua New Guinea will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or operations. Currency Fluctuations and Foreign Exchange The practice of the Company is to raise its equity in United States dollars. However when the Company listed on the New Zealand stock exchange, equity was also raised in New Zealand dollars. The Company holds cash denominated in both United States and New Zealand currency. The Company’s current property acquisition and exploration commitments are denominated in United States and New Zealand dollars and, to a much lesser extent, in currencies of other countries. Papua New Guinea, in which the Company operates, may impose foreign exchange restrictions that may materially affect the Company’s financial position and results of operations in that country. The Company does not currently hedge its exposure to currency rate changes, although it may choose to selectively hedge exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk. The Company manages this risk to some degree by shifting a portion of its excess cash from one currency to another in a timely fashion. See also Item 5.A.3 – Foreign Currency Fluctuations. Regulatory Requirements The current or future operations of the Company, including development activities and commencement of production on its properties, require permits from various foreign and local governmental authorities. Such operations are and will be governed by laws and regulations governing oil and gas exploration and development, prices, royalties, allowable production, import and export of hydrocarbons, restrictions on the withdrawal of capital from a country in which the Company is operating, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection and other matters. The Company’s operations require licences, permits and renewals of these from various governmental authorities. Management believes that the Company currently holds or has applied for all necessary licences and permits to carry on the activities which it is currently conducting under applicable laws and regulations in respect of its properties. The Company also believes that it is complying in all material respects with the terms of such licences and permits. However, the Company’s ability to obtain, sustain or renew such licences and permits on acceptable terms is subject to changes in regulations and policies and the discretion of the applicable governments. Failure to comply with all applicable laws, regulations and license and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions, including orders to cease or curtail operations, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in oil and gas operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of such activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations, licenses and permits governing operations and activities of oil and gas companies, or more stringent implementation of these, could have a material adverse impact on the Company and could cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new properties. The Company believes that its operations comply with all applicable legislation and regulations and that the existence of such legislation and regulations have no more restrictive effect on the Company’s method of operations than on similar companies in the industry. Labour Requirements The Company may be required to hire and train local workers in its petroleum and natural gas operations. Some of these workers may be organised into labour unions. Any strike activity or labour unrest could adversely affect the Company’s ongoing operations and its ability to explore for, produce and market its oil and gas production. Title Matters The Company has investigated the rights to explore the various oil and gas properties it holds or proposes to acquire or participate in and, to the best of its knowledge, those rights are in good standing, except PRL 4, over which the Department of Petroleum and Energy in Papua New Guinea has issued a “Notice to Show Cause” which potentially could result in the cancellation of that licence. However, the Company believes that - 13 - all work required to maintain the licence has been done. No assurance can be given that applicable governments will not revoke, or significantly alter the conditions of, the applicable exploration and development authorisations and that such exploration and development authorisations will not be challenged. In all cases, the terms and conditions of the permit or licence granting the right to the Company to explore for, and develop, hydrocarbons, prescribe a work programme and the date or dates by which such work programme must be done. Varying circumstances, including the financial resources available to the Company and reliance on third party operators in respect of its permits and licences, may result in the failure to satisfy the terms and conditions of a permit or licence and result in the complete loss of the interest in the permit or licence without compensation to the Company. Such terms and conditions may be renegotiated with applicable regulatory authorities, but there is no assurance that the applicable authority will agree to the renegotiation offer. The Company is not a majority interest owner in most of its properties and does not have sole control over the future course of development in those properties. Property interests may be subject to joint venture and other similar agreements which can give rise to interpretive disputes with other parties who are financially interested in the property. The Company participates in its permits or licences with other industry participants, some of whom have access to greater or lesser resources from which to meet their joint venture capital commitments. If the Company is unable to meet its commitments, the other joint venture participants may assume some or all of the Company’s deficiency and thereby assume a pro-rata portion of the Company’s interest in any production from the joint venture area. If a participant in a joint venture, which participant has fewer resources than the Company, is unable to meet its commitments, it may delay or veto exploration or development plans which it cannot afford. This may delay the Company’s desired exploration or development programme and/or lead to the Company and other participants assuming all or some of that entity’s interest, and therefore meeting a pro- rata share of its required contributions, as well as receiving a pro-rata share of any production. General claims of native peoples in New Zealand and Papua New Guinea may adversely affect the rights or operations of the Company, although the Company has not received any notice of any direct challenge to any of the Company’s titles or tenures. Non-US Assets and Management The Company is incorporated under the laws of the Yukon Territory, Canada, and all of the Company’s directors and officers are residents of countries other than the United States. Substantially all of the assets of the Company are located outside North America. Consequently, it may be difficult for United States investors to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company or upon its directors or officers, or to realize in the United States upon judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Furthermore, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments of the U.S. courts based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws in a foreign court against the Company or any of the Company’s non-U.S. resident officers or directors. Public Market Risks The Company’s shares are relatively illiquid in that they do not trade large volumes relative to other public companies. There can be no assurance that a stable or liquid market for the Company’s common shares will develop. If the Company fails to remain current in its filings with the SEC, Canadian and New Zealand regulatory authorities, the Company may lose its AMEX listing as well as its Canadian and New Zealand listings and the Company’s shareholders may not be able to resell their shares in the public market within the United States, as well as in the overseas markets. Dilution, Change of Control The Company’s Articles of Continuance authorise the issuance of an unlimited number of shares of common stock. The Company’s Board of Directors has the power to issue any further shares without stockholder approval, subject to compliance with the policies of the TSX-V and AMEX. The Company’s Board of Directors may issue some of such shares to acquire further capital in order to carry out its intended operations or expand its current operations, or to provide additional financing in the future. The issuance of any such shares may result in a reduction of the book value or market price of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common shares. If the Company does issue any such additional shares, such issuance will also cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all existing shareholders. Further, any such - 14 - issuance may result in a change of control of the Company. TSX-V policies require the Company to obtain shareholder approval of any transaction which will result in the creation of a new control person. Conflicts of Interest Interests in some petroleum properties have been acquired in conjunction with TAG Oil Ltd. with which the Company had a common director throughout the period ending December 2005 and has certain common principal shareholders. The Company owns shares in Rift Oil PLC (approximately 0.5% of issued share capital) to whom it has transferred an interest in a Papua New Guinea exploration licence under a farm-out arrangement. The Chief Executive Officer of Rift Oil PLC is both the Company’s former commercial manager as well as the spouse of the Company’s former Chief Executive Officer. Certain of the directors of the Company are or were directors and/or officers of these other corporations, or of other corporations engaged in the petroleum exploration and development industry. It is possible that conflicts of interest may arise between their duties as director and/or officer of the related companies, and as director or officer of the Company. The percentage participation of the Company and any other associated company in a property is determined by the Board of Directors of each such company independently, using the best business judgment of the Board. Under the Company’s By-laws and the relevant legislation, any such conflict of interest is required to be disclosed and any contract in which a director or officer has a material interest must be referred to the Board of Directors for approval, and the interested director will not vote on any resolution given such approval. Classification as a Passive Foreign Investment Company The Company believes it is a Passive Foreign Investment Company (“PFIC”), as that term is defined in Section 1297 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and believes it will be a PFIC for, at least, the following fiscal year. Consequently, this classification may result in adverse tax consequences for U.S. holders of the Company’s shares. For an explanation of these effects on taxation, see Item 10.D - Taxation. U.S. shareholders and prospective holders of the Company’s shares are also encouraged to consult their own tax advisers. ITEM 