ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results could be adversely affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, the most significant of which are described below, but in no particular order. Risks Relating to the Nature and Operation of Our Business The state and condition of the global financial markets and the U.S. economy may have an unpredictable impact on our business and financial condition. The global equity, capital and credit markets have recently been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and limited credit capacity for certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. In addition, deterioration in the global and United States economies has produced a drop in consumer confidence and spending, which has impacted corporate profits and resulted in cutbacks in advertising budgets. If the economic deterioration and/or current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience a further adverse effect, which may be material, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to access capital. For example, any worsening of the economy, a continuation of market volatility or further weakness in consumer spending could continue to adversely impact the overall demand for advertising. Such a result could have a negative effect on our revenues and results of operations. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Any worsening or deterioration of the economy’s ongoing gradual recovery could negatively impact our ability to meet our cash needs and our ability to maintain compliance with our debt covenants. As of the filing of this Form 10-K, based on our most recent revenue, operating income and cash flow projections, we believe it is probable the Company can meet its liquidity needs and maintain compliance with its debt covenants through December 31, 2010. It should be noted that certain covenants become considerably more restrictive in 2010. For example, our interest coverage ratio has changed from no less than 1.75 to 1.00 to no less than 2.00 to 1.00 for the period January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010. Further, our total leverage ratio will step down from no greater than 7.25 to 1.00 to no greater than 6.50 to 1.00 effective July 1, 2010 to September 30, 2011. Our projections are highly dependent on the continuation of the recently improving economic and advertising environments, and any adverse fluctuations, or other unforeseen cir cumstances, may negatively impact the Company’s operations beyond those assumed by management. If economic conditions deteriorate unexpectedly or do not continue to rebound, or if other adverse factors outside the Company’s control arise, our operations could be negatively impacted, which could reduce, negate or even prevent the Company from maintaining compliance with its debt covenants. If it appears that we could not meet our liquidity needs or that noncompliance with debt covenants is likely, the Company would implement several remedial measures, which could include further operating cost and capital expenditure reductions and deferrals, seeking its share of distributions from TV One (which requires the consent of third parties and cannot be assured) and/or further de-leveraging actions, which may include repurchases of discounted senior subordinated notes and other debt repayments, subject to our available liquidity to make such repurchases. If the above measures are not successful in maintaining compliance with our debt covenants, we would attempt to negotiate for relief through an amendment or refinancing with our lenders or negotiate waivers of covenant noncompliance, which could result in higher interest costs, additional fees and reduced borrowing limits. There is no assurance that we would be successful in reaching any definitive agreement to obtain relief from its debt covenant requirements in these circumstances. Failure to comply with our debt covenants and a corresponding failure to negotiate a favorable amendment or waivers with the Company’s lenders could result in the acceleration of the maturity of all outstanding debt, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial position. We are currently assessing the Company’s options regarding the refinancing and restructuring of the Company’s debt, as well as other strategic initiatives that we may undertake in the future. These options include entering into one or more amendments, refinancing transactions, retiring or purchasing our outstanding debt through cash purchases, prepayments and/or exchanges for newly issued debt or equity securities or obligations in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Our ability to consummate amendments, refinancings, repurchases, prepayments or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors some of which may be beyond our control. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Company will successfully e nter into any definitive agreements for such options, or that any of the strategic initiatives being assessed will occur in the future. Our revenue is substantially dependent on spending and allocation decisions by advertisers, and seasonality and/or weakening economic conditions may have an impact upon our business. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from sales of advertisements and program sponsorships to local and national advertisers. Cutbacks or changes in advertisers’ spending priorities and/or allocations across different types of media may affect our results. We do not obtain long-term commitments from our advertisers and advertisers may cancel, reduce or postpone advertisements without penalty, which could adversely affect our revenue. Seasonal net revenue fluctuations are common in the media industries and are due primarily to fluctuations in advertising expenditures by local and national advertisers. In addition, advertising revenues in even-numbered years tend to benefit from advertising placed by candidates for political offices. The effects of such seasonality, combined with the severe structural changes that have occu rred in the United States economy, make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter and may adversely affect operating results. Advertising expenditures also tend to be cyclical and reflect general economic conditions both nationally and locally. Because the Company derives a substantial portion of its revenues from the sale of advertising, a decline or delay in advertising expenditures could reduce the Company’s revenues or hinder its ability to increase these revenues. Advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the automotive, financial, entertainment and retail industries, represent a significant portion of the Company’s advertising revenues. Structural changes (such as a decreased number of automotive dealers) and business failures in these industries have affected our revenues and continued structural changes, consolidation or business failures in any of these industries could have significant further im pact on our revenues. Any political, economic, social or technological change resulting in a significant reduction in the advertising spending of these sectors could adversely affect the Company’s advertising revenues or its ability to increase such revenues. In addition, because many of the products and services offered by the Company’s advertisers are largely discretionary items, weakening economic conditions could reduce the consumption of such products and services and, thus, reduce advertising for such products and services. Changes in advertisers’ spending priorities during economic cycles (such as the current cycle) may also affect our results. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities also could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. 11 Pricing for advertising may continue to face downward pressure. During 2009, in response to weakness and fluctuations in the economy, advertisers increasingly purchased lower-priced inventory rather than higher-priced inventory, and increasingly demanded lower pricing, in addition to increasingly purchasing later and through advertising inventory from third-party advertising networks. If advertisers continue to demand lower-priced inventory and continue to put downward pressure on pricing, our operating margins and ability to generate revenue could be further adversely affected. The Company’s success is dependant upon audience acceptance of its content, particularly its radio programs, which is difficult to predict. Media and radio content production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of media content or a radio program, and the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with the content or program, depend primarily upon their acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of content or a program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict. Finally, the costs of content and programming may change significantly if new performance royalt ies are imposed upon radio broadcasters or internet operators and such changes could have a material impact upon our business. Ratings for broadcast stations and traffic or visitors on a particular website are also factors that are weighed when advertisers determine outlets to use and in determining the advertising rates that the outlet receives. Poor ratings or traffic levels can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising revenues. For example, if there is an event causing a change of programming at one of the Company’s stations, there could be no assurance that any replacement programming would generate the same level of ratings, revenues or profitability as the previous programming. In addition, changes in ratings methodology and technology could adversely impact our ratings and negatively affect our advertising revenues. Arbitron, the leading supplier of ratings data for United States radio markets, has developed technology to passively collect data for its ratings service. The PPMTM is a small, pager-sized device that does not require any active manipulation by the end user and is capable of automatically measuring radio, television, Internet, satellite radio and satellite television signals that are encoded for the service by the broadcaster. Our Atlanta, Baltimore, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Dallas, Detroit, Houston, Philadelphia, St. Louis and Washington, DC market ratings are being measured by the PPMTM. In each market, there has been a compression in the relative ratings of all stati ons in the market, enhancing the competitive pressure within the market for advertising dollars. In addition, ratings for certain stations when measured by the PPMTM as opposed to the traditional diary methodology can be materially different. PPMTM based ratings are scheduled to be introduced in all of our other markets, except Richmond, by October 2010. Due to its smaller market size, Richmond will remain on the diary methodology. Because of the competitive factors we face and the introduction of the PPMTM, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising revenue. A disproportionate share of our net revenue comes from radio stations in a small number of geographic markets and from Reach Media. Within our core radio business, four of the 16 markets in which we operate radio stations accounted for approximately 50.1% of our radio station net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. Revenue from the operations of Reach Media, along with revenue from both the Houston and Washington, DC markets accounted for approximately 40.8% of our total consolidated net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. Adverse events or conditions (economic or otherwise) could lead to declines in the contribution of Reach Media or to declines in one or more of the significant contributing markets (Houston, Washington, DC, Atlanta and Baltimore), which could have a material adverse effect on our overall financial performance and results of operations. Our relationship with a significant customer has changed and we no longer have a guaranteed level of revenue from that customer. We have historically derived a significant portion of our net revenue from a single customer, Radio Networks, LLC (“Radio Networks”), a media representation firm which is owned by Citadel. Up until December 31, 2009, Reach Media, a subsidiary of which the Company owns 53.5%, derived a substantial majority of its net revenue from a sales representative agreement (the “Sales Representation Agreement”) with Radio Networks. The Sales Representation Agreement called for Radio Networks to act as Reach Media’s sales representative primarily for advertising airing on over 105 affiliate radio stations broadcasting the Tom Joyner Morning Show, and to also serve as its sales representative for internet and events sales. The Sales Representation Agreement provided for Radio Networks to retain a portion of Reach Media’s advertising revenues only after satisfying certain minimum revenue guarantee obligations to Reach Media. Further, but to a lesser extent, revenue for Company owned radio stations was also generated from Radio Networks for barter agreements whereby the Company provided advertising time in exchange for programming content (the “RN Barter Revenue”). Net revenue attributable to the Sales Representation Agreement and the RN Barter Revenue began to account for more than 10% of our total consolidated net revenues as of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 accounted for 11.9%, 10.6% and 10.8%, respectively, of our total consolidated net revenues. During the quarter ended September 30, 2009, Reach Media and Citadel reached an agreement whereby the revenue guarantee obligation to Reach Media for November and December 2009 was reduced by $1.0 million each in exchange for prepayment of the reduced revenue guarantee obligation for fourth quarter of 2009. Further, the Sales Representation Agreement expired by its terms on December 31, 2009. Reach Media continues to retain Radio Networks in a sales representation capacity; however, Radio Networks is now compensated on a commission basis and Reach Media does not benefit from any guaranteed revenue under its current arrangement with Radio Networks. Further, Reach Media has established its own sales force that is primarily selling in-program advertising inventory. However, there is no assurance tha t we will be able to replace the lost guaranteed revenue with revenues from new or other existing customers. It should be noted that Radio Networks is a subsidiary of Citadel and Citadel filed for bankruptcy on December 20, 2009. We may lose audience share and advertising revenue to our competitors. Our radio stations and other media properties compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other radio stations and station groups and other media such as broadcast television, newspapers, magazines, cable television, satellite television, satellite radio, outdoor advertising, the internet and direct mail. Adverse changes in audience ratings, internet traffic and market shares could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Larger media companies with more financial resources than we have may enter the markets in which we operate causing competitive pressure. Further, other media and broadcast companies may change their programming format or engage in aggressive promotional campaigns to compete directly with our media properties for audiences and advertisers. This competition could result in lower rati ngs or traffic and, hence, lower advertising revenue for us or cause us to increase promotion and other expenses and, consequently, lower our earnings and cash flow. Changes in population, demographics, audience tastes and other factors beyond our control, including the impact of new audience measurement technology, could also cause changes in audience ratings or market share. Failure by us to respond successfully to these changes could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising revenue. If we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate businesses pursuant to our diversification strategy, our business and prospects may be adversely impacted. We are pursuing a strategy of acquiring and investing in other forms of media that complement our core radio business in an effort to grow and diversify our business and revenue streams. This strategy depends on our ability to find suitable opportunities and obtain acceptable financing. Negotiating transactions and integrating an acquired business could result in significant costs and use of management’s time and resources. Our diversification strategy partially depends on our ability to identify attractive media properties at reasonable prices and to divest properties that are no longer strategic to our business. Further, entering new businesses may subject us to additional risk factors. Some of the material risks that could hinder our ability to implement this strategy include: • reduction in the number of suitable acquisition targets due to increased competition for acquisitions; • we may lose key employees of acquired companies or stations; • difficulty in integrating operations and systems and managing a diverse media business; • inability to find buyers for media properties we target for sale at attractive prices due to decreasing market prices for radio stations or the inability to obtain credit in the current economic environment; • failure or delays in completing acquisitions or divestitures due to difficulties in obtaining required regulatory approval, including possible difficulties by the seller or buyer in obtaining antitrust approval for acquisitions in markets where we already own multiple stations or establishing compliance with broadcast ownership rules; • failure of some acquisitions to prove profitable or generate sufficient cash flow; and • inability to finance acquisitions on acceptable terms, through incurring debt or issuing stock. We can provide no assurance that our diversification strategy will be successful. If we are not successful in achieving our diversification objectives, our business, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. 12 Reach Media noncontrolling interest shareholders’ put rights may have an impact upon our business and indebtedness. On February 28, 2012, and for a 30 day period thereafter, the noncontrolling interest shareholders of Reach Media have the right to require Reach Media to purchase all or a portion of their shares at the then current fair market value for such shares. The purchase price for such shares may be paid in cash and/or registered Class D Common Stock of Radio One, at the discretion of Radio One. As a result, our ability to fund business operations, new acquisitions or new business initiatives could be limited. We must respond to the rapid changes in technology, services and standards, in order to remain competitive. Technological standards across our media properties are evolving and new media technologies are emerging. We cannot assure you that we will have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services to compete with these new technologies. Several new media technologies are being, or have been, developed, including the following: • satellite delivered digital audio radio service, which has resulted in the introduction of several new satellite radio services with sound quality equivalent to that of compact discs; • audio programming by cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, internet content providers and other digital audio broadcast formats; and • digital audio and video content available for listening and/or viewing on the internet and/or available for downloading to portable devices (including audio via Wi-Fi, mobile phones, smart phones, netbooks and similar portable devices, WiMAX, the Internet and MP3 players). New media has resulted in fragmentation in the advertising market, and we cannot predict the effect, if any, that additional competition arising from new technologies may have on the radio broadcasting industry, our multi-media business or on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt successfully to these new media technologies. The loss of key personnel, including on-air talent, could disrupt the management and operations of our business. Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers and other key employees, including on-air personalities. We believe that the combination of skills and experience possessed by our executive officers could be difficult to replace, and that the loss of one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on us, including the impairment of our ability to execute our business strategy. In addition, several of our on-air personalities and syndicated radio programs hosts have large loyal audiences in their respective broadcast areas and may be significantly responsible for the ranking of a station. The loss of such on-air personalities could impact the ability of the station to sell advertising and our ability to derive revenue from syndicating programs hosted by them. We cann ot be assured that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current audiences or ratings. As a part of our diversification strategy, we have placed emphasis on building our internet businesses. Failure to fulfill this undertaking may adversely affect our brands and business prospects. Our diversification strategy depends to a significant degree upon the development of our internet businesses. In order for our internet businesses to grow and succeed over the long-term, we must, among other things: • significantly increase our online traffic and revenue; • attract and retain a base of frequent visitors to our web sites; • expand the content, products and tools we offer on our web sites; • respond to competitive developments while maintaining a distinct identity across each of our online brands; • attract and retain talent for critical positions; • maintain and form relationships with strategic partners to attract more consumers; • continue to develop and upgrade our technologies; and • bring new product features to market in a timely manner. We cannot assure that we will be successful in achieving these and other necessary objectives. If we are not successful in achieving these objectives, our business, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. If our interactive unit does not continue to develop and offer compelling and differentiated content, products and services, our advertising revenues could be adversely affected. In order to attract internet consumers and generate increased activity on our internet properties, we believe that we must offer compelling and differentiated content, products and services. However, acquiring, developing and offering such content, products and services may require significant costs and time to develop, while consumer tastes may be difficult to predict and are subject to rapid change. If we are unable to provide content, products and services that are sufficiently attractive to our internet users, we may not be able to generate the increases in activity necessary to generate increased advertising revenues. In addition, although we have access to certain content provided by the Company’s other businesses, we may be required to make substantial payments to license such content. Many of our content arran gements with third parties are non-exclusive, so competitors may be able to offer similar or identical content. If we are not able to acquire or develop compelling content and do so at reasonable prices, or if other companies offer content that is similar to that provided by our interactive unit, we may not be able to attract and increase the engagement of internet consumers on our internet properties. Continued growth in our internet advertising business also depends on our ability to continue offering a competitive and distinctive range of advertising products and services for advertisers and publishers and our ability to maintain or increase prices for our advertising products and services. Continuing to develop and improve these products and services may require significant time and costs. If we cannot continue to develop and improve its advertising products and services or if prices for its advertising products and services decrease, our internet advertising revenues could be adversely affected. More individuals are using devices other than personal and laptop computers to access and use the internet, and if we cannot make our products and services available and attractive to consumers via these alternative devices, our internet advertising revenues could be adversely affected. Internet users are increasingly accessing and using the internet through devices other than a personal or laptop computer, such as personal digital assistants or mobile telephones, which differ from computers with respect to memory, functionality, resolution and screen size. In order for consumers to access and use our products and services via these alternative devices, we must ensure that our products and services are technologically compatible with such devices. We also must secure arrangements with device manufacturers and wireless carriers in order to have placement and functionality on the alternative devices and to more effectively reach consumers. If we cannot effectively make our products and services available on alternative devices, fewer internet consumers may access and use our products and services and our advertising re venue may be negatively affected. 13 Risks Related to Regulation Our business depends on maintaining our licenses with the FCC. We could be prevented from operating a radio station if we fail to maintain its license. We are required to maintain radio broadcasting licenses issued by the FCC. These licenses are ordinarily issued for a maximum term of eight years and are renewable. Our radio broadcasting licenses expire at various times through August 1, 2014. Interested third-parties may challenge our renewal applications. In addition, we are subject to extensive and changing regulation by the FCC with respect to such matters as programming, indecency standards, technical operations, employment and business practices. If we or any of our significant stockholders, officers, or directors violate the FCC’s rules and regulations or the Communications Act, or is convicted of a felony, the FCC may commence a proceeding to impose fines or sanctions upon us. Examples of possible sanctions include the imposition of fines, the renewal of one or mor e of our broadcasting licenses for a term of fewer than eight years or the revocation of our broadcast licenses. If the FCC were to issue an order denying a license renewal application or revoking a license, we would be required to cease operating the radio station covered by the license only after we had exhausted administrative and judicial review without success. There is significant uncertainty regarding the FCC’s media ownership rules, and such rules could restrict our ability to acquire radio stations. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies limit the number of broadcasting properties that any person or entity may own (directly or by attribution) in any market and require FCC approval for transfers of control and assignments of licenses. The FCC’s media ownership rules remain in flux and subject to further agency and court proceedings. (See “Business — Federal Regulation of Radio Broadcasting”.) In addition to the FCC media ownership rules, the outside media interests of our officers and directors could limit our ability to acquire stations. The filing of petitions or complaints against Radio One or any FCC licensee from which we are acquiring a station could result in the FCC delaying the grant of, or refusing to grant or imposing conditions on its consent to the assignment or transfer of control of licenses. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies also impose limitations on non-U.S. ownership and voting of our capital stock. Increased enforcement by the FCC of its indecency rules against the broadcast industry. In 2004, the FCC indicated that it was enhancing its enforcement efforts relating to the regulation of indecency. Congress has increased the penalties for broadcasting indecent programming and potentially subject broadcasters to license revocation, renewal or qualification proceedings in the event that they broadcast indecent material. In addition, the FCC’s heightened focus on the indecency regulatory scheme, against the broadcast industry generally, may encourage third parties to oppose our license renewal applications or applications for consent to acquire broadcast stations. The change in administration at the federal level could foster a change in the FCC’s enforcement posture. Changes in current federal regulations could adversely affect our business operations. Congress and the FCC have considered, and may in the future consider and adopt, new laws, regulations and policies that could, directly or indirectly, affect the profitability of our broadcast stations. In particular, Congress is considering a revocation of radio’s exemption from paying royalties to performing artists for use of their recordings (radio already pays a royalty to songwriters, composers and publishers). A requirement to pay additional royalties could have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. Future asset impairment to the carrying values of our FCC licenses and goodwill could adversely impact our results of operations and net worth. FCC licenses and goodwill totaled approximately $836.2 million or 80.7% of total assets at December 31, 2009, and is primarily attributable to accounting for acquisitions in past years. We are required by Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 350, “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other,” to test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually, which we have traditionally done in the fourth quarter. Impairment is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset over its fair value. Impairment may result from deterioration in our performance, changes in anticipated future cash flows, changes in business plans, adverse economic or market conditions, adverse change s in applicable laws and regulations, or other factors. The amount of any impairment must be expensed as a charge to operations. Fair values of FCC licenses and goodwill have been estimated using the income approach, which involves a 10-year model that incorporates several judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and terminal values. There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analysis. Changes in certain events or circumstances could result in changes to our estimated fair values, and may result in further write-downs to the carrying values of these assets. Additional impairment charges could adversely affect our financial results, financial ratios and could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future. We have incurred net losses over the past three years. We have reported net losses in our consolidated statements of operations over the past three years, due mostly in part to recording non-cash impairment charges for write-downs to radio broadcasting licenses and goodwill, net losses incurred for discontinued operations and revenue declines caused by weakened advertising demand resulting from the current economic crisis. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we experienced net losses of approximately $52.9 million, $302.9 million, and $391.5 million, respectively. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition and could be exacerbated given the current economic climate. If these trends continue in the future, it could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. New or changing federal, state or international privacy legislation or regulation could hinder the growth of our internet business. A variety of federal and state laws govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data that our internet business uses to operate its services and to deliver certain advertisements to its customers, as well as the technologies used to collect such data. Not only are existing privacy-related laws in these jurisdictions evolving and subject to potentially disparate interpretation by governmental entities, new legislative proposals affecting privacy are now pending at both the federal and state level in the U.S. Changes to the interpretation of existing law or the adoption of new privacy-related requirements could hinder the growth of our internet business. Also, a failure or perceived failure to comply with such laws or requirements or with our own policies and procedures could result in significant liabil ities, including a possible loss of consumer or investor confidence or a loss of customers or advertisers. Our operation of various real properties and facilities could lead to environmental liability. As the owner, lessee or operator of various real properties and facilities, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Historically, compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance, however, that compliance with existing or new environmental laws and regulations will not require us to make significant expenditures of funds. We could incur adverse effects from our voluntary review of stock option grants and resulting financial restatements. As described in the Explanatory Note and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements filed with our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded additional stock-based compensation expense and related tax effects with regard to certain past stock option grants, and restated certain previously filed financial statements included in that Form 10-K. In February 2007, we received a letter of informal inquiry from the SEC regarding the review of our stock option accounting. While we have not heard further from the SEC on this matter to date, should the SEC further inquire, we would fully cooperate with the SEC’s inquiry. We are unable to predict whether a formal inquiry will be initiated or what consequences any further inquiry may have on us. We are unable to predict the likelihood of or potential outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock option practices. The resolution of these matters could be time-consuming and expensive, further distract management from other business concerns and harm our business. Furthermore, if we were subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business and financial condition. While we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our historical stock option grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk we may have to further restate prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. 14 Risks Related to Our Common Stock The public market for our Class A and Class D Common Stock may be volatile. We cannot assure you that the market price of our Class A and Class D Common Stock will not be volatile, and the market price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to such factors as: • conditions and trends in the general United States economy and radio broadcasting and advertising industries; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, including audience share ratings and financial results; • changes in financial estimates or other commentary by securities analysts or market commentators; • technological innovations; • competitive developments; • adoption of new accounting standards affecting companies in general or affecting companies in the radio broadcasting industry in particular; and • general market conditions and other factors. Further, the stock markets, and in particular the NASDAQ Stock Market, on which our Class A and Class D Common Stock are listed, from time to time have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that were not necessarily related or proportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. In addition, general economic, political and market conditions may adversely affect the market price of our Class A and Class D Common Stock. Two common stockholders have a majority voting interest in Radio One and have the power to control matters on which our common stockholders may vote, and their interests may conflict with yours. As of March 19, 2010, our Chairperson and her son, our President and CEO, collectively held approximately 92% of the outstanding voting power of our common stock. As a result, our Chairperson and the CEO will control our management and policies and most decisions involving or impacting upon Radio One, including transactions involving a change of control, such as a sale or merger. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. In addition, certain covenants in our debt instruments require that our Chairperson and the CEO maintain a specified ownership and voting interest in Radio One, and prohibit other parties’ voting interests from exceeding specified amounts. In addition, the TV One operating agreement provides for adverse consequences to Radio One in the even t our Chairperson and CEO fail to maintain a specified ownership and voting interest in us. Our Chairperson and the CEO have agreed to vote their shares together in elections of members to the board of directors. Further, we are a “controlled company” under rules governing the listing of our securities on the NASDAQ Stock Market because more than 50% of our voting power is held by our Chairperson and the CEO. Therefore, we are not subject to NASDAQ Stock Market listing rules that would otherwise require us to have (i) a majority of independent directors on the board; (ii) a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; (iii) a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors; (iv) compensation of our executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; and (v) director nominees selected, or recommended for the board’s selection, either by a majority of the independent d irectors or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial level of debt could limit our ability to grow and compete. As of March 31, 2010, we had indebtedness of approximately $653.5 million. In June 2005, the Company entered into a credit agreement with a syndicate of banks (the “Credit Agreement”). We borrowed $437.5 million under our credit facility to retire all outstanding obligations under our previous credit facilities. Draw downs of revolving loans under the credit facility are subject to compliance with provisions of our credit agreement, including, but not limited to, certain financial covenants. As of December 31, 2009, we are permitted to borrow up to an additional $5.0 million under our current credit facility. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” A portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates. Increases in in terest rates could increase the cost of our credit facilities. We have entered into various interest rate hedges to reduce our overall exposure to variable interest rates, consistent with the Credit Agreement that requires at least 50% of our debt obligations be fixed rate in nature. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect us for various reasons, including limiting our ability to: • obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt payments or other corporate purposes; • have sufficient funds available for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes, after paying debt service; • compete with competitors that have less debt; and • react to changing market conditions, changes in our industry and economic downturns. The remaining outstanding amounts of our 87/8% Senior Subordinated Notes are due in July 2011 and amounts under our Credit Agreement are due the earlier of (a) six months prior to the scheduled maturity date of the 87/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due July 1, 2011 (January 1, 2011) (unless the 87/8% Senior Subordinated Notes have been repurchased or refinanced prior to such date) or (b) June 30, 2012. We are currently evaluating a number of alternatives with respect to these upcoming maturities and other strategic initiatives that we may undertake in the future. These alternatives include entering into one or more amendments to our credit facilities, refinancing transactions, retiring or purchasing our outstanding indebtedness through cash purchases, prepayments and/or exchanges for newly issued debt or equity securities or obligations, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Our ability to consummate such amendments, refinancings, repurchases, prepayments or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors, some of which may be beyond our control. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Company will successfully enter into any definitive agreements for such alternatives. 15 The credit agreement governing our credit facility imposes significant restrictions on us. Borrowings under the credit facilities are subject to compliance with certain provisions including but not limited to financial covenants. The Company may use proceeds from the credit facilities for working capital, capital expenditures made in the ordinary course of business, its common stock repurchase program, permitted direct and indirect investments and other lawful corporate purposes. The Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants that the Company must comply with, including: (a) maintaining an interest coverage ratio of no less than: § 1.90 to 1.00 from January 1, 2006 to September 13, 2007; § 1.60 to 1.00 from September 14, 2007 to June 30, 2008; § 1.75 to 1.00 from July 1, 2008 to December 31, 2009; § 2.00 to 1.00 from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010; and § 2.25 to 1.00 from January 1, 2011 and thereafter. (b) maintaining a total leverage ratio of no greater than: § 7.00 to 1.00 beginning April 1, 2006 to September 13, 2007; § 7.75 to 1.00 beginning September 14, 2007 to March 31, 2008; § 7.50 to 1.00 beginning April 1, 2008 to September 30, 2008; § 7.25 to 1.00 beginning October 1, 2008 to June 30, 2010; § 6.50 to 1.00 beginning July 1, 2010 to September 30, 2011; and § 6.00 to 1.00 beginning October 1, 2011 and thereafter. (c) maintaining a senior leverage ratio of no greater than: § 5.00 to 1.00 beginning June 13, 2005 to September 30, 2006; § 4.50 to 1.00 beginning October 1, 2006 to September 30, 2007; and § 4.00 to 1.00 beginning October 1, 2007 and thereafter; and (d) limitations on: § liens; § sale of assets; § payment of dividends; and § mergers. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, upon any breach or default under either the 87/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due July 2011 or the 63/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due February 2013, the lenders could among other actions immediately terminate the Credit Agreement and declare the loans then outstanding under the Credit Agreement to be due and payable in whole immediately. Similarly, under the 87/8% Senior Subordinated Notes and the 63/8% Senior Subordinated Notes, a default under the terms of the Credit Agreement would constitute an event of default, and the trustees or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding notes (under either class) may declare the principal of such class of note and interest to be due and payable immediately. Our corporate debt rating was recently downgraded and we could suffer further downgrades. On a continuing basis, credit rating agencies such as Moody’s Investor Services (“Moody’s”) and Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) evaluate our debt. On June 24, 2009, S&P lowered our corporate credit rating to CCC+ from B- and the issue-level rating on our $800.0 million secured credit facility to CCC+ from B-. On March 3, 2009, S&P lowered our corporate credit rating to B- from B and the issue-level rating on our $800.0 million secured credit facility to B- from BB-. While noting that our rating outlook was negative, the ratings downgrade reflects concern over the Company’s ability to maintain compliance with financial covenants due to weak radio advertising demand. On May 12, 2009, Moody’s downgraded our corporate family rating to Caa1 from B1. On November 3, 2008, Moody’s placed on review the Company and its debt for a possible downgrade. The review was prompted by heightened concerns that the radio broadcast sector will likely face significant revenue and cash flow deterioration given weakness in the U.S. economy. On September 10, 2008, Moody’s downgraded our corporate family rating to B2 from B1 and our $800.0 million secured credit facility ($500.0 million revolver, $300.0 million term loan) to Ba3 from Ba2. In addition, Moody’s downgraded our 87/8% Senior Subordinated Notes and 63/8% Senior Subordinated Notes to Caa1 from B3. While noting that our rating outlook was stable, the ratings downgrade reflected the Company’s operating performance, weaker than previously expected credit metrics and limited borrowing capacity under financial covenants. Although reductions in our bond ratings may not have an immediate impact on our cost of debt or liquidity, they may impact our future cost of debt and liquidity. Increased debt levels and/or decreased earnings could result in further downgrades in our credit ratings, which, in turn, could impede our access to the debt markets and/or raise our long-term debt borrowing rates. Our ability to use debt to fund major new acquisitions or new business initiatives could also be limited. The foregoing list is not exhaustive. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact our business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, our debt agreements contain covenants that may limit our ability to borrow additional money, purchase or sell assets, incur liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, consolidations or mergers, and other restrictive covenants that may limit our operational flexibility. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 