Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before purchasing our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS The dialysis provider market is highly concentrated in national and regional dialysis chains that account for the majority of our domestic revenue. Our business is substantially dependent on a few customers that account for a substantial portion of our sales. The loss of any of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. Our revenue is highly concentrated in a few customers and the loss of any of those customers could adversely affect our results. One customer in particular accounted for 49% of our sales in 2012 and has accounted for 42% to 51% of our revenues during each of the last five years. If we were to lose this customer or our relationship with any of our other major national and regional dialysis chain customers, it would have a substantial negative impact on our cash flow and operating results and could have a detrimental impact on our ability to continue our operations in their current form or to continue to execute our business strategy. If we lost a substantial portion of our business, we would be required to take actions to conserve our cash resources and to mitigate the impact of any such losses on our business operations. We operate in a very competitive market against a substantially larger competitor with greater resources. There is intense competition in the hemodialysis product market and our primary competitor is a large diversified company which has substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, research and development and management resources than we do. We may not be able to successfully compete with them or other companies. Our primary competitor has historically used product bundling and low pricing as marketing techniques to capture market share of the products we sell and as we do not manufacture or sell the same breadth of products as our primary competitor, we may be at a disadvantage in competing against their marketing strategies. Furthermore, our primary competitor is vertically integrated and is the largest provider of dialysis services in the United States with approximately one-third of all U.S. patients treated by this company through its clinics. This competitor has routinely acquired smaller clinic chain operations and may acquire some of our current customers in the future. 15 Our lead drug candidate requires FDA approval and expensive clinical trials before it can be marketed. We are seeking FDA approval for SFP, a drug used in the treatment of anemia in hemodialysis patients. Obtaining FDA approval for any drug is expensive and can take a long time. We may not be successful in obtaining FDA approval for SFP. The FDA may change, expand or alter its requirements for testing, which may increase the scope, duration and cost of our clinical development plan. Clinical trials are expensive and time consuming to complete, and we may not have sufficient funds to complete the clinical trials to obtain marketing approval. Our clinical trials might not prove successful. Positive results in early clinical trials of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage development. We cannot assure you that the Phase 3 clinical trials will achieve positive results. We are conducting two clinical trials related to SFP that we call CRUISE-1 and CRUISE-2. The results of CRUISE-1 and CRUISE-2 are expected to be announced in the second half of 2013. In addition, the FDA may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time. Many products that undergo clinical trials are never approved for patient use. Thus, it is possible that our new proprietary products may never be approved to be marketed. If we are unable to obtain marketing approval, our entire investment in new products may be worthless, our licensing rights could be forfeited and the price of our common stock could substantially decline. Even if our new drug products are approved by the FDA, we may not be able to market those successfully. Even if SFP is approved by the FDA, the commercial success of SFP will depend on a number of factors, including the following: •one drug currently dominates treatment for iron deficiency and SFP will have to compete against it and other existing products; •it may be difficult to gain market acceptance of a new product; •nephrologists, anemia managers and dialysis chains may be slow to change their clinical practice protocols for new products or may not change their protocols at all; •achieving and maintaining compliance with all regulatory requirements applicable to SFP; •the effectiveness of our marketing, sales and distribution strategies and operations for development and commercialization of SFP; •our ability to avoid third party patent interference or patent infringement claims; and •a continued acceptable safety profile of SFP following approval. Furthermore, dialysis providers are dependent upon government reimbursement practices for the majority of their revenue. If we obtain approval for our SFP product, the product will be included as part of the single bundled payment rate implemented by Medicare in 2011 and will likely not require a separate reimbursement code for providers to use SFP as nearly all providers are expected to have adopted the single bundled payment rate prior to FDA approval to market SFP. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will ever be able to generate revenues through the sale of SFP. If we are not successful in commercializing SFP, or are significantly delayed in doing so, our entire investment in new products may be worthless, our licensing rights could be forfeited and the price of our common stock could substantially decline. In addition, we are seeking FDA approval for a change in manufacturing location for a generic version of Calcitriol, which we acquired from a third party. While we anticipate timely approval of 16 these changes, we must meet certain regulatory requirements for product testing and stability. If we encounter testing that does not meet approvable standards or if we experience operational issues with our CMO, our introduction of Calcitriol could be delayed beyond our expectations. The market for generic drugs is generally very competitive. Even if the FDA approves our change in manufacturing location for Calcitriol so that we can begin marketing it, we may encounter a very competitive environment for Calcitriol which may make it difficult for us to capture significant market share. If we do have success in capturing market share with Calcitriol, it may attract other entrants to market their own generic version of Calcitriol, which could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and results of operations. There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited consolidated financial statements at and for the year ended December 31, 2012 were prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern, meaning that we will continue in operation for the foreseeable future and will be able to realize assets and discharge liabilities in the ordinary course of operations. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 contains an explanatory paragraph stating that our recurring losses and need for additional working capital raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We incurred a net loss in each of the last several years and, as of December 31, 2012, our accumulated deficit was $110 million. As of December 31, 2012, our cash and investments were $4.7 million and our current liabilities exceeded our current assets by $13.8 million. Our losses have resulted principally from expenses incurred in research and development of our technology and products and we expect to continue to incur operating losses as we complete the clinical trial process and pursue regulatory approval of SFP, thereby creating substantial doubt in the absence of significant additional funding about our ability to continue as a going concern. This may make it more difficult for us to raise funds. If we are unable to obtain the level of funding we are seeking, we may be forced to delay, reduce, curtail, or cease our research and development efforts or our business operations as a whole. In such event, investors may lose a portion or all of their investment. Our consolidated financial statements contain no adjustment for the outcome of this uncertainty. Our ability to achieve profitability and positive cash flow from operations depends on our ability to raise additional capital, complete development of our products, obtain regulatory approvals and market our products. It is uncertain when, if ever, we will become profitable. We require substantial additional financing to achieve our goals, and such financing may result in substantial dilution to shareholders or restrictions on our ability to operate our business. A failure to obtain this necessary capital when needed could force us to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or commercialization efforts. Over the last several years, we have dedicated a significant portion of our resources to the preclinical and clinical development of SFP. In particular, we are currently conducting a Phase 3 clinical program for SFP, which will require substantial funds to complete. We believe that we will continue to expend substantial resources for the foreseeable future developing SFP. These expenditures will include costs associated with research and development, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing products, as well as marketing and selling any products approved for sale. In addition, other unanticipated costs may arise. Because the outcome of our planned and anticipated clinical trials is highly uncertain, we cannot reasonably estimate the actual amounts necessary to successfully complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We are seeking additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings or other sources, such as strategic partnerships. In addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, substantial dilution to 17 existing shareholders is likely to result. If we raise additional funds by incurring debt financing, the terms of the debt may involve significant cash payment obligations as well as covenants and specific financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate our business. Additional funds may not be available when we need them, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, we may not be able to continue our operations as a going concern or may be required to: •delay, limit, reduce or terminate preclinical studies, clinical trials or other development activities for one or more of our product candidates; •delay, limit, reduce or terminate our research and development activities; or •delay, limit, reduce or terminate our establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities that may be necessary to commercialize our product candidates. If we are unable to continue operations as a going concern, investors may lose a portion or all of their investment. We may not be successful in maintaining our gross profit margins. A significant portion of our costs are for chemicals and fuel which are subject to pricing volatility based on demand and are highly influenced by the overall level of economic activity in the U.S. and abroad. These costs have risen each year and have had a negative effect on our gross margins. We may realize future cost and pricing pressure which may cause our gross profit margins to decrease in the future and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our products are distribution-intensive, resulting in a high cost to deliver relative to the selling prices of our products. The cost of diesel fuel represents a significant operating cost for us. If oil costs increase or if oil prices spike upward, we may be unable to recover those increased costs through higher pricing. Also, as we increase our business in certain markets and regions, which are farther from our manufacturing facilities than we have historically served, we may incur additional costs that are greater than the additional revenue generated from these initiatives. Our customer mix may change to a less favorable customer base with lower gross profit margins. Our competitors have often used bundling techniques to sell a broad range of products and have often offered low prices on dialysis concentrate products to induce customers to purchase their other higher margin products, such as dialysis machines and dialyzers. It may be difficult for us to raise prices due to these competitive pressures. Our suppliers may increase their prices faster than we are able to raise our prices to offset such increases. We may have limited ability to gain a raw material pricing advantage by changing vendors for certain chemicals and packaging materials. As we increase our manufacturing and distribution infrastructure we may incur costs for an indefinite period that are greater than the incremental revenue we derive from these expansion efforts. We depend on government funding of health care. Many of our customers receive the majority of their funding from the government and are supplemented by payments from private health care insurers. Our customers depend on Medicare and Medicaid funding to be viable businesses. A variety of changes to health insurance and reimbursement are included in health reform legislation enacted by Congress in recent years. Some of these changes could have a negative impact on Medicare and Medicaid funding, which fund the majority of dialysis costs in the United States, and on reimbursement protocols. If Medicare and Medicaid funding were to be materially decreased, our customers would be severely impacted, increasing our risk of not being paid in full by our customers. An increase in our exposure to uncollectible accounts could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 18 In the United States, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 or "MIPPA" changed the dialysis reimbursement method from the prior practice of separately billed services and medications to a single bundled rate, which became effective on January 1, 2011. Most dialysis providers have adopted this method of reimbursement, which provides for a single payment per dialysis treatment compared to the current method consisting of a composite rate payment and separately billed drugs and services. This change in reimbursement practice was intended to reduce Medicare funding costs and to prompt dialysis providers to reduce their cost of dialysis services. This change increases the burden on dialysis treatment providers to effectively manage their cost of treatment and operations and may put more pressure on suppliers such as us to reduce providers' costs. As a result, we may see increased pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which would have a negative impact on our revenue and gross profit margins. We anticipate that dialysis providers will continue to seek ways to reduce their costs per treatment due to this change in reimbursement practice which could reduce our sales and profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of these changes to Medicare reimbursement, industry observers also anticipate increased consolidation in the dialysis provider market which has been largely unchecked by the Federal Trade Commission to date. Continued consolidation in providers will likely result in increased purchasing leverage for providers across all dialysis product categories and increased pricing pressure on all suppliers to the industry. Health care reform could adversely affect our business. The federal and state governments in the United States, as well as many foreign governments, from time to time explore ways to reduce medical care costs through health care reform. The federal Medicare and Medicaid programs are facing financial challenges and are looking at ways to reduce the costs of the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Similarly, many states have large deficits which may prove unsustainable, resulting in defaults on state debt obligations which may ultimately result in the reduction or curtailment of health care benefits or state Medicaid reimbursement. In the United States, Congress enacted health reform legislation in 2010 that will make significant changes to the health care payment and delivery system. The health reform legislation requires employers to provide employees with insurance coverage that meets minimum eligibility and coverage requirements or face penalties. The legislation also includes provisions that will impact the number of individuals with insurance coverage, the types of coverage and level of health benefits that will be required and the amount of payment providers performing health care services will receive. The legislation imposes implementation effective dates beginning in 2010 and extending through 2020. Many of the changes require additional guidance from government agencies or federal regulations. In addition, the health reform legislation imposes fees or excise taxes on pharmaceutical and device manufacturers based on their sales which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial results beginning in 2013. The U.S. government faces structural deficits that may require changes to government funded health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid which may negatively impact customers of our products. Our sales, results of operations and cash flows could be materially impacted by future health care reform or reduced Medicare and Medicaid spending by the federal government. Beginning in 2013, the legislation imposes requirements on device manufacturers to report annually to the FDA regarding certain financial relationships they have with physicians and hospitals. This reporting requirement will increase governmental scrutiny on our contractual relationships with physicians and hospitals and will increase the risk of inadvertent violations resulting in liability under the federal fraud and abuse laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 19 We depend on key personnel. Our success depends heavily on the efforts of Robert L. Chioini, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Ajay Gupta MD, our Chief Scientific Officer, Dr. Raymond D. Pratt, our Chief Medical Officer and Thomas E. Klema, our Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer. Mr. Chioini is primarily responsible for managing our sales and marketing efforts. Dr. Gupta is primarily responsible for discovery and development of new technologies. Dr. Pratt is primarily responsible for the clinical development, testing and regulatory approval of our products. None of our executive management are parties to a current employment agreement with the Company. If we lose the services of Mr. Chioini, Dr. Gupta, Dr. Pratt or Mr. Klema, our business, product development efforts, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is highly regulated. The testing, manufacture and sale of the products we manufacture and distribute are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and by other federal, state and foreign authorities. Before medical devices can be commercially marketed in the United States, the FDA must give either 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval for the devices. If we do not comply with these requirements, we may be subject to a variety of sanctions, including fines, injunctions, seizure of products, suspension of production, denial of future regulatory approvals, withdrawal of existing regulatory approvals and criminal prosecution. Our business could be adversely affected by any of these actions. Although our hemodialysis concentrates have been cleared by the FDA, it could rescind these clearances and any new products or modifications to our current products that we develop could fail to receive FDA clearance. If the FDA rescinds or denies any current or future clearances or approvals for our products, we would be prohibited from selling those products in the United States until we obtain such clearances or approvals. Our business would be adversely affected by any such prohibition, any delay in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals, and any limits placed by the FDA on our intended use. Our products are also subject to federal regulations regarding manufacturing quality. In addition, our new products will be subject to review and approval by the FDA. The process of obtaining such approval is time-consuming and expensive. In addition, changes in applicable regulatory requirements could significantly increase the costs of our operations and may reduce our profitability if we are unable to recover any such cost increases through higher prices. We depend on contract research organizations to manage and conduct our clinical trials and if they fail to follow our protocol or meet FDA regulatory requirements, our clinical trial data and results could be compromised, delaying our development plans or causing us to do more testing than planned. We utilize contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials in accordance with study specific protocols. We also contract with other third party service providers for clinical trial material production, packaging and labeling, lab testing, data management services as well as a number of other services. There can be no assurance that these organizations will fulfill their commitments to us on a timely basis or that the accuracy and quality of the clinical data they provide us will not be compromised by their failure to fulfill their obligations. If these service providers do not perform as contracted, our development plans could be adversely affected. Foreign approvals to market our new drug products may be difficult to obtain. The approval procedures for the marketing of our new drug products in foreign countries vary from country to country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. Even after foreign approvals are obtained, further delays may be encountered before products may be marketed. Many countries require additional governmental approval for price reimbursement under national health insurance systems. 20 Additional studies may be required to obtain foreign regulatory approval. Further, some foreign regulatory agencies may require additional studies involving patients located in their countries. We may not have sufficient products liability insurance. As a supplier of medical products, we may face potential liability from a person who claims that he or she suffered harm as a result of using our products. We maintain products liability insurance in the amount of $5 million per occurrence and $5 million in the aggregate. We cannot be sure that it will remain economical to retain our current level of insurance, that our current insurance will remain available or that such insurance would be sufficient to protect us against liabilities associated with our business. We may be sued, and we may have significant legal expenses that are not covered by insurance. In addition, our reputation could be damaged by product liability litigation and that could harm our marketing ability. Any litigation could also hurt our ability to retain products liability insurance or make such insurance more expensive. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by an uninsured or inadequately insured product liability claim in the future. Our Board of Directors is subject to potential deadlock. Our Board of Directors presently has four members, and under our bylaws, approval by a majority of the Directors is required for many significant corporate actions. It is possible that our Board of Directors may be unable to obtain majority approval in certain circumstances, which would prevent us from taking action. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Shares eligible for future sale may affect the market price of our common shares. Our future sales of common shares may have a negative effect on the market price of our common shares from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares (including shares issued upon the exercise of stock options or warrants), or the possibility of such sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and also impair our ability to raise capital through an offering of our equity securities in the future. As of December 31, 2012 an additional 2,133,240 shares may be issued upon exercise of outstanding warrants. An additional, 100,000 shares may be issued after December 31, 2013. In the future, we may issue additional shares or warrants in connection with investments or for other purposes considered advisable by our Board of Directors. Any substantial sale of our common shares may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and may dilute the economic value and voting rights of existing shareholders. In addition, as of December 31, 2012, there were 4,410,200 shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding and exercisable stock options, 1,579,000 shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options that are not yet exercisable and 1,284,665 additional shares available for grant under our 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan. Additional grants have been made in 2013. The market price of the common shares may be depressed by the potential exercise of these options. The holders of these options are likely to exercise them when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional capital on more favorable terms than those provided by the options. We could have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, which, until remedied, could result in errors in our financial statements requiring restatement of our financial statements. As a result, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. SEC rules require us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our 21 internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. It is possible, due to the small size of our accounting staff, that we may identify control deficiencies in the future that constitute one or more material weaknesses. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements and in our disclosure that could require restatements. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and in our disclosure, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. No system of internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. The market price of our securities may be volatile. Our relatively small public float and relatively low trading volume make it more likely that our stock price will fluctuate significantly in response to relatively few trades. We believe that we have been and may continue to be the target of third party short selling campaigns and other sophisticated trading strategies designed to reduce the market price of our common stock. Beginning in early 2013, the Company believes that certain stock trading firms have engaged in short selling programs to drive the share price of the Company's shares down with an expectation of covering those short positions by acquiring the Company's shares through or following an anticipated future common share offering. We have asked Nasdaq to initiate an investigation to determine if there was illegal trading activity in the Company's common shares. Such an investigation may not result in any definitive conclusions or in changes to the trading activity that has depressed the Company's share price. There is no guarantee that these trading strategies will not continue to have a negative impact on our share price and possibly limit our ability to raise sufficient capital to meet our financial needs. In addition, we are expecting results from our two pivotal SFP clinical trials in the second half of 2013. The announcement of the results of these trials could create significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. Voting control and anti-takeover provisions reduce the likelihood that you will receive a takeover premium. As of December 31, 2012, to our knowledge, our officers and directors beneficially owned approximately 25% of our voting shares (assuming the exercise of exercisable options granted to such officers and directors). Accordingly, they may be able to exert influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our Board of Directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Our shareholders do not have the right to cumulative voting in the election of directors. In addition, the Board of Directors has the authority, without shareholder approval, to issue shares of preferred stock having such rights, preferences and privileges as the Board of Directors may determine. Any such issuance of preferred stock could, under certain circumstances, have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may adversely affect the rights of holders of common shares, including by decreasing the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to holders of common shares and adversely affect the relative voting power or other rights of the holders of the common shares. In addition, we may become subject to Michigan statutes regulating business combinations which might also hinder or delay a change in control. Anti-takeover provisions that could 22 be included in the preferred stock when issued and the Michigan statutes regulating business combinations can have a depressive effect on the market price of our common shares and can limit shareholders' ability to receive a premium on their shares by discouraging takeover and tender offers. Our directors serve staggered three-year terms, and directors may not be removed without cause. Our Articles of Incorporation also set the minimum and maximum number of directors constituting the entire Board at three and fifteen, respectively, and require approval of holders of a majority of our voting shares to amend these provisions. These provisions could have an anti-takeover effect by making it more difficult to acquire us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, or to remove incumbent directors. These provisions could delay, deter or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in his or her best interests, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the common shares. We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Since inception, we have not paid any cash dividend on our common shares and do not anticipate paying such dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends upon our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and requirements, future prospects, restrictions in future financing agreements, business conditions and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. We intend to retain earnings and any cash resources to finance our operations and, therefore, it is highly unlikely we will pay cash dividends. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 