D. Risk factors The common shares of the Company must be considered to be a speculative investment due to a number of factors primarily related to the Company’s involvement in the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas, and its present stage of development. There can be no assurance that the Company’s shares will increase or even maintain their value. Prospective purchasers of the Company’s shares should consider the following: Exploration, Development and Production Risks The Company’s future oil and natural gas reserves, and production and cash flows to be derived therefrom, are highly dependent on the Company’s success in exploiting its current reserves base and acquiring or discovering additional reserves. Without the addition of reserves through exploration, acquisition or development activities, the Company’s reserves and production will decline over time as reserves are depleted. There is no assurance that the Company’s future exploration and development efforts will result in the discovery or development of additional commercial accumulations of oil and natural gas. There is also no assurance that the Company will be able to locate satisfactory properties for acquisition or participation. Moreover, if such acquisitions or participations are identified, the Company may determine that current markets, terms of acquisition and participation or pricing conditions make such acquisitions or participations uneconomic. Future oil and gas exploration may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Completion of a well does not assure a profit on the investment, or recovery of drilling, completion and operating costs. Geological conditions are variable and of limited predictability. Even if production is commenced from a well or field, production will inevitably decline over the course of time, reducing the operating profitability of the Company. The amounts attributed to properties in the Company’s financial statements represent acquisition and exploration expenditures only, and may well not reflect realizable value. Development of oil and gas production facilities is subject to risks which may adversely impact on the commercial viability of a project, as the realized revenues from the project may be less than anticipated, and the capital and operating costs may be greater than anticipated. The risks to revenue include the development wells not producing predicted rates of oil and gas production, decreases in the market prices of oil and gas, and increased processing, storage and transportation costs. Operating Hazards and Environmental Liabilities All phases of the oil and natural gas business present environmental risks and hazards and are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of local and international conventions, laws and regulations, as set out in more detail in Item 4.D – Property, Plants and Equipment under the heading “Environmental Risks & Hazards”. Drilling hazards or environmental damage can greatly increase the cost of operations, and various field operating conditions may adversely affect the production from successful wells. These conditions include, but are not limited to, delays in obtaining governmental approvals or consents, shut-ins of connected wells resulting from extreme weather conditions, encountering unexpected formations or pressures, premature decline of or invasion of water into reservoirs, blow-outs, cratering, sour gas releases, fires and spills, insufficient storage or transportation capacity, or other geological, infrastructure and mechanical conditions. - 9 - While close well supervision and effective maintenance operations can contribute to maximizing production rates and recoveries over time, and cash flow and revenue forecasts attempt to realistically estimate production declines, production declines from normal field operating conditions cannot be eliminated and can be expected to adversely affect the long term continuity of revenue and cash flow levels to varying degrees. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner expected to result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. No assurance can be given that environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or a material increase in the costs of production, development or exploration activities or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Management is not aware of any present material liability related to environmental matters. However, the Company may, in the future, be subject to liability for environmental offences of which it is presently unaware. Carbon Emissions Regime The New Zealand government is a signatory to the Kyoto protocol and in order to meet the requirements of this protocol it is in the process of implementingClimate Change initiatives. A proposed bill is now before the NZ Parliament and under going the consultation process to introducea cap and tradeemissions trading scheme.Austral, along with other members of the oil and gas exploration and production community is involved in the government consultation process. Austral is also assessing the potential effect on its business of the proposed government initiatives. More detail on the likely risks to the Company’s business and the Company’s assessment and strategies in relation thereto, are set out in Item 4.D – Property, Plants and Equipment under the heading “Carbon Emissions Regime”. Oil and Natural Gas Markets The operations and earnings of the Company are affected by local, regional and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for oil and natural gas. These events or conditions are generally not predictable and include, among other things, the development of new supply sources, supply disruptions, weather, international political events, technological advances, restricted access to infrastructure (pipelines, storage, shipping or load-out facilities, etc) and the competitiveness of alternative energy sources or product substitutes. Both oil and natural gas prices are subject to fluctuation. The economics of producing from some wells may change as a result of lower prices. Management might also elect not to produce from certain wells at lower prices, thereby reducing the volumes produced by the Company. These factors could result in a material decrease in the Company’s net production revenue, which in turn may cause a reduction in its oil and gas acquisition and development activities. Management has established a policy to partially hedge the effect of fluctuating oil and natural gas prices, in order to fix the price that the Company will receive on a portion of its production for a specified period of time. Competitive Conditions The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. The Company actively competes for prospect acquisitions, exploration permits and licences, drilling equipment and services, access to production infrastructure, and employment of skilled industry personnel, and for capital to finance such activities, with a substantial number of other oil and gas companies, many of which have significantly greater financial and personnel resources than the Company. The Company’s competitors include major integrated oil and natural gas companies and numerous other independent oil and natural gas companies and individual producers and operators. Certain of the Company’s customers and potential customers are themselves exploring for oil and natural gas, and the results of such exploration efforts could affect the Company’s ability to sell or supply oil or gas to these customers in the future. The Company’s ability to successfully bid on and acquire additional property rights, to discover reserves, to participate in drilling opportunities and to identify and enter into commercial arrangements with customers will be dependent upon developing and maintaining close working relationships with industry participants and joint venture parties and its ability to select and evaluate suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. - 10 - Uncertainty of Reserves Figures Actual production expenditures, revenues and reserves will likely vary from those estimated, and these variances may be material. Estimates of oil and gas reserves are interpreted from geological, petrophysical and reservoir engineering data. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations that cannot be measured precisely, and the accuracy of any estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Such interpretations are inherently uncertain, as are the projections of future rates of production and timing and level of development expenditures. Factors such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, assumed effects of governmental regulations, assumptions of future oil and gas prices, future operating costs, development costs and remedial and work-over costs, will affect the estimates of economically recoverable quantities and of future net cash flow. Any significant variance in the assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of reserves. The Company’s reserves are evaluated by an independent reservoir engineering firm each year. Funding Requirements Oil exploration involves a high degree of technical and commercial risk and is characterized by a continuous need for fresh capital. Management seeks to minimise and spread this risk by entering into joint ventures for oil exploration projects with other companies, and by participating in properties exhibiting a range of risk profiles, thereby reducing its cost exposure to any one project. The development of any reserves found on the Company’s exploration properties may depend upon the Company’s ability to obtain further financing through farming-out part of its interest in a particular project, debt financing or equity financing. There is no assurance that market conditions will continue to permit the Company to raise funds if required, or that the Company will be able to enter into agreements with third parties to fund permit obligations or be able to renegotiate such obligations with the relevant government agency. The Company faces competition from other oil companies for oil and gas properties, and investor dollars. If the Company’s cash flow from operations is not sufficient to satisfy its capital expenditure requirements and existing debt obligations, there can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available to meet these requirements. If the Company is unable to fund its permit obligations by additional debt or equity financing, or by farm-out agreements or renegotiating such obligations, the Company may be unable to carry out its plan of operations and may be forced to abandon or forfeit some of its permit interests, or reduce or terminate its operations. Sources of Liquidity and Ability to Continue as a Going Concern For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company had a net loss of $22,030,249 and accumulated deficit of $63,118,912. The Company also had a working capital deficit of $29,982,748 and a shareholders’ deficit of $3,290,102 as at December 31, 2007. In addition the Company has also been unable to generate net cash from operating activities for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2007. For the five months ending May 31, 2008, the Company had a net loss of $8,212,599 and accumulated deficit of $71,331,511. The Company also had a working capital deficit of $20,625,713 and a shareholders’ equity of $4,361,755 as at May 31, 2008. The Company’s cash balances and working capital are not sufficient to fund all of its obligations with respect to its ongoing work program requirements related to the exploration permits (see Item 5B “Material Commitments for Capital Expenditure). In addition, the Company is in breach of several covenants relating to its Investec Bank (Australia) Ltd (“Investec”) loan facility, following delays in completing the project in accordance with established timelines. Accordingly, the loan facility and hedging arrangements have been disclosed as current liabilities in Item 17 – 2007 Consolidated Financial Statements. The factors raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of time. Management’s plans for securing sufficient sources of liquidity include the following: • Issuance of additional common shares in a private placement in order to raise $15,000,000. As further described in Item 17, Note 25(c) of the 2007 Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company completed this private placement on February 28, 2008; • Sale of its interests in Stanley (PRL 4) and in PRL 5 to a subsidiary of Horizon Oil Limited (ASX: HZN) for $3.5 million, which transaction completed on May 30, 2008, although legal transfer of the licences remains subject to receipt of governmental approval; • Sale of its interests in Douglas (PPL 235) and in PPL 261 to a subsidiary of Rift Oil plc (AIM: RIFT) for $5 - 11 - million, initial completion of such transaction occurring on May 29, 2008, with further payments due within 3 months, and within 12 months or earlier upon receipt of governmental approval of the legal transfers of the licences; • Farm-out of an 80% interest in PEP 38524 to Australian Worldwide Exploration Ltd. (ASX: AWE) with effect from May 20, 2008. In return, AWE has undertaken to fully fund acquisition of some 350km of 2D seismic within the permit. The farm-out is subject to approval of a revised work programme by the Ministry of Economic Development • Rectifying the covenant breaches relating to its loan facility with Investec. A key to rectifying the breach is the drilling of at least two further wells to satisfy the ‘completion test’ under the facility. The ‘completion test’ requires certain proven and probable reserves and associated production rates to be achieved, together with certain related forward looking financial ratios. The Cheal A6 well spudded on June 10, 2008, with Cheal A7 well due to commence approximately July 3, 2008 • A mix of further capital raising and/or sales of joint venture interests. The cash flow forecast prepared by management leads it to conclude that the Company can continue to meet its ongoing obligations beyond its 2008 fiscal year. This forecast assumes the Company’s on-going production is sustained; its two well Cheal drilling programme is successful as to reserves and production rates; sustained oil prices at or about $90 per barrel; normal expenditure; a mix of further capital raising and/or asset sales, and the Investec loan facility being restructured with full repayment by year end from revenue generation and further equity injection. The Company and Investec have agreed, in the interim, to restructure the facility, with the key financial terms requiring a principal payment of US$4.2 million on March 31, 2008 (reflecting the scheduled US$2.2 million due; and the further US$2 million paid from the restricted cash held in respect of the loan facility and applied in inverse order of maturity), since paid. In addition, a further US$3.5 million was to be paid on completion of the announced sale of the PNG Stanley (PRL 4) and PRL 5 assets (to be applied as $2.05 million against the June 30 scheduled principal due; and the balance of US$1.45 million applied in inverse order of maturity), since paid on May 30, 2008. The crude oil forward sales contracts were closed out on May 27, 2008 funded by a short term loan of $17,847,000 from Investec (repayable on December 15, 2008). It has been further agreed with Investec that any cash in excess of operating requirements will be used to reduce principal outstanding. The interest rate margin has been increased by an additional 2% on the total principal outstanding for the period January 31 to December 15, 2008 inclusive. In addition, the Company issued to Investec 1,056,338 shares to the value of US$750,000 (based on the Austral share price at March 19, 2008), on May 23, 2008. There are several commercial and administrative conditions which must also be complied with. The risk to the Company of not meeting the restructuring plan is that Investec could call for the loan to be repaid immediately and potentially being unable to continue as a going concern. Currency Fluctuations and Foreign Exchange The Company’s practice is to raise its equity in United States dollars. However, when the Company listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange, equity was also raised in New Zealand dollars. The Company holds cash denominated in both United States and New Zealand currency. The Company has established a policy to hedge its exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk. See discussion at Item 5.A under the heading “Foreign Currency Fluctuations”. Insurance The Company’s involvement in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties may result in the Company becoming subject to liability for pollution, blow outs, property damage, personal injury or other hazards. Although the Company has obtained insurance in accordance with industry standards to address such risks, such insurance has limitations on liability that may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of such liabilities. In addition, such risks may not be insurable in all circumstances, or management may elect, in certain circumstances, not to obtain insurance to deal with specific risks due to the high premiums associated with such insurance, or for other reasons. The payment of such uninsured liabilities would reduce the funds available to the Company. The occurrence of a significant event that the Company is not fully insured against, or the insolvency of the insurer of such event, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or prospects. No Assurance of Earnings The Company currently has one oil and gas property in production. The Company has an accumulated deficit - 12 - from its historical operating results and there is no assurance that the business of the Company will be profitable in the future. Management cannot guarantee that the Company will continue generating revenues in the future. A failure to generate revenues may cause the Company to eventually go out of business. The Company has not paid dividends at any time in its history to date and there is no assurance that the Company will pay a dividend at any time in the future. Reliance on Operators and Key Employees To the extent that the Company is not the operator of its oil and gas properties, the Company depends on third party operators for the timing of activities related to such properties and may be largely unable to direct or control the activities of the operators, except through joint venture participation and voting. In addition, the success of the Company largely depends upon the performance of its key employees and on the advice and project management skills of various consulting geologists, geophysicists and engineers retained by the Company from time to time. Although there are other personnel available in the sector who could replace Company exploration experts, there is likely to be some difficulty in finding immediate replacements of suitable calibre. Political and Country Risk The Company’s oil and gas interests are located in New Zealand and, until May 30, 2008, in Papua New Guinea. Papua New Guinea may be considered to be a developing country and hence has a higher risk than New Zealand of becoming politically and/or economically unstable in the future. Such instability, and any changes in regulations or shifts in political condition, are beyond the Company’s control and may adversely affect its business. Exploration and development activities in politically or economically unstable countries may require protracted negotiations with host governments, national oil companies and third parties and are frequently subject to economic and political considerations, such as taxation, nationalisation, expropriation, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation and approval requirements or timelines, governmental regulation and the risk of actions by lawless factions, any of which could adversely affect the economics of exploration or development projects. Infrastructure development in Papua New Guinea is limited. In addition, the Company’s properties were located in remote areas, which may prove difficult or time-consuming to access. These factors may affect the Company’s ability to explore and develop its properties, and to store and transport its oil and gas production. Labour Requirements The Company may be required to hire and train local workers in its petroleum and natural gas operations. Some of these workers may be organised into labour unions. Any strike activity or labour unrest could adversely affect the Company’s ongoing operations and its ability to explore for, produce and market its oil and gas production. Regulatory Requirements The current and future operations of the Company, including development activities and commencement of production on its properties, require permits, licences and renewals of these from various foreign and local governmental authorities, and are governed by laws and regulations relating to oil and gas exploration and development, prices, royalties, allowable production, import and export of hydrocarbons, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land access and use, permit conditions, environmental protection (including carbon emissions restrictions) as well as those regulations which relate to all companies operating in the relevant jurisdictions such as relating to corporate governance, withdrawal of capital from a country in which the Company is operating, taxation, and employment laws. Management believes that the Company currently holds or has applied for all necessary licences and permits to carry on the activities which it is currently conducting under applicable laws and regulations in respect of its properties, and also believes that the Company is complying in all material respects with the terms of such licences and permits. However, the Company’s ability to obtain, sustain or renew such licences and permits on acceptable terms is subject to changes in regulations and policies and the discretion of the applicable governments. - 13 - Failure to comply with all applicable laws, regulations and licensing and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions, including orders to cease or curtail operations, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Violations of applicable laws or regulations may result in imposition of civil or criminal fines or penalties. Third parties who suffer loss or damage due to oil and gas operations may be entitled to claim compensation. Amendments to current laws, regulations, licences and permits governing operations and activities of oil and gas companies, or more stringent implementation of these, could have a material adverse impact on the Company and could cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs, reduction in levels of production at producing properties, require abandonment of properties, or delay development of new properties. Management believes that the Company’s operations comply with all applicable legislation and regulations and that the existence of such legislation and regulations have no more restrictive effect on the Company’s method of operations than on similar companies in the industry. Title Matters Management has investigated the rights to explore the various oil and gas properties the Company holds or proposes to acquire or participate in and, to the best of its knowledge, those rights are in good standing. No assurance can be given that applicable governments will not revoke, or significantly alter the conditions of, any particular exploration and development authorisation or that such exploration and development authorisation will not be challenged. In all cases, the terms and conditions of the permit or licence granting the right to the Company to explore for, and develop, hydrocarbons, prescribe a work programme and the date or dates by which such work programme must be done. Varying circumstances, including the financial resources available to the Company, the inability to secure equipment when required, and reliance on third party operators in respect of its permits and licences, may result in the failure to satisfy the terms and conditions of a permit or licence and result in the complete loss of the interest in the permit or licence without compensation to the Company. Such terms and conditions may be renegotiated with applicable regulatory authorities, but there is no assurance that the applicable authority will agree to the renegotiation offer. The Company does not have sole control over the future course of development in most of its properties. Such property interests are subject to joint venture agreements which can give rise to disputes as to geological interpretation or commercial imperatives with other parties who are financially interested in the property. The Company participates in its permits or licences with other industry participants, some of whom have access to greater or lesser resources from which to meet their joint venture capital commitments. If the Company is unable to meet its commitments, the other joint venture participants may assume some or all of the Company’s deficiency and thereby assume a pro-rata portion of the Company’s interest in any production from the joint venture area. If another participant in a joint venture, which participant has fewer resources than the Company, is unable to meet its commitments, it may delay or veto exploration or development plans which it cannot afford, or it might default on its commitments. This may delay the Company’s desired exploration or development programme and/or lead to the Company and other participants assuming all or some of that entity’s interest, and therefore meeting a pro-rata share of its required contributions (as well as receiving a pro-rata share of any production). General claims by native peoples in New Zealand and Papua New Guinea may adversely affect the rights or operations of the Company, although the Company has not received any notice of any direct challenge to any of the Company’s titles or tenures. Non-US Assets and Management The Company is incorporated under the laws of British Columbia, Canada, and the majority of the Company’s directors and officers are residents of countries other than the United States. Substantially all of the assets of the Company are located outside North America. Consequently, it may be difficult for United States investors to enforce in the United States judgments of United States courts against assets of the Company. Furthermore, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments of the U.S. courts based on civil liability against the Company’s non-U.S. resident officers or directors. - 14 - Public Market Risks The Company’s shares are relatively illiquid in that they do not trade large volumes relative to other public companies. There can be no assurance that a stable market for the Company’s common shares will be maintained. If the Company fails to remain current in its filings with the SEC, Canadian and New Zealand regulatory authorities, the Company may lose any one or more of its AMEX, Canadian and New Zealand listings, which would adversely affect the liquidity of an investment in the Company. Dilution, Change of Control The Company’s Articles authorise the issuance of an unlimited number of shares of common and preferred stock. The Company’s Board of Directors has the legal power to issue any number of further shares without stockholder approval (although the policies of the TSX-V and AMEX require shareholders’ approval in certain situations). The Company’s Board of Directors may issue shares to acquire further capital, in order to carry out its intended operations, to expand its current operations, or to provide additional financing for future activities. The issuance of any such shares may result in a reduction of the book value or market price of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common shares. If the Company does issue any such additional shares, such issuance will also cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all existing shareholders. Further, any such issuance may result in a change of control of the Company. TSX-V policies require the Company to obtain shareholder approval of any transaction which will result in the creation of a new control person (as defined). Conflicts of Interest Interests in some petroleum properties have been acquired from or in conjunction with, or interests sold to, TAG Oil Ltd. with which the Company had a common director until end January 2006 and has certain common principal shareholders. In addition, the Company owns shares in Rift Oil plc (approximately 0.21% of issued share capital) to whom it transferred an interest in a Papua New Guinea exploration licence under a farm-out arrangement in 2005. The Chief Executive Officer of Rift Oil plc is the spouse of the Company’s former Chief Executive Officer, Dr. David Bennett, who is now a director of TAG and of Rift. The Company’s former chairman and a current director of the Company, Mr. David Newman, serves as a director and Chairman of Infratil Limited, the parent company of Infratil Gas Limited, a greater than 10% shareholder of the Company. He is not employed by Infratil or the Company, is remunerated only in his capacity as a director of each company, and serves as chairman in a part-time capacity of Infratil. The Board has determined that he does not have any material relationship with the Company which might interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement. He does not take part in discussions nor vote in relation to matters involving Infratil’s equity participation in the Company. One of the Company’s directors, Mr. Bernhard Zinkhofer, provides legal advice to the Company in his capacity as a partner of the Company’s Canadian legal advisors, Lang Michener LLP. Certain of the directors of the Company are or were directors and/or officers of other corporations engaged in the petroleum exploration and development or related industries. It is possible that conflicts of interest may arise between their duties as director and/or officer of the other companies, and as director or officer of the Company. The percentage participation of the Company and any other company in a property is determined by the Board of Directors of each such company independently, using the best business judgment of the Board. Under the Company’s Articles and the relevant legislation, any such conflict of interest is required to be disclosed and any contract in which a director or officer has a material interest must be referred to the Board of Directors for approval, and the interested director will not vote on any resolution giving such approval. The Company requires confidentiality obligations from all officers, employees and consultants. Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations Management believes that in past fiscal years the Company was a Passive Foreign Investment Company (“PFIC”), as that term is defined in Section 1297 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Consequently, this classification may result in adverse tax consequences for U.S. holders of the Company’s shares during those fiscal years. - 15 - U.S. shareholders are urged to consult their own tax advisors concerning the potential application of the PFIC rules to your ownership and disposition of the Company’s shares. 