Item 1A. Risk Factors The nature of forward-looking information is that such information involves significant assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Certain of our public documents and statements made by our authorized officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives acting on our behalf may include forward-looking information which will be influenced by the factors described below and by other assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking information is based on assumptions, estimates, forecasts and projections regarding our future results as well as the future effectiveness of our strategic plans and our operational decisions. Forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us are subject to the risk that the forecasts, projections and expectations of management, or assumptions underlying such forecasts, projections and expectations, may prove to be inaccurate. Accordingly, actual results and our implementation of our plans and operations may differ materially from forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. The following discussion identifies certain important factors that could affect our actual results and actions and could cause such results and actions to differ materially from forward-looking statements. 15 Table of Contents Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter which could negatively affect our results of operations and our stock price. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and our results may fluctuate significantly in the future. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and may be negatively affected as a result of a number of factors, including: • the variable size and timing of individual license transactions and services engagements; • delays in maintenance renewals or non-renewals or cancellation of maintenance services; • delays in the completion of product implementations or other consulting projects; • changes in the proportion of revenues attributable to license fees, hosting fees and services; • risks and delays related to successful completion of customer funded development; • restructuring charges related to internal restructuring activities, including possible revisions to assumptions underlying previous restructuring charges; • changes in the level of operating expenses; • our success in, and costs associated with, developing, introducing and marketing new products; • delays associated with product development, including the development and introduction of new products and new releases of existing products; • the development and introduction of new operating systems and/or technological changes in computer systems that require additional development efforts; • software defects and other product quality problems and the costs associated with solving those problems; and • personnel changes, including changes in our management. Changes in operating expenses or variations in the timing of recognition of specific revenues resulting from any of these factors can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter-to-quarter and may in some future quarter result in losses or have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. If the markets for service delivery management solutions and our Service Suite solution do not grow as anticipated or if our service delivery management solutions are not accepted in the marketplace, we may not be able to grow our business. Given the saturation of the market for asset management and customer management software generally, we have broadened our product offerings in recent years to include our Service Suite solution. We did this in order to compete in the service delivery management market in general and the field service management market in particular. The market for service delivery management solutions in general, and our Service Suite solution in particular, are emerging markets and may not evolve as we anticipate they will. If customers’ demands in these emerging markets do not grow as anticipated or if our service delivery management solutions and Service Suite solution are not accepted in the marketplace, then we may not be able to grow our business. If the market does not accept our new products and enhancements or upgrades to our existing products that we launch from time to time, our operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. From time to time, we may acquire new products, launch new products, and release enhancements or upgrades to existing products. For example, in December 2004, we released a new product called the Indus Asset Suite, which incorporates the key capabilities of our legacy PassPort and InsiteEE product lines. The Indus Asset Suite includes the Indus Foundation Architecture, or IFA, our new services-oriented architecture, 16 Table of Contents and a new user interface. In 2006 we released a new product called RPM, which is a data warehouse and business intelligence solution designed to help clients drive improvements across their asset, field service and customer service operations. There can be no assurance that these or any other new or enhanced products will be sold successfully or that they can achieve market acceptance. Our future success with these products and other next generation products will depend on our ability to accurately determine the functionality and features required by our customers, as well as the ability to enhance and integrate our products and deliver them in a timely manner. We cannot predict the present and future size of the potential market for our next generation of products, and we may incur substantial costs to enhance, modify and integrate our products and services in order to meet the demands of this potential market. Demand for our Asset Suite and Customer Suite products may grow slowly or decrease in upcoming quarters, which may impair our business and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Overall demand for our Asset Suite and Customer Suite products in general may grow slowly or decrease in upcoming quarters and years because of unfavorable general economic conditions, decreased spending by companies in need of our products or other reasons. This may reflect the capital spending environment generally, a saturation of the market for asset management and customer management software generally, as well as deregulation and retrenchments affecting the way companies purchase these types of software. To the extent that there is a slowdown in the overall market for our products, our business, results of operations and financial condition are likely to be materially adversely affected. If we are not able to license software to more new customers not currently using our software, our business and long-term prospects could be harmed. During fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006, a substantial portion of our software license sales were to existing customers. This has been part of our strategy to license our service delivery management solutions to our installed base of customers. However, in the future we believe we will need to grow the percentage of our software license sales that are made to new customers because those sales typically generate more new services and maintenance revenue. If we are not able to grow our software license sales to new customers, it will impair our ability to grow our business and maintain consistent profitability. As a result of our lengthy sales cycle and the large size of our typical orders from new customers, any delays we experience will affect our operating results. The purchase of our software products, particularly the Asset Suite and the Customer Suite, generally involves a significant commitment of capital over a long period of time by a customer. There are inherent risks of delays frequently associated with large capital expenditures procedures within an organization, such as budgetary constraints and internal approval reviews. During the sales process, we may devote significant time and resources to a prospective customer, including costs associated with multiple site visits, product demonstrations and feasibility studies, and experience significant delays over which we will have no control. Any such delays in the execution of orders have caused, and may in the future cause, material fluctuations in our operating results. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future consolidated taxable income will be subject to annual limitations under U.S. tax rules, which could have a negative effect on financial results in future periods. As of December 31, 2006, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $64.9 million available for federal income tax purposes. Such carryforwards may be used to reduce consolidated taxable income, if any, in future years. These net operating loss carryforwards begin to expire in the year 2012. We have determined, upon the advice and analysis of our tax experts, that utilization of these net operating loss carryforwards will be subject to annual limitations under the provisions of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code due to changes in our ownership. These annual limitations may cause us to be in a tax payment position in future years, which could have a negative effect on financial results. Depending on the amount and timing 17 Table of Contents of any taxable income, these annual limitations may also hinder our ability to utilize all of the net operating loss carryforwards before they expire. If we experience delays in product development or the introduction of new products or new versions of existing products, our business and sales will be negatively affected. We have, in the past, experienced delays in product development that have negatively affected our relationships with existing customers and have resulted in lost sales of our products and services to existing and prospective customers and our failure to recover our product development costs. In addition, delays in product development can, in some instances, delay the recognition of deferred software license revenue. There can be no assurance that we will not experience delays in connection with our current product development or future development activities. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products, or enhancements to and integrations of our existing products, in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Because we have limited resources, we must effectively manage and properly allocate and prioritize our product development efforts and our porting efforts relating to newer products and operating systems. There can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful or, even if successful, that any resulting products or operating systems will achieve customer acceptance. Delays in our performance of software implementation and other consulting projects may negatively affect our business. Following license sales to new customers, our consulting services may be engaged to assist in the implementation of our products and their extended solutions. Implementation may involve a lengthy process, including evaluation of customer requirements and business processes, customer training and consultation. In addition, we are often engaged by our existing customers for other lengthy consulting projects. A successful implementation or other consulting project requires a close working relationship between us, the customer and, if applicable, third-party consultants and systems integrators who assist in the process. These factors may increase the costs associated with completion of any given consulting project, increase the risks of collection of amounts due during implementation or other consulting projects, and increase risks of cancellation or delay of such projects. Delays in the completion of a product implementation or with any other consulting project may require that the revenues associated with such implementation or project be recognized over a longer period than originally anticipated, or may result in disputes with customers regarding performance by us and payment by the customers. Such delays have caused, and may in the future cause, material fluctuations in our operating results. Similarly, customers typically may cancel implementation and other services projects at any time without significant penalty, and any such cancellations could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Because our expenses are relatively fixed, a small variation in the timing of recognition of specific revenues can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter-to-quarter and may in some future quarter result in losses or have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our growth is dependent, in part, upon the successful development of our indirect sales channels and maintaining good working relationships with systems integrators and other technology companies. We believe that our future growth will depend, in part, on developing and maintaining successful strategic relationships or partnerships with systems integrators and other technology companies. One of our strategies is to continue to increase the proportion of customers served through these indirect channels. If we are not able to successfully partner with qualified systems integrators and other technology companies, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Because lower unit prices are often charged on sales made through indirect channels, increased indirect sales could reduce our average selling prices and result in lower gross margins. As indirect sales increase, our direct contact with our customer base could decrease, and we may have more difficulty accurately forecasting sales, evaluating customer satisfaction and recognizing emerging customer requirements. In addition, sales of our products through indirect channels may reduce our service revenues, as the third-party systems integrators reselling our products provide these services. Further, when third-party 18 Table of Contents integrators install our products and train customers to use our products, it could result in incorrect product installation, failure to properly train the customer, or general failure of an integrator to satisfy the customer, any of which could have a negative effect on our relationship with the integrator and the customer. Such problems could damage our reputation and the reputation of our products and services. In addition, we may face additional competition from these systems integrators and third-party software providers who develop, acquire or market products competitive with our products. Our strategy of marketing our products directly to customers and indirectly through systems integrators and other technology companies may result in distribution channel conflicts. Our direct sales efforts may compete with those of our indirect channels and, to the extent different systems integrators target the same customers, systems integrators may also come into conflict with each other. Any channel conflicts that develop may have a material adverse effect on our relationships with systems integrators or hurt our ability to attract new systems integrators to market our products. If we are unable to maintain consistent profitability and positive operating cash flow in future quarters, our business and long-term prospects may be harmed. We have a recent history of generating net losses and negative cash flow from operations. For example, we generated a net loss of $12.0 million and $6.1 million in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively, and used cash of $3.4 million and provided cash of $1.3 million in operating activities during the same periods. Although we were profitable and cash flow positive in the second half of fiscal 2005 and all four quarters of fiscal 2006, if we are unable to maintain consistent profitability and positive cash flow from operations in future quarters, it will negatively affect our capacity to implement our business strategy and may require us to take actions in the short-term that will impair the long-term prospects of our business. If we are unable to maintain consistent profitability and positive cash flow from operations in future quarters, it may also result in liquidity problems and impair our ability to finance our continuing business operations on terms that are acceptable to us. Further, we may need to enter into financing transactions that are dilutive to our stockholders’ equity ownership in our Company. We have experienced significant change in our executive management team and our board of directors, and the current executive management team and board have only recently begun to work together. We have experienced significant change in our executive management team and our board of directors. In January 2006, Arthur Beckman was promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. In October 2005, Patrick Henn joined the Company as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We appointed Joseph Trino as Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy in January 2005. Gregory Dukat was promoted to Chief Executive Officer and John Gregg was promoted to Executive Vice President of Field Operations in February 2004. Furthermore, we have experienced significant change in our board of directors as five of our current seven board members have been on the board twenty-four months or less. The current executive management team and the board of directors have only recently begun to work together, and they may be unable to integrate and work effectively as a team. There are no assurances that we will be able to motivate and retain the current executive management team or that they will be able to work together effectively. There are also no assurances that there will not be further turnover on our board of directors. If we lose any member of our executive management team or they are unable to work together effectively, or if there is further board turnover, our business, operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our future success depends, in significant part, upon the continued service of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel, as well as our ability to attract and retain new personnel. Competition for qualified sales, consulting, technical and other personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain additional highly qualified employees in the future. Our ability to attract, assimilate and retain key personnel may be adversely impacted by the fact that we went through several reductions in force during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2004 and 2005. If we are unable to offer competitive salaries and bonuses, our key sales, consulting, technical and senior management personnel may 19 Table of Contents be unwilling to continue service for us, and it may be difficult for us to attract new personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain personnel, particularly in senior management positions, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. The loss of any of our key sales, consulting, technical and senior management personnel, particularly if lost to competitors, could impair our ability to grow business. Further additions of new personnel and departures of existing personnel, particularly in key positions, could be disruptive and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business may suffer from risks associated with growth through acquisitions, should they occur. In recent years we have acquired IUS and Wishbone, and we evaluate acquisition opportunities from time to time. All acquisitions involve specific risks. Some of these risks include: • the assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies; • diversion of our management’s attention; • inability to achieve market acceptance of acquired products; and • possible reduction of our reported asset values and earnings because of: • goodwill impairment; • increased interest costs; • issuances of additional securities or debt; and • difficulties in integrating acquired businesses and assets. As we grow and attempt to integrate any business and assets that we may acquire, we can give no assurance that we will be able to: • properly maintain and take advantage of the business or value of any acquired business and assets; • identify suitable acquisition candidates; • complete any additional acquisitions; or • integrate any acquired businesses or assets into our operations. The strain on our management may negatively affect our business and our ability to execute our business strategy. Changes to our business and customer base have placed a strain on management and operations. Previous expansion, including through acquisition, had resulted in substantial growth in the number of our employees, the scope of our operating and financial systems and the geographic area of our operations, resulting in increased responsibility for management personnel. Our restructuring activities in recent years and our acquisitions of IUS and Wishbone have placed additional demands on management. In connection with our restructuring activities and our acquisitions, we will be required to effectively manage our operations, improve our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures on a timely basis and to train and manage our employee work force. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively manage our operations and failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The market for our products is highly competitive, and we may be unable to maintain or increase our market share. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop more advanced products more quickly and less expensively than our existing and potential competitors and to educate potential customers on the benefits of licensing our products. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base than us, which may allow them to introduce products with more features, greater functionality and lower prices than our products. These 20 Table of Contents competitors could also bundle existing or new products with other, more established products in order to effectively compete with us. The service delivery management market is very fragmented and consolidation by competitors with greater resources is a possible occurrence. If a trend emerges such that customers decide to consolidate their information technology systems and eliminate standalone “best-of-breed” application software, our revenues, margins and results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of sales volume, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Any material reduction in the price of our products would negatively affect our gross revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and if we fail to do so we may be unable to maintain or increase our market share. If we don’t respond to rapid technological change and evolving industry standards, we will be unable to compete effectively. The industries in which we participate are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards in computer hardware and software technology, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products embodying new technologies, the emergence of new standards or changes in customer requirements could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance and integrate our existing software products, expand our products through development or acquisition, and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve customer acceptance. For example, in January 2005 Indus announced the release of IFA, a common architectural platform for all our applications. IFA is a convergent technology strategy that provides common tools across all Indus suites to deliver a common interface and software platform. There can be no assurance that IFA, or any future enhancements to or integrations of existing products, or any new products developed or acquired by us will achieve customer acceptance or will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. There can also be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, acquiring and marketing new products or enhancements to our existing products that incorporate new technology on a timely basis. If we fail to comply with laws or government regulations, we may be subject to penalties and fines. We are not directly subject to regulation by any governmental agency, other than regulations applicable to businesses generally, and there are currently few laws or regulations addressing the products and services we provide. We do, however, license our products and provide services, from time to time, to the government, government agencies, government contractors and other customers that are in industries regulated by the government. As a result, our operations, as they relate to our relationships with governmental entities and customers in regulated industries, are governed by certain laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are subject to change without notice to us. In some instances, compliance with these laws and regulations may be difficult or costly, which may negatively affect our business and results of operations. In addition, if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may be subject to significant penalties and fines that could materially negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial position. If we are not successful in Japan, we may not be able to grow revenue and we may need to write off some portion of our capitalized software, which could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. We have made significant investments in the Japanese market as part of our license arrangements with Tokyo Electric Power Company (“TEPCO”), Electric Power Development Company, and Shikoku Electric Company. These investments include resources to localize our asset management products for Japan and establishing a regional office in Tokyo. As of March 31, 2006, we had $3.8 million of unamortized capitalized software resulting from our efforts to localize our asset management products for Japan. We cannot be sure that we will succeed in Japan due to the cost and difficulty we have encountered localizing our products in 21 Table of Contents Japan, the cost of maintaining operations in Japan, and cultural differences in the conduct of business, including higher customer expectations and demands. Also, TEPCO is a significant source of revenue and referrals for new customers in Japan. If we are not able to maintain a good customer relationship with TEPCO, it will impact our revenue in Japan and our ability to grow license sales in Japan. If we are not successful in Japan, we may not be able to grow our revenue and we could have to write-off some portion of our capitalized software, which could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to expand our international operations, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. International revenue (from sales outside the United States) accounted for approximately 24% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 and 21% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. We maintain an operational presence and have established support offices in the United Kingdom, Australia, France and Japan. We expect international sales to continue to be a material component of our business. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. In addition, international expansion may require us to localize products in additional countries, establish additional foreign operations and hire additional personnel. This may require significant management attention and financial resources and could adversely affect our operating margins. To the extent we are unable to expand foreign operations in a timely or cost-effective manner, our growth, if any, in international sales will be limited, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The success of our international operations is subject to many uncertainties. Our international business involves a number of risks, including: • costs and other difficulties in producing and gaining acceptance of localized versions of our products; • cultural differences in the conduct of business; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, including laws related to employment and laws related to contractual agreements with partners and resellers; • unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • seasonality due to the annual slow-down in European business activity during the third calendar quarter; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and withholding taxes that restrict the repatriation of earnings; • tariffs and other trade barriers; and • negative effects relating to hostilities, war or terrorist acts. To the extent profit is generated or losses are incurred in foreign countries, our effective income tax rate may be materially and adversely affected. In some markets, localization of our products will be essential to achieve market penetration. We may incur substantial costs and experience delays in localizing our products, and there can be no assurance that any localized product will ever generate significant revenues. There can be no assurance that any of the factors described herein will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, our business, operating results and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents We have only limited protection of our proprietary rights and technology. Our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of the protections provided under applicable copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and license arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, distributors and corporate partners, and license agreements with respect to our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our products or to reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, to use our products or technology without authorization, or to develop similar technology independently. Moreover, the laws of some countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Furthermore, we have no patents and existing copyright laws afford only limited protection. We license source code for certain of our products and providing such source code may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuses of our intellectual property. Policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively impact our future operating results. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our proprietary software against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. We may not be successful in avoiding claims that we infringe other’s proprietary rights. Many patents, copyrights and trademarks have been issued in the software and technology markets in which we operate. As a result, we are subject from time to time to claims that our technology violates a third-party’s patents or other proprietary rights. These types of claims, with or without merit, can be time consuming and expensive to defend, or could cause us to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts. They could also require us to cease offering affected products, to enter into royalty or license agreements, or to license software under unfavorable terms. These types of claims may also damage our ability to sell products due to any uncertainty generated as to intellectual property ownership and may damage our customer relationships. Any of these possible results could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Our failure to realize the expected benefits of our restructurings, including anticipated cost savings, could result in unfavorable financial results. Over the last several years we have undertaken several internal restructuring initiatives. For example, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, the Company restructured business activities by eliminating approximately 140 positions and consolidating office space in Atlanta, GA and San Francisco, CA, wherein certain functions were transferred from these locations to Company-owned office buildings in Columbia, SC. These types of internal restructurings have operational risks, including reduced productivity and lack of focus as we terminate some employees and assign new tasks and provide training to other employees. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the anticipated cost savings from these restructurings and any failure to achieve the anticipated cost savings could cause our financial results to fall short of expectations and adversely affect our financial position. We have taken net charges for restructuring of $10.2 million in 2001, $8.2 million in 2002, $2.0 million in the three-month transition period ended March 31, 2003, $44,000 in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004 and $10.4 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. There can be no assurance that additional charges for restructuring expenses will not be required in future periods. Significant future restructuring charges could cause financial results to be unfavorable. 23 Table of Contents Assumptions underlying our prior restructuring charges may need to be revised which could have unfavorable financial results. Assumptions underlying our prior restructuring charges may need to be revised from time to time for a variety of reasons, including, for example, revisions related to changes in market conditions and the timing of estimated sublease income as to the subleasing of leased property in areas where we have consolidated office space. Any such revised assumptions could cause adjustments to our prior restructuring charges, which could have unfavorable financial results. Product liability claims made by our customers, whether successful or not, could be expensive and could harm our business. The sale and support of our products may entail the risk of product liability claims. Our license agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions contained in such license agreements may not be effective as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. A successful product liability claim brought against us relating to our product or third-party software embedded in our products could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. We maintain performance bonds, directly and indirectly, in accordance with certain customer contracts, some of which are collateralized by letters of credit supported by restricted cash. A failed implementation or a significant software malfunction leading to payment under one or more of these bonds, could adversely affect our liquidity. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of Indus, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition or other change in control of Indus, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a price above the then current market price for our common stock. These provisions include: • authorization of a stockholder rights plan or “poison pill” to deter a takeover attempt; • authorization of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to thwart a takeover attempt; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • limitations on stockholder action by written consent; and • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limit our ability to enter into business combination transactions with 15% or greater stockholders that our board of directors has not approved. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation with the board of directors. These provisions may apply even if some stockholders may consider the transaction beneficial. 24 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. We have evaluated and will continue to evaluate our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires an annual management assessment of the design and effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm addressing this assessment. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. OTHER RISKS The foregoing is not a complete description of all risks relevant to our future performance, and the foregoing should be read and understood together with and in the context of similar discussions which may be contained in the documents that we file with the SEC in the future. We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revision to the foregoing or any update to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. 