Item 1A. Risk Factors If the semiconductor industry does not adopt embedded test technology on a widespread basis, our revenues could decline and our stock price could fall. To date, the semiconductor industry has not adopted embedded test technology as an alternative to current testing methods on a widespread basis. If the semiconductor industry does not adopt embedded test technology widely and in the near future, our growth will be limited, our revenues could decline, and our stock price could fall. We cannot provide assurance that integrated circuit designers and design companies’ customers will accept embedded test technology as an alternative to current testing methods in the time frame we anticipate, or at all. The industry may fail to adopt embedded test technology for many reasons, including the following: our current and potential customers may not accept or embrace our LV2005TM integrated family of products; potential customers may determine that existing solutions adequately address their testing needs, or the industry may develop alternative technologies to address their testing needs; potential customers may not be willing to accept the perceived delays in the early design stages associated with implementing embedded test technology in order to achieve potential time and cost savings at later stages of silicon debugging and production testing; 11 potential customers may have concerns over the reliability of embedded testing methods relative to existing test methods; our existing and potential customers may react to declines in demand for semiconductors by curtailing or delaying new initiatives for new complex semiconductors or by extending the approval process for new projects, thereby lengthening our sales cycles; and designers may be reluctant to take on the added responsibility of incorporating embedded test technology as part of their design process, or to learn how to implement embedded test technology. If the industries into which we sell our products experience recession or other cyclical effects impacting our customers’ research and development budgets, our operating results could be negatively impacted. Our sales are dependent upon capital spending trends and new design projects, and a substantial portion of our costs is fixed in the near term. The demand from our customers is uncertain and difficult to predict. Slower growth in the semiconductor and systems markets such as postponed or canceled capital expenditures for previously planned expansions or new fabrication facility construction projects, a reduced number of design starts, reduction of design and test budgets or continued consolidation among our customers would harm our business and financial condition. The primary customers for semiconductors that incorporate our embedded test technology are companies in the automotive, consumer, communications, medical products, networking and server products industries. Any significant downturn in these particular markets or in general economic conditions which result in the cutback of research and development budgets or capital expenditures would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services and could harm our business. If the economy declines as a result of economic, political or social turmoil, existing and prospective customers may further reduce their design budgets or delay implementation of our products, which could harm our business and operating results. In addition, the markets for semiconductor products are cyclical. In recent years, most countries have experienced significant economic difficulties. These difficulties triggered a significant downturn in the semiconductor market, resulting in reduced budgets for chip design tools. In addition, the electronics industry has historically been subject to seasonal and cyclical fluctuations in demand for its products, and this trend may continue in the future. These industry downturns have been, and may continue to be, characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and subsequent erosion of average selling prices. As a result, our future operating results may reflect substantial fluctuations from period to period as a consequence of these industry patterns, general economic conditions affecting the timing of orders from customers and other factors. Any negative factors affecting the semiconductor industry, including the downturns described here, could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a history of losses and an accumulated deficit of approximately $99.8 million as of December 31, 2007. If we do not generate sufficient net revenue in the future to achieve or sustain profitability, our stock price could decline. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception, including losses of $3.7 million, $7.1 million and $10.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $99.8 million. We expect our future revenues to be impacted by our long sales cycle and our revenue recognition policies, and we expect to continue to invest in our research and development projects as well as service operations required to support our business development activities. These product and business development expenditures as well as other operating expenses could continue to exceed our revenues, thus preventing us from achieving and maintaining profitability. To achieve and maintain profitability, we will need to generate and sustain substantially higher revenues while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. If we fail to achieve profitability within the time frame expected by securities analysts or investors and our cash balances continue to decline, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. We may not achieve profitability if our revenues do not increase or if they increase more slowly than we expect. In addition, our operating expenses are largely fixed, and any shortfall in anticipated revenues in any given period could harm our operating results. The sales and implementation cycles for our products are typically long and unpredictable, taking from three months to one year for sales and an additional one to six months for implementation. As a result, we may have difficulty predicting future revenues and our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate. 12 Our sales cycle has ranged from three months to one year and our customers’ implementation cycle has been approximately an additional one to six months. We believe that convincing a potential customer to integrate our technology into an integrated circuit at the design stage, which we refer to as a design win, is critical to retaining existing customers and to obtaining new customers. However, acceptance of our embedded test technology generally involves a significant commitment of resources by prospective customers and a fundamental change in their method of designing and testing integrated circuits. Many of our potential customers are large enterprises that generally do not adopt new design methodologies quickly. Also, we may have limited access to the key decision-makers of potential customers who can authorize the adoption of our technology. As a result, the period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the sale of our products to that customer, if any, is often lengthy and may include delays associated with our customers’ budgeting and approval processes, as well as a substantial investment of our time and resources. We have incurred high customer engagement and support costs, including sales commissions, and the failure to manage these costs could harm our operating results. If we fail to achieve a design win with a potential customer early in a given product cycle, it is unlikely that the potential customer will become a customer before its next product cycle, if at all. Because of the length of our sales cycle, our failure to achieve design wins could have a material and prolonged adverse effect on our sales and revenue growth. Our revenue streams may fluctuate significantly due to the length of our sales cycle, which may make our future revenues difficult to project and may cause our stock price to fluctuate. If a customer cancels its order or defaults on payment or if we renegotiate an existing order we may be unable to recognize revenue from backlog, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of the orders in our backlog provides customers with cancellation rights or is recognized as revenue when payment is due. In addition, some orders extend over periods ranging up to thirty-six months. If a customer cancels its order or delays its contractual payments we may not be able to realize revenue from backlog in the time frame expected or at all. Also, it is possible that customers from whom we expect to derive revenue from backlog will default, and as a result we may not be able to recognize expected revenue from backlog. If a customer defaults or fails to pay amounts owed, or if the level of defaults increases, our bad debt expense is likely to increase. Any material payment default by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in our revenues and operating results could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and may do so in the future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Accordingly, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations may not be an indication of our future performance. In future periods, our revenues and results of operations may be below the estimates of public market analysts and investors. This discrepancy could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Fluctuations in our revenues and operating results may be caused by: timing, terms and conditions of customer agreements; customers placing orders at the end of the quarter; the mix of our license and services revenues; timing of customer usage of our technology in their product designs and the recognition of revenues therefrom when amounts are due based on design usage; timing of sales commission expenses and the recognition of license revenues from related customer agreements; changes in our and our customers’ development schedules and levels of expenditures on research and development; industry patterns and changes or cyclical and seasonal fluctuations in the markets we target; timing and acceptance of new technologies, product releases or enhancements by us, our competitors or our customers; timing and completion of milestones under customer agreements; and market and general economic conditions. Delays or deferrals in purchasing decisions by our customers may increase as we develop new or enhanced products. Our current dependence on a small number of customers increases the revenue impact of each customer’s actions relative to these factors. Our expense levels are based, in large part, on our expectations regarding future revenues, and as a result net income for any quarterly period in which material customer agreements are delayed could vary significantly from our budget projections. 13 The accounting rules regarding revenue recognition may cause fluctuations in our revenues independent of our order position. The accounting rules we are required to follow require us to recognize revenues only when certain criteria are met. As a result, for a given quarter it is possible for us to fall short in our revenues and/or earnings estimates even though total orders are according to our plan or, conversely, to meet our revenue and/or earnings estimates even though total orders fall short of our plan, due to revenues resulting from the recognition of previously deferred revenues. Orders for software support and consulting services yield revenues over multiple quarters, rather than at the time of sale. The specific terms agreed to with a customer and/or any changes to the rules interpreting such terms may have the effect of requiring deferral of product revenues in whole or in part or, alternatively, of requiring us to accelerate the recognition of such revenues for products to be used over multiple years. Intense competition in the semiconductor and systems industries, particularly in the design and test of semiconductors, could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and prevent us from achieving or sustaining profitability. The semiconductor and systems industries are extremely competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology. The market for embedded test solutions is still evolving, and we expect competition to become more intense in the future. Our current principal competitors in the design phase of product development include: electronic design automation providers such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc., Magma Design Automation Inc., Mentor Graphics Corporation and Synopsys, Inc., all of which offer basic built-in self-test capability; smaller test tool providers; potential customers that develop test solutions internally; and integrated device manufacturers, such as International Business Machines Corporation, that use their own test solutions in chips manufactured for and sold to others. Our embedded test technology also has the potential to impact the automated test equipment market, which may place us in competition with traditional hardware tester manufacturers such as Advantest Corporation, Credence Systems Corporation, LTX Corporation, Teradyne, Inc and Verigy Ltd. As embedded test becomes adopted more widely in the market, any of these automated test equipment companies, or others, may offer their own embedded test solutions. Some of our competitors in electronic design automation and external test equipment businesses are significantly larger than we are and have greater financial resources, greater name recognition and longer operating histories than we have. Some of our competitors offer a more comprehensive range of products covering the entire design flow and complete external test flow, and they may be able to respond more quickly or adjust prices more effectively to take advantage of new opportunities or customer requirements. In addition, all of the tester manufacturers listed above participate in our LVReady partner program through which our embedded test access software is integrated into their test platform, which may provide them with additional insight into our business and technology. Increased competition in the semiconductor industry could result in pricing pressures, reduced sales, reduced margins or failure to achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance, any of which could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and achieving or sustaining profitability. Our target markets are comprised of a limited number of customers. If we fail to obtain or retain customer relationships, our revenues could decline. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a relatively small number of customers. Two customers accounted for approximately 21% and 19%, respectively, of total revenues in the year ended December 31, 2007; these customers accounted for approximately 26% and 18%, respectively, of total revenues in the year ended December 31, 2006; and these customers accounted for 31% and 10%, respectively, of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. We anticipate that we will continue to rely on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our future revenues and we must obtain additional large orders from customers on an ongoing basis to increase our revenues and grow our business. In addition, the loss of any significant or well-known customer could harm our operating results or our reputation. In particular, a loss of a significant customer could cause fluctuations in our results of operations because our expenses are fixed in the short term, it takes us a long time to replace customers and, because of required methods of revenue recognition, any offsetting license revenues may need to be recognized over a period of time. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on our ETCreate products for a significant portion of our revenues. Revenues from sales of our ETCreate products and related maintenance and training services accounted for 87%, 79% and 82% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We currently expect that revenues from our ETCreate products will continue to account for a substantial percentage of our revenues in the foreseeable future and thereafter. Our future operating results are significantly dependent upon the continued market acceptance of our products. Our business will be harmed if our products do not continue to achieve market acceptance or if we fail to develop and market improvements to our products or enhancements thereof. A decline in demand for our ETCreate products as a result of competition, technological change or other factors could harm our business. 14 Our products incorporate technology licensed from third parties. If any of these licenses are terminated, our ability to develop and license our products could be delayed or reduced. We use technology, including software, which we license from third parties. If we do not maintain our existing third party technology licenses or enter into licenses for alternative technologies, we could be required to cease or delay product shipments while we seek to develop alternative technologies. We depend on third parties to provide electronic design automation software that is compatible with our solution. If these third parties do not continue to provide compatible design products, we would need to develop alternatives, which could delay product introductions and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. Our customers depend on electronic design automation software to design their products using our solution. We depend on the same software to develop our products. Although we have established relationships with a variety of electronic design automation vendors to gain access to this software and to assure compatibility, these relationships may be terminated with limited notice. If any of these relationships were terminated and we were unable to obtain alternative software in a timely manner, our customers could be unable to use our solution. In addition, we could experience a significant increase in development costs, our development process could take longer, product introductions could be delayed and our revenues and operating results could decline. If automated test equipment companies are unwilling to work with us to make our technology compatible with theirs, we may need to pursue alternatives, which could increase the time it takes us to bring our solution to market and decrease customer acceptance of our technology. Although we are presently working with a number of automated test equipment companies to achieve optimal compatibility of our technologies, these companies may elect not to work with us in the future. If automated test equipment companies are unwilling to incorporate modifications into their equipment and operating systems to allow them to work with our technology, we may need to seek alternatives. These alternatives might not provide optimal levels of test function, and pursuing these alternatives could increase the time and expense it takes us to bring our technology to market, either of which could decrease customer acceptance of our technology and cause our revenues and margins to decline. Our future success will depend on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological advancements in the semiconductor industry. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and enhancements on a timely basis, our ability to attract and retain customers could be impaired, which would cause our operating results to decline. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, rapid changes in customer requirements, frequent product introductions and ongoing demands for greater speed and functionality. We must continually design, develop and introduce new products with improved features to be competitive. Our products may not achieve market acceptance or adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace, and we may not be successful in developing and marketing new products or enhancements to our existing products on a timely basis. The introduction of products embodying new technologies, the emergence of new industry standards or changes in customer requirements could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. We may not have the financial resources necessary to fund future innovations. If we are unable, for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business and operating results could be seriously harmed. Future changes in financial accounting standards, including pronouncements and interpretations of accounting pronouncements on software revenue recognition and stock-based compensation, may cause adverse unexpected revenue and expense fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. In particular, new pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements on software revenue recognition and stock-based compensation have occurred with frequency, may occur in the future and could impact our revenues, expenses and results of operations. Required changes in our methods of revenue recognition could result in deferral of revenues recognized in current periods to subsequent periods or accelerated recognition of deferred revenues to current periods, each of which could cause shortfalls in meeting the expectations of investors and securities analysts. Our stock price could decline as a result of any shortfall. For example, the adoption of SFAS 123(R), which requires compensation costs relating to share-based payment transactions to be recognized in financial statements beginning in January 2006, had a financial impact on our results of operations and loss per share. 15 Accounting policies affecting many other aspects of our business, including rules relating to revenue recognition and purchase accounting for business combinations have recently been revised or are under review. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. We are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate their internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning as early as fiscal 2008. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. We expect to incur increased expense and to devote additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. In the event our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions of our company may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional costs. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and recent SEC and NASDAQ rules and regulations, are creating new duties and requirements for us and our executives, directors, attorneys and independent registered public accounting firm. In order to comply with these rules, we will have to incur additional costs for personnel and use additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, which will increase our operating expenses. Management time associated with these compliance efforts necessarily reduces time available for other operating activities, which could adversely affect operating results. To date, our costs to comply with these rules have not been significant; however, we cannot predict or estimate the amount of future additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Our products may have errors or defects that users identify after deployment, which could harm our reputation and our business. Our products may contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found errors in versions of our products, and we may find errors in our products in the future. The occurrence of errors could cause sales of our products to decline, divert the attention of management and engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. Customer relations problems could damage our reputation, hinder market acceptance of our products and result in loss of future revenues. We must continually attract and retain engineering personnel, or we will be unable to execute our business strategy. Our strategy for encouraging the adoption of our technology requires that we employ highly skilled engineers to develop our products and work with our customers. In the past, we have experienced difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled engineers with appropriate qualifications to support our business. As a result, our future success depends in part on our ability to identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified engineering personnel. Competition for qualified engineers is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley where our headquarters are located. If we lose the services of a significant number of our engineers and we cannot hire and integrate additional engineers, it could disrupt our ability to develop our products and implement our business strategy. We may be unable to replace the technical, sales, marketing and managerial contributions of key individuals. We depend on our senior executives, and our research and development, sales and marketing personnel, who are critical to our business. We do not have long-term employment agreements with our key employees nor do we maintain a key person life insurance policy on any of our key employees. If we lose the services of any of these key executives, our product development processes and sales efforts could be slowed. We may also incur increased operating expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior executives to search for their replacements. The integration of any executives or new personnel could disrupt our ongoing operations. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenues or increase our costs. Our success and ability to compete depend largely upon the protection of our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, and our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as U.S. laws. Any patents we obtain or license may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around any patents issued to us or our other intellectual property rights. 16 Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights and incur substantial unexpected operating costs. We may need to take legal action to enforce our proprietary rights in the future. Any action we take to protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention. In addition, failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity and our ability to compete effectively. Any dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property could include our industry partners and customers, which could trigger our indemnification obligations to them and result in substantial expense to us. In any dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property, our licensees could also become the target of litigation. This could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our license agreements which could result in substantial expenses. In addition to the time and expense required for us to support or indemnify our licensees, any such litigation could severely disrupt or shut down the business of our licensees, which in turn could hurt our relations with our customers and cause our revenues to decrease. Failure to obtain export licenses could harm our business. We must comply with U.S. Department of Commerce regulations in shipping our software and hardware products and other technologies outside the United States. Although we have not had any significant difficulty complying with these regulations to date, any significant future difficulty in complying could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We have limited control over third-party representatives who market, sell and support our products in foreign markets. Loss of these relationships could decrease our revenues and harm our business. We offer our products and services for sale through distributors and sales representatives in Great China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Japan, Korea and the United Kingdom (UK). We anticipate that sales in these markets will account for a portion of our total revenues in future periods. In 2005, we appointed a sales representative in Israel and distributors in France and the UK. In 2006, we appointed a sales representative in India. In 2007, we appointed a new distributor in Japan, augmenting our direct sales organization. Our third-party representatives are not obligated to continue selling our products, and they may terminate their arrangements with limited prior notice. Growing our relationship with these new distributors and sales representatives, or establishing alternative distribution channels in these markets could consume substantial management time and resources, decrease our revenues and increase our expenses. We face business, political and economic risks because a portion of our revenues and operations are outside of the United States. International revenues accounted for 24%, 16% and 18% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition to our international sales, we have operations in Canada, Japan and the UK. Our success depends upon continued expansion of our international operations, and we expect that international revenues will continue to be an important component of our total future revenues. Our international business involves a number of risks, including: our ability to adapt our products to foreign design methods and practices; the uncertainty of international orders due to typically lengthy international selling cycles; cultural differences in the conduct of business; difficulty in attracting qualified personnel; managing foreign branch offices and subsidiaries; longer payment cycles for and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, royalties and withholding taxes that restrict the repatriation of earnings; tariffs and other trade barriers; the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; and political, economic, health or military conditions associated with worldwide conflicts and events. As a result of our direct selling activities in Japan, a portion of our international revenues is denominated in Japanese yen, which is subject to exposure from movements in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, most of our remaining international revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, creating a risk that fluctuation in currency exchange rates will make our prices uncompetitive. To the extent that profit is generated or losses are incurred in foreign countries, our effective income tax rate may be significantly affected. Any of these factors could significantly harm our future international sales and, consequently, our revenues and overall results of operations and business and financial condition. 17 We may be unable to consummate future potential acquisitions or investments or successfully integrate acquired businesses or investments or foreign operations with our business, which may disrupt our business, divert management’s attention and slow our ability to expand the range of our proprietary technologies and products. We may expand the range of our proprietary technologies and products, acquire or make investments in additional complementary businesses, technologies or products, if appropriate opportunities arise. For example, in 2004, we completed the acquisition of SiVerion, Inc. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates at reasonable prices or on reasonable terms, or consummate future acquisitions or investments, each of which could slow our growth strategy. Our acquisition of SiVerion, Inc. and any future acquisitions may involve risks such as the following: we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions; our acquisition and integration costs may be higher than we anticipated and may cause our quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate; we may be unable to retain key employees, such as management, technical or sales personnel, of the acquired businesses; we may experience difficulty and expense in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, which could be further affected by the acquired businesses not being located near our existing sites; we may incur amortization or impairment expenses if an acquisition results in significant goodwill or other intangible assets; we may be unable to complete the development and application of the acquired technology or products or integrate the technology or products with our own; we may be exposed to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; we may experience difficulties in establishing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; our relationships with key customers of acquired businesses may be impaired, due to changes in management and ownership of the acquired businesses; or our stockholders may be diluted if we pay for the acquisition with equity securities. These factors could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses or otherwise harm our operating results. Intellectual property litigation, which is common in our industry, could be costly, harm our reputation, limit our ability to license or sell our proprietary technologies or products and divert the attention of management and technical personnel. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. While we have not received formal notice of any infringement of the rights of any third party, questions of infringement in the semiconductor field involve highly technical and subjective analyses. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce any patents we may receive and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, and we may not prevail in any future litigation. Any such litigation, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, could be costly, could harm our reputation and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from normal business operations. Adverse determinations in litigation could result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from licensing our technology or selling our products, any of which could harm our business. Our stock price may decline significantly because of stock market fluctuations that affect the prices of technology stocks. A decline in our stock price could result in securities class action litigation against us that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock market has experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations that have adversely affected the market prices of common stock of technology companies. These broad market fluctuations may reduce the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company after periods of volatility in the market price of securities. In the future, we may be a target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which in turn could harm our ability to execute our business plan. 18 Our stock may fail to meet the requirements for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market, in which case the price and liquidity of our common stock may decline. The reverse stock split of our common stock may reduce the liquidity of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline. Because we failed to comply with the $1.00 minimum bid price rule set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) for continued listing on The Nasdaq Global Market, we applied to transfer our common stock to The Nasdaq Capital Market. Our common stock began trading on The Nasdaq Capital Market on October 24, 2007. The transfer of our common stock to The Nasdaq Capital Market could adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are subject to the continued listing requirements of The Nasdaq Capital Market and were provided an additional 180 calendar days (until April 7, 2008) to comply with the $1.00 minimum closing bid price continued listing requirement of The Nasdaq Capital Market. In order to regain compliance with this requirement, the bid price of our common stock must close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. We cannot assure you that the bid price of our common stock will close at $1.00 per share or more before April 7, 2008. Effective March 12, 2008, we implemented a 1-for-2.5 reverse stock split of our common stock. We cannot assure you that, as a result of the reverse stock split, the bid price of our common stock will close at $1.00 per share or more before April 7, 2008. Even if we are able to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement before April 7, 2008, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. If we fail to regain and maintain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement and are delisted, our financial condition could be harmed and our stock price would likely decline. The reverse stock split reduced the number if shares of our common stock outstanding, which could adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from growing. We believe that our existing cash resources and available debt financing will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, the timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including: the level and timing of license and service revenues; the costs and timing of expansion of product development efforts and the success of these development efforts; the extent to which our existing and new products gain market acceptance; the costs and timing of expansion of sales and marketing activities; competing technological and marketing developments; the extent of international operations; the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements; the costs involved in maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; the existence of opportunities for expansion and for acquisitions of, investments in, complementary businesses, technologies or product lines; and access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, this would significantly limit our ability to hire, train or retain employees, support our expansion, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities such as acquisitions of businesses or technologies, develop or enhance products, or respond to competitive pressures. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 