RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Brazil Brazilian political and economic conditions could affect our business and the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. The Brazilian government’s economic policies have in the past involved, among other measures, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by these economic policies should they be reinstated. These and other measures could also affect the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. Fluctuations in the value of the Brazilian real against foreign currencies may result in uncertainty in the Brazilian economy and the Brazilian securities market, and they could have a material adverse effect on our net income and cash flow. In recent years, the Brazilian real has fluctuated against foreign currencies, and the value of the real may rise or decline substantially from current levels. For several years, and continuing through the first half of 2008, the Brazilian real strengthened regularly against the U.S. dollar. The real depreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar in the second half of 2008, but then appreciated against the U.S. dollar in 2009 in the context of broader economic recovery in Brazil. For additional information about historical exchange rates and the impact of the depreciation of the real, see “Item 3. Key Information – Exchange Rates.” Depreciation of the real increases the cost of servicing our foreign currency-denominated debt and the cost of purchasing electricity from the Itaipu power plant, a hydroelectric facility that is one of our major suppliers and that adjusts electricity prices based in part on its U.S. dollar costs. Depreciation of the real also creates additional inflationary pressures in Brazil that may negatively affect us. Depreciation generally curtails access to international capital markets and may prompt government intervention. It also reduces the U.S. dollar value of our dividends and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the market price of our common shares and the ADSs. If Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, our margins and the market price of the Class B Shares and ADSs may be reduced. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation. More recently, Brazil’s annual rates of inflation, measured in accordance with the variation of the Índice Geral de Preços — Disponibilidade Interna (“IGP-DI”) index, were 3.8% in 2006, 7.9% in 2007, 9.1% in 2008, (1.4)% in 2009, and 2.8% for the three months ended March, 31, 2010. The Brazilian government has in the past taken measures to combat inflation, and public speculation about possible future government actions have had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. Although our concession contracts provide for annual readjustments based on inflation indices, if Brazil experiences substant ial inflation in the future, and the Brazilian government adopts inflation control policies similar to those adopted in the past, our costs may increase faster than our revenues, our operating and net margins may decrease and, if investor confidence lags, the price of the Class B Shares and ADSs may fall. Inflationary pressures may also curtail our ability to access foreign financial markets and may lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that may adversely affect the overall performance of the Brazilian economy. Changes in Brazilian tax policies may have an adverse effect on us. The Brazilian government has changed its tax policies in ways that affect the electricity sector, and it is likely to do so again in the future. These changes include increases in the tax rates affecting energy companies and, occasionally, the collection of temporary taxes related to specific governmental purposes. If we are unable to adjust our tariffs accordingly, we may be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents Political instability surrounding the upcoming presidential election in Brazil could adversely affect our results of operations and the price of our Class B shares and ADSs The next presidential election in Brazil is scheduled for October 2010, and we cannot guarantee that the next administration will maintain the economic policies that were adopted by the current administration. If the Brazilian government were to make significant changes to current economic policy, these changes could adversely affect our results of operations, the market price of our Class B shares and ADSs, as well as the Brazilian economy generally. In addition, uncertainty concerning the results of the election and speculation surrounding actions of the future government could influence the perception of risk in Brazil among international investors, which could in turn adversely affect the market price of our Class B shares and ADSs. The market prices of Brazilian companies have been volatile during past presidential elections. Risks Relating to Our Operations We are controlled by the State of Paraná, and government policy could have a material adverse effect on us and on our business. We are controlled by the State of Paraná, which holds 58.6% of our outstanding common voting shares as of the date of this annual report, and whose interests may differ from other shareholders. As a major shareholder, the State of Paraná has the power to control all of our operations, including the power to elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors and determine the outcome of any action requiring common shareholder approval, including transactions with related parties and corporate reorganizations. Government policies undertaken by the State of Paraná in accordance with federal law could have a material adverse effect on us and our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. We are largely dependent upon the economy of the State of Paraná. Our distribution market for the majority of our sales of electricity is located in the State of Paraná. Although a more competitive market involving possible sales to customers outside Paraná might develop in the future, our business depends and is expected to continue to depend to a very large extent on the economic conditions of Paraná. We cannot assure you that economic conditions in Paraná will be favorable to us in the future. The GDP (Gross Domestic Product) of the State of Paraná decreased 0.5% in 2009, while Brazil’s GDP decreased 0.2% during the same period. We are involved in several lawsuits that could have a material adverse effect on our business if their outcome is unfavorable to us. As a result of our operating activities in the electric energy sector, our contractual relationships and our investments, we are the defendant in several legal actions, mainly relating to civil, administrative, labor and tax claims. The outcome of these proceedings is uncertain and, if determined against us, may result in obligations that could materially affect our results of operations. For additional information, see “Item 8. Financial Information – Legal Proceedings.” The development of power generation projects is subject to substantial risks. In connection with the development of a generation project, we generally must obtain feasibility studies, governmental concessions or authorizations, permits and approvals, condemnation agreements, equipment supply agreements, engineering, procurement and construction contracts, sufficient equity and debt financing and site agreements, each of which involves third parties over which we have no control. In addition, project development is subject to environmental, engineering and construction risks that can lead to cost overruns, delays and other impediments to timely complete within a project’s budget. We cannot assure you that all required permits and approvals for our projects will be obtained, that we will be able to secure private sector partners for any of our projects, that we or any of our partners will be able to obtain adequate financing for our projects or that financing will be available on a non-recourse basis to us. If we are unable to complete a project, whether at the initial development phase or after construction has commenced, we may not be able to recover our investment in such a project, which may be substantial. 8 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Brazilian Electricity Sector We are uncertain as to the renewal of our concessions. We carry out our generation, transmission and distribution activities pursuant to concession agreements entered into with the Brazilian federal government. Our current concessions range in duration from 20 to 35 years, with the first set to expire in 2015. Thirteen of our generation concessions have already been renewed once and are therefore not entitled to further renewal without undergoing a public bidding process, pursuant to applicable law. The concessions for three of our generation facilities will expire in 2015 (namely, the Capivari Cachoeira, Mourão and Chopim I facilities). Our generation concessions that have not yet been renewed may be renewed for an additional 20-year period, except for the concession of the Mauá facility, which is subject to a non-renewable concession. Our main transmission and our distribution concessions will expire in July 2015 and may be extended another 20 years, at the discretion of the granting authority. Our other transmission concessions may be renewed for 30 years. The Brazilian constitution requires that all concessions relating to public services, such as electricity, be awarded through a bidding process. Under laws and regulations specific to the electric sector, the federal government may renew existing concessions for additional periods, provided that the concessionaire has met minimum performance standards and that the proposal is otherwise acceptable to the federal government. For public service concessions, the federal government decides whether to renew contracts or to require a new bidding process based on, among other things, the public interest. Therefore, there can be no assurance that our concessions will be extended, and, if they are extended, the conditions under which such extension will be granted. If our concessions are not extended, or are extended under less favorable conditions, our operations and financi al results may be adversely affected. The tariffs that we charge for sales of electricity to captive customers are determined pursuant to a concession agreement with the Brazilian government through ANEEL, and our operating revenues could be adversely affected if ANEEL makes decisions relating to our tariffs that are unfavorable to us. Moreover, ANEEL’S decisions may be contested in judicial or administrative proceedings initiated by public authorities or customers. ANEEL has substantial discretion to establish the tariff rates we charge our customers. Our tariffs are determined pursuant to a concession agreement with ANEEL and in accordance with ANEEL’s regulatory decision-making authority. Our distribution concession agreement and Brazilian law establish a price cap mechanism that permits three types of tariff adjustments: (i) annual readjustment (reajuste anual), (ii) periodic revision (revisão periódica), and (iii) extraordinary revision (revisão extraordinária). We are entitled to apply each year for the annual readjustment, which is designed to offset some effects of inflation on tariffs and pass through to customers certain changes in our cost structure that are beyond our control, such as the cost of electricity we purchase from certain sources and certain other regulatory charges, including charges for the use of transmission facilities. In addition, ANEEL carries out a periodic revision every four years that is aimed at identifying variations in our costs as well as setting a factor based on our operational efficiency that will be applied against the index of our ongoing annual tariff readjustments, the effect of which is to ensure that we share the benefits of improved economies of scale with our customers. We may also request an extraordinary revision of our tariffs in the case of a significant and unpredictable event, including if such an event significantly alters our cost structure. We cannot assure you that ANEEL will establish tariffs at rates that are favorable to us. In addition, to the extent that any of these adjustments are not granted by ANEEL in a timely manner, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents In addition, ANEEL’s decisions relating to our tariffs may be contested by public authorities or by our customers. Administrative and judicial decisions resulting from these challenges may modify ANEEL’s decisions in a manner that is unfavorable to us, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Certain customers in our concession area may cease to use our distribution system. Our distribution business generates a large portion of its revenues by charging customers a tariff to use its distribution system. Large electricity customers within the geographic area of our concession that meet certain regulatory requirements may qualify as Free Customers (“Free Customers”). A Free Customer, under some circumstances, is entitled to connect directly to the main national transmission network known as the Interconnected Transmission System (“Interconnected Transmission System”), in which case that Free Customer would cease to pay our distribution tariff. This loss may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In addition, some customers in our concession area produce their own energy. Although many of these customers continue to use our distribution system to transport the energy they produce, we cease to collect a distribution tariff if a self-producing customer discontinues its use of our distribution system. Our results of operations will be adversely affected if the number of self-producing customers that do not pay our distribution tariff were to increase. Our operating results depend on prevailing hydrological conditions and the availability of natural gas. The impact of an electricity shortage and related electricity rationing, as in 2001 and 2002, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent on the prevailing hydrological conditions in the geographic region in which we operate. In 2009, according to data from the National Electric System Operator (“ONS”), more than 68% of Brazil’s installed capacity came from hydroelectric generation facilities. Our region is subject to unpredictable hydrological conditions, with non-cyclical deviations from average rainfall. The most recent period of low rainfall was in the years prior to 2001, when the Brazilian government instituted the Rationing Program, a program to reduce electricity consumption that was in effect from June 1, 2001 to February 28, 2002. A recurrence of poor hydrological conditions that result in a low supply of electricity to the Brazilian market could cause, among other things, the implementation of broad electricity conservation programs, including mandated reductions in electricity consumption. We cannot assure you that periods of severe or sustained below-average rainfall will not adversely affect our future financial results. Similarly, if a shortage of natural gas were to occur, this would increase the general demand for energy in the market and therefore increase the risk that a rationing program would be instated. We are subject to comprehensive regulation of our business, which fundamentally affects our financial performance. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by various Brazilian regulatory authorities, particularly ANEEL. ANEEL regulates and oversees various aspects of our business and establishes our tariffs. If we are obliged by ANEEL to make additional and unexpected capital investments and are not allowed to adjust our tariffs accordingly, or if ANEEL modifies the regulations related to such adjustment, we may be adversely affected. In addition, the implementation of our growth strategy, as well as the ordinary carrying out of our business may be adversely affected by governmental actions such as changes to current legislation, the termination of federal or state concession programs, the creation of more exacting criteria for qualification in future public energy auctions, or a delay in the revision and implementation of new annual tariffs. If we are required to conduct our business in a manner substantially different from our current operations as a result of regulatory changes, our operations and financial results may be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents The regulatory framework under which we operate is subject to legal challenge. The Brazilian government implemented fundamental changes in regulation of the power industry under 2004 legislation known as the New Industry Model Law (Lei do Novo Modelo do Setor Elétrico). Challenges to the constitutionality of the New Industry Model Law are still pending before the Brazilian Supreme Court. If all or part of the New Industry Model Law were held to be unconstitutional, it would have uncertain consequences for the validity of existing regulation and the further development of the regulatory framework. The outcome of the leg al proceedings is difficult to predict, but they could have an adverse impact on the entire energy sector, including our business and results of operations. We may be forced to purchase energy in the spot market at higher prices if our forecasts for energy demand are not accurate, and we may not be entitled to pass on any increased costs to our final customers. Under the New Industry Model Law, electric energy distributors, including us, must contract to purchase, through public bids conducted by ANEEL, 100% of the forecasted electric energy demand for their respective distribution concession areas, up to five years prior to the actual delivery of electric energy. If our forecasts fall significantly short of actual electricity demand, we may be forced to make up for the shortfall by entering into short-term agreements to purchase electricity in the spot market. We cannot guarantee that our forecasts for energy demand in our distribution concession area will be accurate, and if they are not, we may face significantly higher prices in the spot market to satisfy our electric energy distribution obligations, as well as penalties imposed by the Electric Energy Trading Chamber, Câmara de Comercialização de Energia Elétrica (“CCEE”). In addition, if our forecasts surpass actual demand by more than the allowed margin, we will not be able to pass on to our final customers the cost of the excess energy that we acquire. We generate a portion of our operating revenues from Free Customers who may seek other energy suppliers upon the expiration of their contracts with us. During 2009, Copel Geração e Transmissão provided electricity to a total of 14 Free Customers. As of December 31, 2009 we had 10 Free Customers representing approximately 1.9% of our gross operating revenues from energy sales and approximately 2.4% of the total quantity of electricity sold by us. Approximately 15.9% of the megawatts sold under contract to such customers are set to expire in 2010. There can be no assurance that, upon the expiration of these contracts, the Free Customers will purchase energy from us. Our equipment, facilities and operations are subject to numerous environmental and health regulations which may become more stringent in the future and may result in increased liabilities and increased capital expenditures. Our distribution, transmission and generation activities are subject to comprehensive federal, state and local legislation, as well as supervision by Brazilian governmental agencies that are responsible for the implementation of environmental and health laws and policies. These agencies could take enforcement action against us for our failure to comply with their regulations and with requirements established for the maintenance of our environmental licenses. These actions could include, among other things, the imposition of fines and revocation of licenses. It is possible that enhanced environmental and health regulations will force us to allocate capital towards compliance, and consequently, divert funds away from planned investments. Such a diversion could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ANEEL could penalize us for failing to comply with the terms of our concessions or with applicable laws and regulations, and we may not recover the full value of our investment in the event that any of our concessions are terminated. Our concessions are for terms of 20 to 35 years and may be extended if certain conditions are met. In the event that we fail to comply with any term of our concessions or applicable law or regulation, ANEEL may impose penalties on us, which may include warnings, the imposition of substantial fines (in some instances, up to two percent of our revenues in the fiscal year immediately preceding the assessment) and restrictions on our operations, among others. ANEEL may also terminate our concessions prior to the expiration of their terms if we fail to comply with their provisions or if ANEEL determines, through an expropriation proceeding, that terminating our concession would be in the public interest. If ANEEL terminates any of our concessions before their expiration, we would not be a ble to operate the segment(s) of our business that had been authorized by the concession. Furthermore, any compensation that we may receive from the federal government for the unamortized portion of our investment may not be sufficient for us to recover the full value of our investment. The early termination or non-renewal of any of our concessions or the imposition of severe fines or penalties by ANEEL could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “The Brazilian Power Industry-Concessions.” 11 Table of Contents The construction, expansion and operation of our generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity facilities and equipment, involve significant risks that may cause loss of revenues or increase of expenses. The construction, expansion and operation of our generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity, facilities and equipment, involve many risks, including supply interruptions, strikes, climate and hydrological interference, unexpected environmental and engineering problems, increase in losses of electricity (including technical and commercial losses) and the unavailability of adequate financing. In the event we experience these or other problems, we might not be able to generate, transmit and distribute electricity in favorable quantities and on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our financial condition and the results of our operations. If we are unable to conclude our investment program proposed in the schedule foreseen, the operation and development of our business could be adversely affected. We plan to invest approximately R$ 499.7 million in our generation and transmission activities (including UHE Mauá), R$ 761.8 million in our distribution activities and R$ 81.4 million in our telecommunications activities in 2010. Our ability to complete this investment program depends on a series of factors, including our ability to charge appropriate fees for our services and a variety of regulatory and operational contingencies, among others. There is no assurance that we will have the financial resources to complete our proposed investment program, and our inability to do so may adversely affect the operation and development of our business, including the risk of fines levied by ANEEL, as well as reduction in tariff levels. Our reported financial condition and results could be adversely affected by changes in Brazilian accounting principles due to the convergence to IFRS. Brazilian accounting principles have been undergoing rapid change pursuant to legislation adopted late in 2007, requiring, among other things, that Brazilian accounting standard-setters move toward convergence with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). Changes that took effect in 2008 have been given effect for all periods presented in our audited consolidated financial statements and are described in Note 3 to the audited consolidated financial statements. Many new accounting standards have been adopted but have not yet taken effect, while others are expected in the near future. We cannot yet predict the effects on our financial statements that will result when these changes take effect. These effects could include reducing our reported revenues, operating income or net income, or adversely affecting our balance sheet. Such changes could adversely affect our compliance with financial covenants under our financing facilities. They could also reduce the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Two aspects of IFRS that we would like to point out, if they are adopted in Brazil, concern the recognition of regulatory assets and accounting for our concessions. Under Brazilian accounting principles and U.S. GAAP, we recognize as assets and liabilities certain amounts that we are legally entitled to collect, or are required to pay, respectively, in the future under the regulations applicable to our distribution business. Accounting for regulatory assets and liabilities in this way has a material effect on our reported financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” Currently, there are authoritative interpretations of IFRS that we believe might limit our ability to recognize these assets and liabilities, as well as the manner in which we account for our concessions. We and other sim ilarly situated Brazilian companies are discussing these issues with the Brazilian standard-setters and regulators, but we cannot predict the outcome of those discussions or the ultimate manner in which IFRS or Brazilian standards based on IFRS will apply to us. 12 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Class B Shares and ADSs As a holder of ADSs you will generally not have voting rights at our shareholders’ meetings. In accordance with Brazilian Corporate Law and our bylaws, holders of the Class B Shares, and thus of the ADSs, are not entitled to vote at our shareholders’ meetings except in limited circumstances. This means, among other things, that you, as a holder of the ADSs, are not entitled to vote on corporate transactions, including any proposed merger. In addition, in the limited circumstances where the holders of Class B Shares are entitled to vote, holders may exercise voting rights with respect to the Class B Shares represented by ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs. There are no provisions under Brazilian Corporate Law or under our bylaws that limit ADS holders’ ability to exercise their voting rights through the depositary bank (“Depositary”) with respect to the underlying Class B Shares. However, the procedural steps involved create practical limitations on the ability of ADS holders to vote. For example, holders of our Class B Shares will be able to exercise their voting rights by either attending the meeting in person or voting by proxy. In accordance with the deposit agreement, we will provide the notice to the Depositary, which wi ll in turn, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail to holders of ADSs the notice of such meeting and a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by holders. To exercise their voting rights, ADS holders must then instruct the Depositary how to vote their shares. Because of this extra procedural step involving the Depositary, the process for exercising voting rights will take longer for ADS holders than for holders of Class B Shares. ADSs for which the Depositary does not receive timely voting instructions will not be voted at any meeting. As a holder of ADSs you will have fewer and less well-defined shareholders’ rights in Brazil than in the United States and certain other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our bylaws and Brazilian Corporate Law, which may differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States or in certain other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Under Brazilian Corporate Law you and the holders of the Class B Shares may have fewer and less well-defined rights to protect your interests in connection with actions taken by our Board of Directors or the holders of Common Shares than under the laws of some jurisdictions outside Brazil. Although Brazilian law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, the Brazilian securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the United States securities markets or markets in certain other jurisdictions outside Brazil. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing and regarding the preservation of minority shareholder interests may be less developed and not enforced in Brazil than in the United States, which could potentially disadvantage you as a holder of the preferred shares and ADSs. In addition, shareholders in Brazilian companies must hold five percent of the outstanding share capital of a corporation in order to have standing to bring shareholders’ derivative suits, and shareholders in Brazilian companies ordinarily do not have standing to bring a class action suit. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights relating to the preferred shares. You will not be able to exercise the preemptive rights relating to the Class B Shares underlying your ADSs unless a registration statement under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. The Depositary will not offer rights to you as a holder of the ADSs unless the rights are either registered under provisions of the Securities Act or are subject to an exemption from the registration requirements. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares or other securities relating to these rights, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. Accordingly, you may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of your preemptive rights by the Dep ositary or, if the preemptive rights cannot be sold, they will be allowed to lapse. If you are unable to participate in rights offerings, your holdings may also be diluted. 13 Table of Contents If you exchange your ADSs for Class B Shares, you risk losing Brazilian tax advantages and the ability to remit foreign currency abroad. Brazilian law requires that parties obtain a certificate of registration from the Central Bank in order to be allowed to remit foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, abroad. For the ADSs, the Brazilian custodian for the Class B Shares has obtained the necessary certificate from the Central Bank for the payment of dividends or other cash distributions relating to the preferred shares or upon the disposition of the preferred shares. If you exchange your ADSs for the underlying Class B Shares, however, you may only rely on the custodian’s certificate for five business days from the date of exchange. Thereafter, you must obtain your own certificate of registration or register in accordance with Central Bank and CVM rules, in order to obtain and remit U.S. dollars abroad upon the disposition of the Class B Shares or distributions relating to the preferred shares. If you do not obtain a certificate of registration, you may not be able to remit U.S. dollars or other currencies abroad and may be subject to less favorable tax treatment on gains with respect to the preferred shares. Pursuant to Central Bank rules, obtaining this registration requires exchange transactions, which are subject to taxes in Brazil. For more information, see “– Taxation – Brazilian Tax Considerations – Other Brazilian Taxes.” If you attempt to obtain your own certificate of registration, you may incur expenses or suffer delays in the application process, which could delay your ability to receive dividends or distributions relating to the preferred shares or the return of your capital in a timely manner. The custodian’s certificate of registration and any certificate of foreign capital registration you obtain may be affected by future legislative changes. Additional restrictions may be imposed in the future on the disposition of the underlying Class B Shares or the repatriation of the proceeds from disposition. The Brazilian government may impose exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad which may adversely affect your ability to convert funds in reais into other currencies and to remit other currencies abroad. You may be adversely affected by the imposition of restrictions on the remittance to foreign investors of the proceeds of their investments in Brazil and the conversion of reais into foreign currencies. The Brazilian government could choose to impose this type of restrictions if there is deterioration in Brazilian foreign currency reserves or a shift in Brazil’s exchange rate policy. Reimposition of these restrictions would hinder or prevent your ability to convert dividends, distributions or the proceeds from any sale of Class B Shares, as the case may be, from reais into U.S. dollars or other currencies and to remit those funds abroad. We cannot assure you that the Brazilian government will not take similar measures in the future. The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may impair your ability to sell the Class B Shares underlying the ADSs. The Brazilian securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States and certain other jurisdictions outside Brazil, and are not as highly regulated or supervised as some of these other markets. The illiquidity and relatively small market capitalization of the Brazilian equity markets may cause the market price of securities of Brazilian companies, including our ADSs and Class B Shares, to fluctuate in both the domestic and international markets, and may substantially limit your ability to sell the Class B Shares underlying your ADSs at a price and time at which you wish to do so. 14 Table of Contents 