Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred losses in the past, and may incur losses in the future While we were profitable in 2005, we incurred losses in 2004 and 2003. In 2005, we had net income of approximately $1.4 million. We incurred net losses of approximately $3 million in 2004 and $6.8 million in 2003. We will need to generate revenues as well as manage our costs to maintain and increase profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain and/or increase profitability. Our gross margin is currently 53.6%. As a result, any decrease in sales will have a significant effect on our profitability. Our revenues may not grow or continue at their current level. In addition, our operating expenses may increase. Our decision to increase operating expenses and the scope of such increase will depend upon several factors, including the market situation. If our revenues do not increase as anticipated, or if our expenses increase at a greater pace than our revenues, we may not be profitable or, if we are profitable, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We may need to raise additional financing in the future. If adequate funds are not available on terms favorable to us, our operations and growth strategy will be materially adversely affected. On December 31, 2005, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $7.7 million. In 2005, we generated approximately $1.9 million in cash, mainly from operational activities. We will need to generate increased revenues as well as manage our costs in order to maintain and/or increase our cash. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain and/or increase our profitability and, as a result, we may need to raise additional financing to support our operations and our growth strategy. In 2006, we arranged for a line of credit from Bank Hapoalim in the amount of $1 million, which will expire on January 31, 2007. Prior to its expiration, we intend to renew this line of credit for an additional term of at least 12 months. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to do so. On March 15, 2006, we did not have any outstanding amount under this line of credit. The line of credit is conditioned upon our compliance with the following financial requirements during the term of the line of credit: (1) a floating charge on all assets; (2) total shareholders’ equity will not be less than $3 million and not less than 35% of our total balance sheet assets; and (3) total working capital, calculated as trade receivables and inventory less accounts payable, will not be less than $3 million. Although we currently are in compliance, if we do not satisfy these conditions in full, Bank Hapoalim may demand payment of the outstanding amount of the line of credit and may refuse to grant us further credit. 6 If we are unable to raise additional financing when needed on terms favorable to us, our operations and growth strategy will be materially adversely affected. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, a decrease in sales. Although our carrier and enterprise sales solutions increased in 2005 as compared with 2004 and 2003, there is no assurance that this growth will continue. The enterprise solutions market experienced a slow-down since the latter part of 2000 up to the beginning of 2004. This slowdown negatively affected our enterprise solutions sales beginning in 2002. Although sales of our enterprise solutions have increased since 2004, there is no assurance that this growth will continue. Our carrier solutions have been designed for sale to telephone companies, or telcos, which traditionally have made a relatively large portion of their equipment purchases during the fourth quarter of each year. Due to the telecommunications market slow-down, which began in the latter part of 2000, some telcos instituted budgetary freezes or postponements, which have deferred potential orders. This affected our financial results for 2002 and 2003. Although the telecommunications market began recovering and our carrier sales showed signs of improvement beginning in 2004, there is no assurance that this trend will continue in the future or that we will be able to achieve the same levels of sales. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance. Our quarterly results of operations may be subject to significant fluctuations due to several factors, including the size, timing and shipment of orders; customer budget cycles and budgetary freezes; the timing of introductions of new products or product upgrades by us and our competitors; customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products or product upgrades; the mix of product sales; software and hardware development problems; product quality problems; product pricing; our effective provision of customer support; the relatively low level of general business activity during the summer months in the European market; and other factors. Moreover, because end-users of our enterprise solutions typically request delivery within two weeks of placement of their orders (which generally follows extensive sales efforts over an extended period of time), a majority of our sales in each quarter have resulted from orders placed in that quarter. The deferral of any large order from one quarter to another could materially adversely affect our results of operations for the previous quarter. Similarly, carrier sales are relatively large orders, and their postponement from one quarter to another could materially adversely affect our results of operations for the previous quarter. For the foregoing reasons, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that our results of operations in any particular quarter should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Furthermore, fluctuations in our operating results may cause volatility in the price of our ordinary shares. We have a very limited order backlog. As a result, if revenue levels for any quarter fall below our expectations, our earnings will decrease. We have a very limited order backlog, which makes revenues in any quarter dependent primarily on orders received and delivered in that quarter. A delay in the recognition of revenue, even from one customer, may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. We base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends, and our expense levels are relatively fixed, or require some time for adjustment. Because only a small portion of our expenses varies with our revenues, if revenue levels fall below our expectations, our earnings will decrease. We depend upon independent distributors, representatives and strategic alliance partners to sell our products to customers. If our distributors, representatives and strategic alliance partners do not sell our products, our revenues will suffer. Outside the United States, we sell our enterprise solutions primarily to independent distributors, for resale to integrators, to strategic alliance partners or directly to end-users. In the United States, we sell such products and solutions primarily through integrators and distributors engaged by our wholly-owned subsidiary, RiT Technologies, Inc. We are highly dependent upon acceptance of our products and solutions by such distributors, strategic alliance partners and integrators and their active marketing and sales efforts relating to our products and solutions. Except for one affiliated distributor in Israel, the distributors to whom we sell our products and solutions are independent of us. Moreover, a substantial majority of our distributors are neither obligated to deal with us exclusively nor contractually subject to minimum purchase requirements with respect to our products and solutions. Increasing competition among providers of products or solutions competitive with ours has strengthened the position of our distributors and other customers to negotiate favorable terms of sale. Under such conditions, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. 7 Certain of our distributors are permitted to sell competing products or solutions, and there can be no assurance that any of them will continue, or prioritize, marketing and supporting our products or solutions. Certain of our distributors are the only entities engaged in the distribution of our products or solutions in their respective geographical areas. In addition to the independent distributors mentioned above, we also have strategic alliances with four major cabling companies: Panduit, Brand-Rex (recently acquired by The Gores Group LLC), Belden/CDT (previously known as Nordx) and ADC (previously known as Krone). We are highly dependent upon their acceptance of, and active marketing and sales efforts relating to, our products and solutions. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by changes in the financial condition of a distributor, representative or strategic alliance partner, which could occur rapidly, or by changes in the business or marketing strategies of the distributor, representative or strategic alliance partner. There can be no assurance that we will retain our current distributors, representatives or strategic alliance partners, or that, if we terminate or lose any of such distributors, representatives or strategic alliance partners, we will be successful in replacing them on a timely basis or at all with another suitable distributor, representative or strategic alliance partner. Any such changes in our distribution channels, and particularly the loss of a major distributor, representative or strategic alliance partner, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We depend on a major customer for a significant portion of our revenues. In 2005, more than 19% of our revenues was generated from orders placed by one major customer. In 2004, 13.8% of our revenues was generated from orders placed by another major customer. See Note 8B.1(c) to our Consolidated Financial Statements. If our largest customer does not continue to purchase similar quantities in the future and we are not able to replace these revenues with sales to other customers, our revenues and profitability will decline. Our carrier products generally have long sales cycles, which increase our costs in obtaining orders and reduce the predictability of our earnings. The market for our carrier solutions consists of telcos. Because of the large size and institutional nature of most telcos and the degree of governmental regulation to which they are often subject, companies (such as ourselves) which seek to market their products and services to telcos must often engage in sales efforts over an extended period of time, sometimes years, and provide a significant level of education to prospective telco customers regarding the use and benefits of such products or services. As a result, sales of carrier solutions to telcos require a lengthy sales cycle from the commencement of marketing efforts to the consummation of an actual transaction and may involve significant expenditures which may not be offset (on a timely basis or at any time) by revenues. The failure of our marketing efforts to bring in new customers could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must develop new products and enhancements to existing products on a timely and cost-effective basis to remain competitive. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, changing customer requirements, relatively short product lifecycles, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. Changes in technologies, customer requirements and industry standards and new product introductions by our existing competitors or by new market entrants could reduce the markets for our products or require us to develop new products. In addition, new or enhanced products developed by other companies could be incompatible with our products. For example, the successful development and widespread deployment of wireless communications systems could have a material adverse effect upon our ability to sell our enterprise solutions or carrier solutions. Therefore, our timely access to information concerning, and our ability to anticipate, changes in technology and customer requirements and the emergence of new industry standards, as well as our ability to develop, manufacture and market new and enhanced products successfully and on a timely basis, will be significant factors in our ability to remain competitive. We are currently evaluating a number of potential products, some of which will endeavor to address emerging technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying new technologies, that our potential products will be successful or profitable, or that we will not encounter technical or other difficulties that could delay the introduction of these or other new or enhanced products in the future. As a result of the need to develop new and enhanced products, we expect to continue making substantial investments in research and development. Some of our research and development activities may relate to long-term projects, and revenues from products resulting from these activities may not be received for a substantial time, or at all. Products as complex as certain of our products sometimes contain undetected errors or “bugs,” which can cause delays in product introductions or require design modifications. In addition, it often takes several months before the manufacturing costs of new products stabilize, which may adversely affect operating results during such period. If we are unable to introduce new or enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis and to gain market acceptance for such products, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 8 Some of our competitors have greater resources than us, which may limit our ability to effectively compete with them. The markets for our products and solutions are very competitive and we expect that competition will increase in the future. Increased direct and indirect competition could adversely affect our revenues and profitability through pricing pressure, loss of market share and other factors. Many of our competitors are far larger, have substantially greater resources (including financial, technological, manufacturing and marketing and distribution capabilities) and are much more widely recognized than we are. These characteristics may provide a substantial advantage to our competitors in the eyes of end-users of enterprise and carrier solutions, who typically rely upon such products and solutions to perform or support critical functions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors as the market for our products and solutions evolves and the level of competition increases. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to differentiate our products and solutions from the products and solutions of our competitors or to develop or introduce successfully new products and solutions that are less costly or offer better performance than those of our competitors. In addition, our existing and prospective competitors may have established, or may establish in the future, relationships with our existing and potential customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete. Our failure to manage our expansion or contraction effectively could impair our business. From 1989 to 2000, we expanded in both the scope and the magnitude of our operations. However, from 2001 until 2004, we instituted work force reductions and cost cutting measures following decreased sales. In 2005, we increased our operational expenses as a result of a significant increase in our revenues. This growth placed a significant strain on our management, operational, financial and other resources. Any future growth or contraction may increase this strain. Furthermore, all or a portion of the expenses associated with any expansion of our operations may be incurred prior to the generation of any associated revenues, and the savings associated with cutbacks may not be realized prior to the decrease in associated revenues. If there is a substantial increase in demand in, or orders for, our products, we may not have the capacity to increase production using our existing reduced staff and may be unable to timely hire and train new employees. As a result, we could lose business to competitors with greater capacity and flexibility. If we are unable to manage our corporate expansion or contraction, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If our suppliers and subcontractors are not able to provide us with adequate supplies of certain components used in our products, we may not be able to deliver sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy demand. Certain components used in our products and solutions are presently available from, or supplied by, only one source and certain other components are only available from limited sources. Although we do not have long-term supply contracts with most of our existing suppliers, we have generally been able to obtain supplies of components in a timely manner and upon acceptable terms. There can be no assurance that delays in key component or product deliveries will not occur in the future due to shortages resulting from the limited number of suppliers or the financial condition or other difficulties of such suppliers. Any inability to obtain sufficient key components or to develop alternative sources for such components, if and as required in the future, could result in delays, interruptions or reductions in product shipments, which could have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships and, in turn, on our business and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified sales, technical and customer support personnel. To manage future growth effectively, we must expand our operational, management and financial functions; train, motivate, manage and retain our employees; and hire additional personnel. In Israel, where our manufacturing, research and development, marketing and sales facilities are located, there continues to be demand for qualified hardware and software engineers and sales personnel with specific fields of expertise, and the competition to attract and retain such engineers and personnel is strong. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, training, assimilating or retaining, on a timely basis and at a reasonable cost, all the personnel that we may require, or that we will not encounter difficulties as we integrate new personnel into our operations. Our inability to integrate such personnel into our operations or to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Our profitability could suffer if third parties infringe upon our proprietary technology or if our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our success is highly dependent upon our proprietary technology. We rely upon a combination of patents, patent applications, contractual rights, trade secrets, copyrights, non-disclosure agreements and technical measures to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products, systems and technologies. We hold patents on our PatchView and PairView technologies and some of our cabling products. These patents expire in 2012, 2015 and 2020, respectively. We also have several patents and design patents pending on our new products. In addition, we enter into nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees and with certain suppliers and customers with access to sensitive information. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or independent development or sale by others of our technology or of products or solutions with features based upon, or otherwise similar to, our own. In addition, although we believe that our technology has been independently developed and that none of our technology or intellectual property infringes on the rights of others, there can be no assurance that we do not and will not so infringe or that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. In the case of infringement, we would, under certain circumstances, be required to modify our products or intellectual property or obtain a license to permit their continued use. There can be no assurance that we would be able to do either in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms and conditions, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if future litigation were to become necessary to protect trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary rights owned by us, to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others, or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others, such litigation could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our management’s attention. Adverse determinations in any such litigation or proceedings also could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain of our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we will have the resources to defend or prosecute a proprietary rights infringement action. In addition, the laws of foreign jurisdictions where we sell and seek to sell our products may afford little or no protection of our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that the protection provided to our intellectual property rights by the laws and courts of foreign nations will be substantially similar to the remedies available under U.S. law. We also cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us based on foreign intellectual property rights and laws that are different from those established in the United States. The conditions in the many countries in which we sell our products could affect our ability to deliver our products or collect payment. We currently market our products and solutions in numerous countries and are subject to many risks associated with international sales, including limitations and disruptions resulting from the imposition of government controls, national standardization and certification requirements, export license requirements, economic or political instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs, currency fluctuations and difficulties in managing international operations. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver our products, solutions and services on a competitive and timely basis, or to collect payments from customers in these countries and on our results of operations. Although we have not yet encountered significant difficulties in connection with the sale of our products and solutions in international markets, there is no assurance that we will not encounter such difficulties in the future or that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to new European regulations that will require us to use components based on environmentally friendly materials. Compliance with these regulations may increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to new telecommunications industry regulations requiring the use of “environmentally friendly” materials in equipment. For example, commencing July 1, 2006, pursuant to a European Community directive, producers of electrical and electronic equipment may not place new equipment containing lead, mercury and certain other materials deemed to be hazardous, in amounts exceeding any relevant set maximum concentration values, on the market in the European Union. We will be dependent on our suppliers for components and sub-system modules to comply with these requirements. 10 Compliance with this directive, especially with respect to the requirement that products be lead free, will require us to undertake significant expenses with respect to the re-design of our products. In addition, we may be required to pay higher prices for components that comply with this directive. We may not be able to pass these higher component costs on to our customers. We cannot at this point estimate the expense that will be required to redesign our products in order to include “environmentally friendly” components. We cannot be sure that we will be able to timely comply with these regulations, that we will be able to comply on a cost effective basis or that a sufficient supply of compliant components will be available to us. Compliance with these regulations could increase our product design costs. Our inability or failure to comply with these regulations may restrict us from conducting certain business in the European Union and could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition, manufacturers of components that we use in our products that do not comply with these regulations may decide to stop manufacturing these components prior to the July 2006 compliance date. These actions by manufacturers of components could result in a shortage of components that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be subject to possible warranty claims from our customers. Our product warranties permit customers to return for repair any products deemed to be defective. It is our policy to grant a warranty for periods ranging from 12 to 36 months. This policy does not apply to the SMART Cabling System, SMART GIGA Cabling System and CLASSix Cabling Systems, which when installed by a certified cabling installer, and registered by us, are granted 15-year and 20-year system warranties, respectively. These warranty periods are customary in the structured cabling industry, but significantly longer than product warranties generally offered in other industries. Although no material warranty claims have been asserted against us in the past with respect to our structured cabling products, we cannot assure you that such claims will not be asserted in the future. If asserted, such claims may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Changes in exchange rates between currencies may negatively impact our costs. Most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars or are dollar-linked. We collect a portion of our revenues in Europe in Euros. We incur a material portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, in Israel, in NIS. As a result, we are exposed to several risks, including that either the NIS or the Euro may increase in value relative to the dollar. If either of such events occurs, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel or Europe will increase and our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. In 2005, there was an increase in value of the dollar in relation to the NIS of 7% and there was an increase in the value of the dollar in relation to the Euro of 15%. Although these trends did not materially affect us, we cannot assure you that we will not be materially adversely affected in the future from currency exchange rate fluctuations or the rate of inflation in Israel. If the value of the NIS or the Euro rises in value relative to the dollar, our business and financial condition could be negatively impacted. We may be affected by transactions with related parties from the RAD-BYNET Group. We are engaged in transactions with affiliates of the RAD-BYNET Group, companies controlled by Yehuda Zisapel and Zohar Zisapel, individuals who own more than 31% of our outstanding ordinary shares. We believe that such transactions are beneficial to us and are conducted upon terms, which are no less favorable to us than would be available to us from unaffiliated third parties. We may continue to engage in transactions with such affiliates on such bases and terms. See “Item 7.B. –Related Party Transactions.” Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has decreased significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our ordinary shares has been volatile. The market price for our ordinary shares had a historical downward trend from 2000 until 2003. Although prices were more stable during 2003, 2004 and 2005, there can be no assurance that we will not return to our previous volatility and downward trend. If revenues or earnings in any quarter fail to meet the investment community’s expectations, there could be an immediate impact on our share price. Our share price may also be affected by broader market trends or the economic and political situation in the Middle East and worldwide. A substantial decrease in market price of our ordinary shares could frustrate our efforts to raise funds through both debt and equity, discourage potential customers and partners from doing business with us, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not satisfy the Nasdaq Capital Market’s (formerly known as the Nasdaq SmallCap Market) requirements for continued listing. If we cannot satisfy these requirements, Nasdaq could delist our ordinary shares. We became a publicly traded company and began trading on the Nasdaq National Market upon our initial public offering in July 1997. In November 2003, we received notice from Nasdaq that we were not in compliance with the requirement to have stockholders’ equity of at least $10 million in order to be listed in the Nasdaq National Market. As a result, in December 2003, we elected to apply to transfer the listing of our ordinary shares to the Nasdaq Capital Market. The transfer took effect in January 2004. 11 To continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, we will need to satisfy a number of conditions, including a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share, a market value of our publicly held shares, or MVPHS, of at least $1 million and stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million. We cannot assure you that we will continue to satisfy the minimum bid, MVPHS, stockholders’ equity or other continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market in the future. If we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading in our ordinary shares may be conducted in, if available, the “OTC Bulletin Board Service” or, if available, another medium. In the event of such delisting, an investor would likely find it significantly more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the value of our ordinary shares, and our ability to raise future capital through the sale of our ordinary shares could be severely limited. For details of the high and low market price of our shares over recent years see “Item 9 – Offer and Listing” under the caption “Share Price History. “ In addition, if our ordinary shares were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, our ordinary shares could be considered a “penny stock” under the U.S. federal securities laws. Additional regulatory requirements apply to trading by broker-dealers of penny stocks that could result in the loss of an effective trading market for our ordinary shares. The sale of a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the expectation thereof, could materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise capital through an offering of securities. In connection with the private placement transaction we completed on July 26, 2004, we issued 5,064,129 of our ordinary shares and warrants to purchase an additional 1,266,032 ordinary shares. We registered the resale of the ordinary shares, and the resale of the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants, and are required to keep the registration statement effective through July 26, 2009. As of December 31, 2005, 150,001 of these warrants had been exercised. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, options to purchase a total of 2,104,699 ordinary shares were outstanding, and an additional 384,333 ordinary shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to options which may be granted under our stock option plans. All shares issued upon the exercise of these options will be immediately available for sale in the public market, subject to Rule 144 limitations applicable to our affiliates. Sales of the ordinary shares issued in the private placement, sales of the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants or options, or even the prospect of such sales, could materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise capital through our offering of securities at acceptable prices. A substantial decrease in the market price of our ordinary shares could frustrate our efforts to raise funds through both debt and equity, discourage potential customers and partners from doing business with us, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Following the implementation of SFAS No. 123R, we will be required to record a compensation expense in connection with share based compensation, and, as a result, our profitability may be reduced significantly. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payments” (“SFAS 123R”), which is a revision of SFAS No. 123. While SFAS No. 123 permitted, but did not require, share–based payments to employees to be recognized based on their fair value, SFAS 123R requires, as of the beginning of the first annual reporting period that begins after June 15, 2005, that all share-based payments to employees be recognized as a compensation expense based on their fair values. SFAS No. 123R also revises, clarifies and expands guidance in several areas, including measuring fair value, classifying an award as equity or as a liability and attributing compensation cost to reporting periods. Accordingly, we adopted SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006. We will implement SFAS 123R using the modified prospective method. Under this method, we will begin recognizing compensation cost for equity-based compensation for all new awards and to awards modified, repurchased or cancelled after January 1, 2006. Furthermore, we will recognize compensation cost attributable to the unvested portion of outstanding options as of January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value of those awards, as previously calculated and reported for pro forma disclosure purposes. The impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 123R cannot be predicted at this time because it will depend also on levels of share-based compensation granted in the future. However, if we adopted this standard in a prior period, we would have recorded a material amount as compensation expense, which would have had a material effect on our profitability. The adoption of this standard could materially adversely affect our profitability in the future. In addition, if as a result of SFAS No. 123R, we stop or limit the use of stock options as an incentive and retention tool, it could have a negative effect on our ability to recruit and retain employees. 12 Yehuda, Zohar and Roy Zisapel beneficially own approximately 32% of our ordinary shares and may therefore be able influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. As of February 15, 2005, Yehuda and Zohar Zisapel (who are brothers) and Roy Zisapel (who is Yehuda’s son) beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 31.7% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Such shareholders may be in a position to influence corporate governance and policy, including the election of our directors and the approval of change in control transactions. This influence may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance operations and to expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Risks Related to Operating In Israel Conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel and a substantial portion of our assets and our principal operations, are located in Israel. Consequently, our operations, financial condition and results of operations are directly influenced by economic, political and military conditions in and affecting Israel. We could be adversely affected if major hostilities involving Israel should occur, or if trade between Israel and its present trading partners is curtailed. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and the Arab countries in the region. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians. The hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians intensified in mid-2002 and led to a crisis in the entire peace process and have strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens, Arab countries and, to some extent, with other countries around the world. In January 2006, Hamas, an Islamic movement responsible for many attacks against Israelis, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority. The election of a majority of Hamas-supported candidates is expected to be a major obstacle to relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, as well as to stability in the Middle East as a whole. Any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, would likely negatively affect business conditions and harm our results of operations. In addition, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies and additional countries may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of the increase in hostilities. These restrictive laws and policies may harm the expansion of our business. We cannot predict whether or not a full resolution of these problems will be achieved, the nature of any such resolution, or any consequences that any of these factors may have on the Israeli economy or us. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of some of our key personnel to perform military service. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually. In addition, they may also be further subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances and could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. This could disrupt our operations and harm our business. Prolonged loss of the services of our key personnel due to army service could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reduction or termination of our tax and other benefits from government programs resulting from our failure to meet certain conditions or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We receive tax benefits under Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 (the “Investments Law”) for investment programs in our production facilities that are designated as “Approved Enterprises”. To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet several conditions. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the tax benefits received could be cancelled. The termination or reduction of the tax benefits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For more information about Approved Enterprises, see “Item 10.E. –Israeli Tax Considerations – Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959” below and Note 7(B) to the consolidated financial statements. 13 We may be required to pay stamp duty on agreements executed by us on or after June 1, 2003. This would increase our taxes. The Israeli Stamp Duty on Documents Law, 1961 (the “Stamp Duty Law”), provides that any document (or part thereof) that is signed in Israel or that is signed outside of Israel and refers to an asset or other thing in Israel or to an action that is executed or will be executed in Israel, is subject to a stamp duty, generally at a rate of between 0.4% and 1% of the value of the subject matter of such document. De facto, it has been common practice in Israel not to pay such stamp duty unless a document is filed with a governmental authority. An amendment to the Stamp Duty Law that came into effect on June 1, 2003, determines the party liable for payment of stamp duty with respect to each type of document subject to such law. Following such amendment, Section 15(5) of the Stamp Duty Law generally provides that stamp duty on most agreements shall be paid by the parties that signed such agreement, jointly or severally, or by the party that undertook under such agreement to pay the stamp duty. The Stamp Duty Law also provides that the failure to pay stamp duty could result in certain fines prescribed in such law. Following such amendment, in July 2004, a large number of Israeli companies received a request from the Customs and VAT Department of the Israel Ministry of Finance to disclose agreements (including memoranda) that were signed after June 1, 2003 with the aim of collecting stamp duty with respect to such agreements. We have not received such a request. Based on the advice of our Israeli legal counsel, we may only be required to pay stamp duty on documents signed on or after August 2004. If such is the case, we believe that the amount, if any, that we would be required to pay if we did receive such a request would be immaterial. However, we cannot assure you that the tax authorities or the courts will accept such view. Although at this stage it is not yet possible to evaluate the effect, if any, on us of the amendment to the Stamp Duty Law, the same could adversely affect our results of operations. Under an order published in December 2005, this requirement to pay stamp duty was cancelled with respect to any documents signed on or after January 1, 2006. Because we have received grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to on-going restrictions. We have received grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, known as the Chief Scientist, for research and development programs and we may apply for further grants in the future. In order to maintain our eligibility for these grants, we must meet specified conditions, including paying royalties with respect to grants received. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, sanctions might be imposed on us, such as the grants could be cancelled and we could be required to refund any payments previously received under these programs. Any products developed with these grants are required to be manufactured in Israel, unless we obtain prior approval of a governmental committee and pay increased royalties. In addition, we are prohibited from transferring the technology developed with these grants to third parties in Israel without the prior approval of a governmental committee. The Government of Israel has reduced the grants available under the Chief Scientist’s program in recent years, and this program may be discontinued or curtailed in the future. If we do not receive these grants in the future, we will have to allocate other funds to product development at the expense of other operational costs. For more information about grants from the Chief Scientist, see “Item 5.C. – Research and Development, Patents and Licenses” below. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors and our Israeli auditors, or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. Service of process upon us, our Israeli subsidiaries and affiliates, and upon our directors and officers and our Israeli auditors, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Because a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. In addition, there is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to specified time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final executory judgment in a civil matter, provided that: — adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; — the judgment was obtained after due process before a court of competent jurisdiction according to the rules of private international law prevailing in Israel; — the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; 14 — an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court; and — the U.S. court is not prohibited from enforcing judgments of Israeli courts. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in NIS, which can then be converted into non-Israeli currency and transferred out of Israel. The usual practice in an action to recover an amount in non-Israeli currency is for the Israeli court to render judgment for the equivalent amount in NIS at the rate of exchange on the date of payment, but the judgment debtor also may make payment in non-Israeli currency. Pending collection, the amount of the judgment of an Israeli court stated in NIS ordinarily will be linked to the Israel Consumer Price Index plus interest at the annual rate (set by Israeli law) prevailing at that time. Judgment creditors bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. As a result of the foregoing, it may be substantially more difficult to enforce a judgment against us, our officers, directors and auditors, than against domestic U.S. defendants. Provisions of Israeli law and our Articles of Association may delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our stock. Provisions of Israeli corporate law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or acquisition of, us. The Israeli Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the shares present and voting on the proposed merger. For purposes of the shareholder vote, unless a court rules otherwise, the merger will not be deemed approved if shares representing a majority of the voting power present at the shareholders meeting and which are not held by the other party to the merger (or by any person who holds 25% or more of the voting power or the right to appoint 25% or more of the directors of the other party or its general manager) have voted against the merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of the surviving company. Finally, a merger may generally not be completed unless at least (i) 50 days have passed since the filing of a merger proposal signed by both parties with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and (ii) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each of the parties to the merger. The Companies Law also provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 25% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already another 25% or greater shareholder of the company. Similarly, an acquisition of shares must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 45% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already a 45% or greater shareholder of the company. The tender offer may be consummated only if (i) at least 5% of the company’s outstanding shares will be acquired by the offeror and (ii) the number of shares tendered in the offer exceeds the number of shares whose holders objected to the offer. If, as a result of an acquisition of shares, the acquirer will hold more than 90% of a company’s outstanding shares, the acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the outstanding shares. If less than 5% of the outstanding shares are not tendered in the tender offer, all the shares that the acquirer offered to purchase will be transferred to it. The Companies Law provides for appraisal rights if any shareholder files a request in court within three months following the consummation of a full tender offer. If more than 5% of the outstanding shares are not tendered in the tender offer, then the acquirer may not acquire shares in the tender offer that will cause his shareholding to exceed 90% of the outstanding shares. Finally, Israel tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. For example, Israeli tax law may, under certain circumstances, subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in another corporation, to taxation prior to the sale of the shares received in such stock-for-stock swap. 15 