Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating and net losses. We may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Although we reported a profit in 2005, we incurred operating and net losses from fiscal year 2002 through 2004 and in 2006, 2007 and 2008, and we may incur losses in the future. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $27.8 million. We will need to generate revenues as well as manage our costs to obtain profitability. Our revenues may not grow or continue at their current level. In addition, in order to meet expanding sales and operations requirements, our expenses may increase. As a result, net cash outflows may continue for the near term, and we may again incur net operating losses. If our revenues do not increase, or if our expenses increase at a greater pace than our revenues, profitability may not be achieved or sustained. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Even if we maintain profitability, we cannot assure that future net income will offset our cumulative losses. Severe global economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business. The economic outlook for 2009 has worsened significantly, including in our largest market, Europe, and the global economic recession appears set to continue for some time. During the current global economic slowdown, many companies have reduced expenditures, and adverse economic conditions may cause our customers to reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly, which could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are currently unable to predict how long the recession will last or the full extent of its effects on our operating results and financial condition. We may need to raise additional financing in the future. If adequate funds are not available on terms favorable to us, our operations and growth strategy will be materially adversely affected. On December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $6.1 million. Our working capital requirements and the cash flow provided by our operating activities are likely to vary greatly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of orders and deliveries, and the payment terms offered to our customers. Although we anticipate that our existing capital resources will be adequate to satisfy our working capital and capital expenditure requirements until at least March 2010, we may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to satisfy our working capital, capital expenditure requirements and growth strategy. If we are unable to raise additional financing when needed on terms favorable to us, our operations and growth strategy will be materially adversely affected. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of then current shareholders would be diluted. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, a decrease in our sales. The sales of our enterprise sales solutions decreased in 2008 by more than 5% compared with year 2007 and by more than 19% compared with year 2006. There is no assurance that we will be able to return and achieve the same or higher levels of enterprise sales in the future. The sales of our carrier business solutions increased in 2008 by 8% compared with year 2007. Although the carrier sales improved in 2008, there is no assurance that we will be able to return and achieve the same levels of carrier sales in the future. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance. Our quarterly results of operations may be subject to significant fluctuations due to several factors, including the size, timing and shipment of orders; customer budget cycles and budgetary freezes; the timing of introductions of new products or product upgrades by us and our competitors; customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products or product upgrades; the mix of product sales; software and hardware development problems; product quality problems; product pricing; our effective provision of customer support; the relatively low level of general business activity during the summer months in the European market; and other factors. Moreover, because end-users of our enterprise solutions typically request delivery within two weeks of placement of their orders (which generally follows extensive sales efforts over an extended period of time), a majority of our sales in each quarter have resulted from orders placed in that quarter. The deferral of any large order from one quarter to another could materially adversely affect our results of operations for the previous quarter. Similarly, carrier sales are relatively large orders, and their postponement from one quarter to another could materially adversely affect our results of operations for the previous quarter. For the foregoing reasons, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that our results of operations in any particular quarter should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Furthermore, fluctuations in our operating results may cause volatility in the price of our ordinary shares. 8 We have a very limited order backlog. As a result, if revenue levels for any quarter fall below our expectations, our earnings will decrease. We have a very limited order backlog, which makes revenues in any quarter dependent primarily on orders received and delivered in that quarter. A delay in the recognition of revenue, even from one customer, may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. We base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends, and our expense levels are relatively fixed, or require some time for adjustment. Because only a small portion of our expenses varies with our revenues, if revenue levels fall below our expectations, our earnings will decrease. We depend upon independent distributors, representatives and strategic alliance partners to sell our products to customers. If our distributors, representatives and strategic alliance partners do not sell our products, our revenues will suffer. Our sales strategy includes direct sales to end-users as well as sales through independent distributors, for resale to integrators or through strategic alliance partnerships with original equipment manufacturers, commonly referred to as OEM. We are highly dependent upon acceptance of our products and solutions by such distributors, strategic alliance partners and integrators and their active marketing and sales efforts relating to our products and solutions. Moreover, a substantial majority of our distributors are neither obligated to deal with us exclusively nor contractually subject to minimum purchase requirements with respect to our products and solutions. Increasing competition among providers of products or solutions competitive with ours has strengthened the position of our distributors and other customers to negotiate favorable terms of sale. Under such conditions, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Certain of our distributors are permitted to sell competing products or solutions, and there can be no assurance that any of them will continue, or prioritize, marketing and supporting our products or solutions. Certain of our distributors are the only entities engaged in the distribution of our products or solutions in their respective geographical areas. In addition to the independent distributors mentioned above, we also have strategic alliances and relationships with four major cabling companies: Panduit, Brand-Rex (acquired by The Gores Group LLC), Belden/CDT (previously known as Nordx) and ADC (previously known as Krone). We are highly dependent upon their acceptance of, and active marketing and sales efforts relating to, our products and solutions. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by changes in the financial condition of a distributor, representative or strategic alliance partner, which could occur rapidly, or by changes in the business or marketing strategies of the distributor, representative or strategic alliance partner. There can be no assurance that we will retain our current distributors, representatives or strategic alliance partners, or that, if we terminate or lose any of such distributors, representatives or strategic alliance partners, we will be successful in replacing them on a timely basis or at all with another suitable distributor, representative or strategic alliance partner. Any such changes in our distribution channels, and particularly the loss of a major distributor, representative or strategic alliance partner, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our carrier products generally have long sales cycles, which increase our costs in obtaining orders and reduce the predictability of our earnings. The market for our carrier solutions consists of telephone companies, commonly referred to as telcos. Because of the large size and institutional nature of most telcos and the degree of governmental regulation to which they are often subject, companies (such as ourselves) which seek to market their products and services to telcos must often engage in sales efforts over an extended period of time, sometimes years, and provide a significant level of education to prospective telco customers regarding the use and benefits of such products or services. As a result, sales of carrier solutions to telcos require a lengthy sales cycle from the commencement of marketing efforts to the consummation of an actual transaction and may involve significant expenditures which may not be offset (on a timely basis or at any time) by revenues. Delays in the sales cycle of our products could also result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and reduce the predictability of our earnings. We must develop new products and enhancements to existing products on a timely and cost-effective basis to remain competitive. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, changing customer requirements, relatively short product lifecycles, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. Changes in technologies, customer requirements and industry standards and new product introductions by our existing competitors or by new market entrants could reduce the markets for our products or require us to develop new products. In addition, new or enhanced products developed by other companies could be incompatible with our products. Therefore, our timely access to information concerning, and our ability to anticipate, changes in technology and customer requirements and the emergence of new industry standards, as well as our ability to develop, manufacture and market new and enhanced products successfully and on a timely basis, will be significant factors in our ability to remain competitive. We are currently evaluating a number of potential products, some of which will endeavor to address emerging technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying new technologies, that our potential products will be successful or profitable, or that we will not encounter technical or other difficulties that could delay the introduction of these or other new or enhanced products in the future. As a result of the need to develop new and enhanced products, we expect to continue making substantial investments in research and development. Some of our research and development activities may relate to long-term projects, and revenues from products resulting from these activities may not be received for a substantial time, or at all. Products as complex as certain of our products sometimes contain undetected errors or “bugs,” which can cause delays in product introductions or require design modifications. In addition, it often takes several months before the manufacturing costs of new products stabilize, which may adversely affect operating results during such period. If we are unable to introduce new or enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis and to gain market acceptance for such products, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 9 If new products we recently introduced or expect to introduce in the near future fail to generate the level of demand we originally anticipated, we will realize a lower than expected return from our investment in research and development with respect to those products, and our results of operations may suffer. Our success is dependent, in part, on the willingness of our customers to transition or migrate to new products, such as the SiteWiz™ solution we introduced in 2008 and the Paladin™ product we introduced in 2009. We are involved in a continuous process of evaluating changing market demands and customer requirements in order to develop and introduce new products, features and applications to meet changing demands and requirements. We need to be able to interpret market trends and the advancement of technology in order to successfully develop and introduce new products, features and applications. If potential customers defer transition or migration to new products, our return on our investment in research and development with respect to products recently introduced or expected to be introduced in the near future will be lower than we originally anticipated and our results of our operations may suffer. For example, we have recently launched a strategic new product family, Paladin™, which offer solutions for real-time, active environment and security management, and marks our entrance to a new business line which we call Environment and Security Management. There is no assurance that the market or demand for Paladin™ will develop as rapidly as we expect or at all, or even if such market develops, that we will be successful in marketing and selling Paladin™ and growing revenues to justify our investments. Some of our competitors have greater resources than us, which may limit our ability to effectively compete with them. The markets for our products and solutions are very competitive and we expect that competition will increase in the future. Increased direct and indirect competition could adversely affect our revenues and profitability through pricing pressure, loss of market share and other factors. Many of our competitors are far larger, have substantially greater resources (including financial, technological, manufacturing and marketing and distribution capabilities) and are much more widely recognized than we are. These characteristics may provide a substantial advantage to our competitors in the eyes of end-users of enterprise and carrier solutions, who typically rely upon such products and solutions to perform or support critical functions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors as the market for our products and solutions evolves and the level of competition increases. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to differentiate our products and solutions from the products and solutions of our competitors or to develop or introduce successfully new products and solutions that are less costly or offer better performance than those of our competitors. In addition, our existing and prospective competitors may have established, or may establish in the future, relationships with our existing and potential customers including our OEM customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete. Our failure to manage our corporate expansion or contraction effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial control and results of operations. From 1989 to 2000, we expanded in both the scope and the magnitude of our operations. However, from 2001 until 2004, we instituted work force reductions and cost cutting measures following decreased sales. In 2005 and 2006, we increased our operational expenses as a result of a significant increase in our revenues compared with 2004. This growth placed a significant strain on our management, operational, financial and other resources. Following a decrease in our sales and margins, we instituted significant work force reductions and cost cutting measures in the third quarter of 2007. Any future growth or contraction may increase this strain. Furthermore, all or a portion of the expenses associated with any expansion of our operations may be incurred prior to the generation of any associated revenues, and the savings associated with cutbacks may not be realized prior to the decrease in associated revenues. If there is a substantial increase in demand in, or orders for, our products, we may not have the capacity to increase production using our existing reduced staff and may be unable to timely hire and train new employees. As a result, we could lose business to competitors with greater capacity and flexibility. If we are unable to manage our corporate expansion or contraction, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If our suppliers and subcontractors are not able to provide us with adequate supplies of certain components used in our products, we may not be able to deliver sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy demand. Certain components used in our products and solutions are presently available from, or supplied by, only one source and certain other components are only available from limited sources. Although we do not have long-term supply contracts with most of our existing suppliers, we have generally been able to obtain supplies of components in a timely manner and upon acceptable terms. There can be no assurance that delays in key component or product deliveries will not occur in the future due to shortages resulting from the limited number of suppliers or the financial condition or other difficulties of such suppliers. Any inability to obtain sufficient key components or to develop alternative sources for such components, if and as required in the future, could result in delays, interruptions or reductions in product shipments, which could have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships and, in turn, on our business and results of operations. 10 Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified sales, technical and customer support personnel. Our future performance depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical, sales and management personnel. None of our key personnel is bound by an employment agreement requiring service for any defined period of time. If we are unable to retain members of our management and key employees, we must successfully manage transition and replacement issues that may result from such departures. Our future performance also depends on our ability to attract skilled personnel in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, training, assimilating or retaining, on a timely basis and at a reasonable cost, all the personnel that we may require, or that we will not encounter difficulties as we integrate new personnel into our operations. Our inability to integrate such personnel into our operations or to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability could suffer if third parties infringe upon our proprietary technology or if our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our success is highly dependent upon our proprietary technology. We rely upon a combination of patents, patent applications, contractual rights, trade secrets, copyrights, non-disclosure agreements and technical measures to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products, systems and technologies. We hold patents on our Patch-View and PairView technologies and some of our cabling products. These patents expire in 2025, 2015 and 2024, respectively. We also have several patents and design patents pending on our new products. In addition, we enter into nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees and with certain suppliers and customers with access to sensitive information. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or independent development or sale by others of our technology or of products or solutions with features based upon, or otherwise similar to, our own. In addition, although we believe that our technology has been independently developed and that none of our technology or intellectual property infringes on the rights of others, there can be no assurance that we do not and will not so infringe or that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. In the case of infringement, we would, under certain circumstances, be required to modify our products or intellectual property or obtain a license to permit their continued use. There can be no assurance that we would be able to do either in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms and conditions, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if future litigation were to become necessary to protect trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary rights owned by us, to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others, or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others, such litigation could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our management’s attention. Adverse determinations in any such litigation or proceedings also could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain of our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we will have the resources to defend or prosecute a proprietary rights infringement action. In addition, the laws of foreign jurisdictions where we sell and seek to sell our products may afford little or no protection of our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that the protection provided to our intellectual property rights by the laws and courts of foreign nations will be substantially similar to the remedies available under U.S. law. We also cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us based on foreign intellectual property rights and laws that are different from those established in the United States. The conditions in the many countries in which we sell our products could affect our ability to deliver our products or collect payment. We currently market our products and solutions in numerous countries and are subject to many risks associated with international sales, including limitations and disruptions resulting from the imposition of government controls, national standardization and certification requirements, export license requirements, economic or political instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs, currency fluctuations and difficulties in managing international operations. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver our products, solutions and services on a competitive and timely basis, or to collect payments from customers in these countries and on our results of operations. Although we have not yet encountered significant difficulties in connection with the sale of our products and solutions in international markets, there is no assurance that we will not encounter such difficulties in the future or that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 We are subject to European regulations that require us to use components based on environmentally friendly materials and we may become subject to other environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to regulations requiring the use of “environmentally friendly” materials in equipment, including the 2006 European Community directive, also known as the RoHS directive, under which producers of electrical and electronic equipment may not place new equipment containing lead, mercury and certain other materials deemed to be hazardous, in amounts exceeding any relevant set maximum concentration values, on the market in the European Union. We are dependent on our suppliers for components and sub-system modules to comply with these requirements. Specifically, our inability or failure to comply with these regulations may restrict us from conducting certain business in the European Union or elsewhere and could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. To our knowledge, compliance with environmental laws and regulations has had no material effect on our operations to date. However, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to breach environmental laws, if our products were found not to comply with environmental laws or if we become subject to newly enacted environmental laws and regulations in the markets in which we operate. We may be subject to possible warranty claims from our customers. Our product warranties permit customers to return for repair any products deemed to be defective. It is our policy to grant a warranty to the hardware parts of our products for periods ranging from 12 to 36 months. This policy does not apply to the SMART Cabling System, SMART GIGA Cabling System and CLASSix Cabling Systems, which when installed by a certified cabling installer, and registered by us, are granted 15-year and 20-year system warranties, respectively. These warranty periods are customary in the structured cabling industry, but significantly longer than product warranties generally offered in other industries. Although no material warranty claims have been asserted against us in the past with respect to our structured cabling products, we cannot assure you that such claims will not be asserted in the future. If asserted, such claims may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, investor confidence and stock price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us. Our efforts to comply with the management assessment requirements of Section 404, which apply to our financial statements beginning with year 2007, have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a devotion of management time and attention to compliance activities, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. We may also identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our internal control over financial reporting has not yet been audited by our independent registered public accounting firm. In the future, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls are effective, our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also result in investigation and/or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. Changes in exchange rates between currencies may negatively impact our costs. Most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars or are dollar-linked. We collect a portion of our revenues in Europe in Euros while most purchases of materials and components, and most marketing costs, are denominated in dollars or dollar-linked. We incur a material portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, in Israel, in NIS. As a result, we are exposed to several risks, including that either the NIS or the Euro may increase in value relative to the dollar. If either of such events occurs, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel or Europe will increase and our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. For example, in 2008, on average yearly basis, there was a decrease of approximately 13% in value of the dollar in relation to the NIS and there was an increase of approximately 7% in the value of the dollar in relation to the Euro. This devaluation of the dollar together with the fact that we incur a material portion of our expenses in NIS had a material adverse effect on our results in 2008. We cannot assure you that we will not be materially affected in the future from currency exchange rate fluctuations or the rate of inflation in Israel. If the value of the NIS or the Euro continues to rise in value, relative to the dollar, our business and financial condition could continue to be negatively impacted. Recent changes in our senior management may cause uncertainty in, or be disruptive to, our business. We have recently experienced significant changes in our senior management. In June 2008, in connection with the acquisition of our control by STINS COMAN, Messrs. Sergey Anisimov and Boris Granovsky joined our Board of Directors, replacing Messrs. Yehuda Zisapel and Meir Barel. Mr. Anisimov was appointed Chairman, replacing Yehuda Zisapel who served as our Chairman since 1989. In addition, Mr. Avi Kovarsky has been appointed as our Chief Executive Officer, replacing Mr. Doron Zinger, who served as our Chief Executive Officer since June 2005. In addition, during 2008, several other individuals joined and left our senior management. The difficulties inherent in transitioning the Company under the leadership of new management, particularly a new Chief Executive Officer, and assimilating new management personnel into our corporate culture, may be disruptive to our business, and, during the transition period, there may be uncertainty among investors, vendors, employees and others concerning our future direction and performance. 12 Risks Related to our Relationship with STINS COMAN STINS COMAN beneficially owns approximately 59.8% of our ordinary shares and may therefore be able to control the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. As of March 15, 2009, STINS COMAN beneficially owned 59.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Accordingly, STINS COMAN therefore has, subject to special approvals required by Israeli law for transactions involving controlling shareholders, sufficient voting power to elect all of our directors (subject to the provisions of the Companies Law with regard to outside directors), control our management, and approve or reject any merger or similar transaction. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected by events relating to STINS COMAN that are unrelated to us. We may be affected by transactions with STINS COMAN. We are engaged and may in the future engage in transactions with STINS COMAN or its affiliates. In particular, STINS COMAN is our non-exclusive distributor in the Commonwealth of Independent States market, or CIS market, for our enterprise products since 1994 and for our carrier products since the end of 2008. We believe that such transactions are beneficial to us and are, or will be, conducted upon terms, which are no less favorable to us than would be available to us from unaffiliated third parties. However, you should be aware that STINS COMAN could, subject to compliance with provisions of Israeli law concerning related-party transactions, exercise their influence over our affairs in their own interest. See “Item 7.B. –Related Party Transactions.” Some members of our board of directors may have conflicts of interest with us. Two of the members of our board of directors are executive officers of STINS COMAN. These individuals may have conflicts of interest with respect to business opportunities and similar matters that may arise in the ordinary course of the business of STINS COMAN and RiT and could favor STINS COMAN in negotiations or relationships between STINS COMAN and us. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has decreased significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our ordinary shares has been volatile. The market price for our ordinary shares had a historical downward trend from 2000 until 2003 and during the past two years. Although prices were relatively more stable from 2003 to 2006, there can be no assurance that the volatility and downward trend will not continue. If revenues or earnings in any quarter fail to meet the investment community’s expectations, there could be an immediate impact on our share price. Our share price may also be affected by broader market trends or the economic and political situation in the Middle East and worldwide. A substantial decrease in market price of our ordinary shares could frustrate our efforts to raise funds through both debt and equity, discourage potential customers and partners from doing business with us, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not satisfy the NASDAQ Capital Market’s requirements for continued listing. If we cannot satisfy these requirements, NASDAQ could delist our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, or NASDAQ, under the symbol RITT. To continue to be listed on the NASDAQ, we will need to satisfy a number of conditions, including a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share, a market value of our publicly held shares, or MVPHS, of at least $1 million and stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million. On December 6, 2007, we received a NASDAQ Staff Deficiency Letter indicating that, for the 30 consecutive business days prior to the date of the letter, the bid price of our ordinary shares closed below the minimum bid price requirement of $1.00 per share. In light of a general temporary suspension by NASDAQ of the enforcement of the minimum bid price requirement, we currently have until September 2, 2009 to regain compliance with such requirement. 13 In August 2008, our shareholders authorized our board of directors to effect a reverse share split of all of our ordinary shares at a ratio not to exceed one-for-eight. Our board of directors currently intends to effect a reverse share split only if it believes that a decrease in the number of shares outstanding is likely to improve the trading price of our ordinary shares and only if it believes it will be necessary in order to continue our listing on the NASDAQ. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy the minimum bid, or continue to meet the MVPHS, stockholders’ equity or other continued listing requirements of NASDAQ in the future. If we are delisted from the NASDAQ , trading in our ordinary shares may be conducted, if available, on the “OTC Bulletin Board Service” or, if available, another medium. In the event of such delisting, an investor would likely find it significantly more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the value of our ordinary shares, and our ability to raise future capital through the sale of our ordinary shares could be severely limited. In addition, if our ordinary shares were delisted from NASDAQ, our ordinary shares could be considered a “penny stock” under the U.S. federal securities laws. Additional regulatory requirements apply to trading by broker-dealers of penny stocks that could result in the loss of an effective trading market for our ordinary shares. The sale of a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the expectation thereof, could materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise capital through an offering of securities. As of March 10, 2009, we had approximately 20.9 million ordinary shares issued and outstanding and approximately 3.0 million of additional ordinary shares which are issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants and an additional 1.3 million ordinary shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to options which may be granted under our stock option plans. Sales of the ordinary shares previously issued in private placements, sales of the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants or options, or even the prospect of such sales, could materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise capital through our offering of securities at acceptable prices. A substantial decrease in the market price of our ordinary shares could also discourage potential customers and partners from doing business with us, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance operations and to expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Risks Related to Operating In Israel Conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel and a substantial portion of our assets and our principal operations, are located in Israel. Consequently, our operations, financial condition and results of operations are directly influenced by economic, political and military conditions in and affecting Israel. We could be adversely affected if major hostilities involving Israel should occur, or if trade between Israel and its present trading partners is curtailed. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and the Arab countries in the region. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians which has strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens, Arab countries and, to some extent, with other countries around the world. The election in 2006 of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of the seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council and its subsequent seizure of control of the Gaza strip have created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. Further, in the summer of 2006, Israel engaged in a war with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. Since June 2007, thousands of missiles have been fired from Gaza at population centers in southern Israel, leading to an armed conflict between Israel and the Hamas in January 2009. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, would likely negatively affect business conditions and harm our results of operations. In addition, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies and additional countries may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of the increase in hostilities. These restrictive laws and policies may harm the expansion of our business. We cannot predict whether or not a full resolution of these problems will be achieved, the nature of any such resolution, or any consequences that any of these factors may have on the Israeli economy or us. 14 Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of some of our key personnel to perform military service. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually. In addition, they may also be further subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances and could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. This could disrupt our operations and harm our business. Prolonged loss of the services of our key personnel due to army service could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reduction or termination of our tax and other benefits from government programs resulting from our failure to meet certain conditions or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are entitled to receive certain tax benefits under Israeli law for investment programs in our production facilities that are designated as “Approved Enterprises”. To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet several conditions. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the tax benefits received could be cancelled. The termination or reduction of the tax benefits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. To date, we have not utilized such benefits. For more information about Approved Enterprises, see “Item 10.E. –Israeli Tax Considerations – Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959” below and Note 7(B) to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this annual report. Because we have received grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to on-going restrictions. We have received grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, known as the Chief Scientist, for research and development programs and we may apply for further grants in the future. In order to maintain our eligibility for these grants, we must meet specified conditions, including paying royalties with respect to grants received. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, sanctions might be imposed on us, such as the grants could be cancelled and we could be required to refund any payments previously received under these programs. Any products developed with these grants are required to be manufactured in Israel, unless we obtain prior approval of a governmental committee and pay increased royalties. In addition, the terms of the Chief Scientist’s grants limit our ability to transfer know-how developed under an approved research and development program outside of Israel. The Government of Israel has reduced the grants available under the Chief Scientist’s program in recent years, and this program may be discontinued or curtailed in the future. If we do not receive these grants in the future, we will have to allocate other funds to product development at the expense of other operational costs. For more information about grants from the Chief Scientist, see “Item 5.C. – Research and Development, Patents and Licenses” below. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors and our auditors, or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Service of process upon us, our Israeli subsidiaries and our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. We have been informed by our legal counsel in Israel, Goldfarb, Levy, Eran, Meiri, Tzafrir & Co., that it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws and including a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that: — the judgment is enforceable in the state in which it was given; — adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to present his arguments and evidence; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; — the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and — an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court. 15 Provisions of Israeli law and our Articles of Association may delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our stock. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making an acquisition of our company more difficult. For example, under the Companies Law, upon the request of a creditor of either party to a proposed merger, the court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there exists a reasonable concern that as a result of the merger the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of any of the parties to the merger. These provisions could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. See Item 10B. “Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Association – Anti-Takeover Provisions; Mergers and Acquisitions.” 