Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Company The Company is indirectly majority owned by the Chinese government, which may exert influence in a manner that may conflict with the interests of holders of ADRs, H Shares and A Shares. Major Chinese airlines are wholly- or majority-owned either by the Chinese government or by provincial or municipal governments in China. CSAHC, an entity wholly-owned by the Chinese government, holds and exercises the rights of ownership of 50.38% of the equity of the Company. The Company contemplates an additional capital injection from CSAHC directly, and indirectly through CSAHC’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Nan Lung, in an aggregate amount of approximately RMB3 billion. The capital injection will be effected by way of non-public A Share subscription by CSAHC and non-public H Share subscription by Nan Lung, respectively (“Proposed Subscriptions”). Currently, the Proposed Subscriptions have been approved by shareholders of the Company. On June 3, 2009, the Company received the formal approval from CSRC for the proposed non-public issue of H Shares. Up to June 12, 2009, CSRC’s formal approval for the proposed non-public issue of A Shares is pending. Upon completion of the subscriptions, CSAHC’s direct and indirect ownership in the Company will increase to approximately 59.32% of the issued share capital of the Company. The interests of the Chinese government in the Company and in other Chinese airlines may conflict with the interests of the holders of the ADRs, H Shares and A Shares. The public policy considerations of the Chinese government in regulating the Chinese commercial aviation industry may also conflict with its indirect ownership interest in the Company. In addition, the Company may accept further capital injection from CSAHC through non-public subscriptions, which may have dilutive impact for other holders of ADRs, H Shares and A Shares. Due to high degree of operating leverage and high fixed costs, a decrease in revenues of the Group could result in a proportionately higher decrease in its net income. The results of the Group’s operations are also significantly exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange. The airline industry is generally characterized by a high degree of operating leverage. In addition, due to high fixed costs, the expenses relating to the operation of any flight do not vary proportionately with the number of passengers carried, while revenues generated from a flight are directly related to the number of passengers carried and the fare structure of such flight. Accordingly, a decrease in revenues could result in a proportionately higher decrease in net income. Moreover, as the Group has substantial obligations denominated in foreign currencies, its results of operations are significantly affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, particularly for the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen. The Company recorded a net exchange gain of RMB2,832 million and RMB2,592 million for 2007 and 2008, respectively, mainly as a result of Renminbi appreciation. A majority of this exchange gain was unrealized in nature. 7 The Group has significant committed capital expenditures in the next three years, but may face challenges and difficulties as it seeks to maintain liquidity. As of December 31, 2008, the Group’s current liabilities exceeded its current assets by RMB32,290 million. The Group generally maintains sound operating cash flow. However, both current ratio and quick ratio are below average, which have negatively impacted, or may in the future negatively impact our liquidity. In addition, the Group has significant committed capital expenditures in the next three years, due to aircraft acquisitions. In 2009 and thereafter, the liquidity of the Group primarily depends on its ability to maintain adequate cash inflows from operations to meet its debt obligations as they fall due and its ability to obtain adequate external financing to meet its committed future capital expenditures. However, the Group may not be able to meet its debt obligations as they fall due and committed future capital expenditures if certain assumptions about the operations and the availability of external financing on acceptable terms are inaccurate. In particular, our ability to access adequate external funding may be adversely impacted by the deepening economic downturn globally and the recent instability in worldwide capital markets. As at December 31, 2008, the Group had banking facilities with several PRC commercial banks for providing loan finance up to approximately RMB125,265 million, of which approximately RMB47,125 million was utilized. The directors of the Company believe that sufficient financing will be available to the Group. However there can be no assurance that such loan financing will be available on terms acceptable to the Group. The Company contemplates an additional capital injection from CSAHC directly, and indirectly through CSAHC’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Nan Lung, in an aggregate amount of approximately RMB3 billion. The capital injection will be effected by way of non-public A Share subscription by CSAHC and non-public H Share subscription by Nan Lung, respectively (“Proposed Subscriptions”). Currently, the Proposed Subscriptions have been approved by shareholders of the Company. On June 3, 2009, the Company received the formal approval from CSRC for the proposed non-public issue of H Shares. Up to June 12, 2009, CSRC’s formal approval for the proposed non-public issue of A Shares is pending. The directors of the Company believe that the liquidity status of the Group will be further enhanced upon completion of the capital injection. CSAHC will continue to be the controlling shareholder of the Company, whose interests may conflict with those of the Company. CSAHC and certain of its associates will continue to provide certain important services to the Company. Any disruption of the provision of services by CSAHC or its associates could affect the Company’s operations and financial conditions. CSAHC will continue to be the controlling shareholder of the Company. CSAHC and certain of its associates will continue to provide certain important services to the Company, including the import and export of aircraft spare parts and other flight equipment, advertising services, provision of air catering, air ticket selling services, cleaning services, property management services, leasing of properties and financial services. In addition, Mr. Si Xian Min, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, also serves as President of CSAHC. The interests of CSAHC may conflict with those of the Company. In addition, any disruption of the provision of services by CSAHC’s associates or a default by CSAHC of its obligations owed to the Company could affect the Company’s operations and financial conditions. In particular, as part of its cash management system, the Company periodically places significant amount of demand deposits with SA Finance, a PRC authorized financial institution controlled by CSAHC and an associate of the Company. The Company has taken certain measures to monitor the fund flows between itself and SA Finance and the placement of funds by SA Finance. Such monitoring measures may help to enhance the safety of the Company’s deposits with SA Finance. In addition, the Company has received a letter of undertakings from CSAHC dated March 31, 2009, in which, among other things, CSAHC warranted that the Company’s deposits and loans with SA Finance were definitely secure and that SA Finance would continue to operate in strict compliance with the relevant rules and regulations. However, the deposits may be exposed to the risks associated with the business of SA Finance over which the Company does not exercise control. As of December 31, 2007 and 2008, the Group had deposits of RMB906 million and RMB1,139 million, respectively, with SA Finance. 8 Certain transactions between the Company and CSAHC or its associates (as defined in the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Hong Kong Listing Rules”)) will constitute connected transactions of the Company under the Hong Kong Listing Rules and, unless exemptions are applicable or waivers are granted, will be subject to disclosure requirements and/or independent shareholders’ approval in a general meeting. Both international and domestic economic fluctuations, Chinese government’s macroeconomic controls and large-scale natural disasters affect the demand for air travel, which will in turn cause volatility to the Group’s business and results of our operations. The US subprime crisis meltdown is an ongoing economic problem manifesting itself through liquidity issues in the global banking system owing to foreclosures which accelerated in the United States in late 2006 and has an adverse impact on global economy in 2007 and 2008. The deepening global recession has continued into 2009. The aviation industry as a whole is experiencing significantly weaker demand for air travel driven by the severe downturn. The financial crisis and other global events may reduce consumer spending or cause shifts in spending. A general reduction or shift in discretionary spending can result in decreased demand for leisure and business travel and can also impact the Company’s ability to raise fares to counteract increased fuel and labour costs. No assurance can be given that capacity reductions or other steps we may take will be adequate to offset the effects of reduced demand. The global economic slowdown has also negatively affected the growth rate of the Chinese economy. Chinese macroeconomic controls, taken to counteract such slowdown, such as financing adjustments, credit adjustments, price controls and exchange rate policies, would present unexpected changes to the aviation industry. As a result, the changing economic situation and Chinese macroeconomic controls may cause volatility to the Group’s business and results of our operations. In 2008, a number of large-scale natural disasters occurred in China, such as the southern China snow storms in January and the May 12 earthquake in Sichuan province. Disasters such as these can affect the airline industry and the Company by reducing revenues and impacting travel behaviour. In summary, both international and domestic economic fluctuations and Chinese macroeconomic controls affect the demand for air travel. Additionally, increasingly strict security measures make air travel a hassle in the eyes of some consumers. These factors can have an uncertain impact on the development of the aviation industry. The Company could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behaviour. The recent outbreak of the A/H1-N swine flu has had an adverse impact on the aviation industry globally (including the Company). The spread of the swine flu has been adversely affecting the Company’s international routes operations. If the swine flu spreads more widely, it could also affect the Company's regional and domestic routes operations, and result in significant impact on our business operations. If there were another outbreak of a disease that affects travel behaviour in the future, it could have a material adverse impact on us. Lack of adequate documentation for land use rights and ownership of buildings subjects the Company to challenges and claims by third parties with respect to the Company’s use of such land and buildings. Although systems for registration and transfer of land use rights and related real property interests in China have been implemented, such systems do not yet comprehensively account for all land and related property interests. The land in Guangzhou on which the Company’s headquarters and other facilities are located and the buildings that the Company uses at its route bases in Wuhan, Haikou and Zhengzhou are leased by the Company from CSAHC. However, CSAHC lacks adequate documentation evidencing CSAHC’s rights to such land and buildings, and, as a consequence, the lease agreements between CSAHC and the Company for such land have not been registered with the relevant authorities. As a result, such lease agreements may not be enforceable. Lack of adequate documentation for land use rights and ownership of buildings subjects the Company to challenges and claims by third parties with respect to the Company’s use of such land and buildings. The Company has been occupying all of the land and buildings described above without challenge or claim by third parties. CSAHC has received written assurance from the CAAC to the effect that CSAHC is entitled to continued use and occupancy of the land and certain related buildings and facilities. However, such assurance does not constitute formal evidence of CSAHC’s right to occupy such lands, buildings and facilities or the right to transfer, mortgage or lease such real property interests. The Company cannot predict the magnitude of the adverse effect on its operations if its use of any one or more of these parcels of land or buildings were successfully challenged. CSAHC has agreed to indemnify the Company against any loss or damage caused by or arising from any challenge of, or interference with, the Company’s right to use certain land and buildings. 9 Given the preliminary stage of direct flights arrangement between Taiwan and Mainland China, no assurance can be given that the Company will generate significant yields from such new route. In addition, any discontinuity or disruption in such arrangement may negatively affect the Company’s results. Further to temporary lifts of the ban on direct flights between Taiwan and Mainland China during certain festivals, as of July 4, 2008, the ban has been further liberalized to allow direct charter flights on weekends. The Company became the first Chinese carrier to fly non-stop from Mainland China to Taiwan. Previously, travellers between Taiwan and China have had to make use of intermediate stops in Hong Kong or elsewhere. As a result, the permitted direct flights may benefit the Company by shortening flights time, cutting fuel costs and reducing flight fares between Taiwan and Mainland China. However, given the preliminary stage of such direct flights arrangement, no assurance can be given that the Company will generate significant yields from the new route. In addition, the results of the Company’s operations will be negatively impacted by any discontinuity or disruption in the direct flight arrangement, which in turn will be subject to a number of factors beyond our control. Terrorist attacks or the fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the Company and the airline industry as a whole. The travel industry continues to face on-going security concerns and cost burdens. The aviation industry as a whole has been beset with high-profile terrorist attacks, most notably on September 11, 2001 in the United States. The issue could also affect China. Notably, on March 7, 2008, on a China Southern Airlines flight boarding in Urumqi, crew members discovered a suspected terrorist. Thereafter, the CAAC implemented increased security measures. Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the Company and the airline industry. Among possible effects that the Company could experience from terrorist attacks are substantial flight disruption costs caused by grounding of fleet, significant increase of security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and revenue per revenue passenger kilometer. The Group could be adversely affected by a failure or disruption of our computer, communications or other technology systems. The Group is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business. In particular, to enhance its management of flight operations, the Group’s computerized flight operations control system (SOC) began operation in May 1999. The system utilizes advanced computer and telecommunications technology to manage the Group’s flights on a centralized, real-time basis. The Group believes that the system will assist it to enhance the efficiency of flight schedule, increase the utilization of aircraft and improve the coordination of the Group’s aircraft maintenance and ground servicing functions. However, the computer and communications systems on which we rely could be disrupted due to various events, some of which are beyond our control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment failures, software failures and computer viruses and hackers. The Group has taken certain steps to help reduce the risk of some of these potential disruptions. There can be no assurance, however, that the measures we have taken are adequate to prevent or remedy disruptions or failures of these systems. Any substantial or repeated failure of these systems could impact our operations and customer services, result in the loss of important data, loss of revenues, and increased costs, and generally harm our business. Moreover, a failure of certain of our vital systems could limit our ability to operate our flights for an extended period of time, which would have a material adverse impact on our operations and our business. The Company’s failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading prices of our ADRs, H Shares or A Shares. 10 The United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company in the United States to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm may not be satisfied with our internal controls, the level of which our controls are documented, designed, operated and reviewed, or our independent registered public accounting firm may interpret the requirements, rules and regulations differently from us, then it may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting are not effective. Although our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 was effective, we may discover other deficiencies in the course of our future evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and may be unable to remediate such deficiencies in a timely manner. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal control is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading prices of our ADRs, H Shares or A Shares. The Company could be classified as a passive foreign investment company by the United States Internal Revenue Service and may therefore be subject to adverse tax impact. Depending upon the value of our shares and ADRs and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company believes that it was not a PFIC for the taxable year 2008. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be a PFIC for the taxable year 2009 and/or later taxable years, as PFIC status is re-tested each year and depends on the facts in such year. The Company will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either: (1) the average percentage value of its gross assets during the taxable year that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the value of its total gross assets (the “Asset Test”) or (2) 75% or more of its gross income for the taxable year is passive income (such as certain dividends, interest or royalties) (the “Income Test”). For purposes of the Asset Test: (1) any cash, cash equivalents, and cash invested in short-term, interest bearing, debt instruments, or bank deposits that is readily convertible into cash, will generally count as producing passive income or held for the production of passive income and (2) the average value of the Company’s gross assets is calculated based on its market capitalization. If the Company were a PFIC, you would generally be subject to additional taxes and interest charges on certain “excess” distributions the Company makes regardless of whether the Company continues to be a PFIC in the year in which you receive an “excess” distribution or dispose of or are deemed to dispose of your ADRs. An excess distribution would be either (1) a distribution with respect to ADRs that is greater than 125% of the average of such distributions over the preceding three years, or (2) 100% of the gain from the disposition of shares/ADRs. For more information on the United States federal income tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see Item 10, “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company”. Risks Relating to the Chinese Commercial Aviation Industry The Company's business is subject to extensive government regulations, and there can be no assurance as to the equal treatment of all airlines under those regulations. The Company’s ability to implement its business strategy will continue to be affected by regulations and policies issued or implemented by the CAAC, which encompasses substantially all aspects of the Chinese commercial aviation industry, including the approval of domestic, regional and international route allocation, air fares, aircraft acquisition, jet fuel prices and standards for aircraft maintenance, airport operations and air traffic control. Such regulations and policies limit the flexibility of the Company to respond to market conditions, competition or changes in the Company’s cost structure. The implementation of specific CAAC policies could from time to time adversely affect the Company’s operations. The CAAC has confirmed in writing that the Company will be treated equally with other Chinese airlines with respect to certain matters regulated by the CAAC. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the CAAC will, in all circumstances, apply its regulations and policies in a manner that results in equal treatment of all airlines. 11 The Company’s results may be negatively impacted by the fluctuation in domestic prices for jet fuel, and we would be adversely affected by disruptions in the supply of fuel. The availability and cost of jet fuel have a significant impact on the Group’s results of operations. The Group’s jet fuel cost for 2008 accounted for 65.99% of its flight operations expenses. All of the domestic jet fuel requirements of Chinese airlines (other than at the Shenzhen, Zhuhai, Sanya, Haikou, Shanghai Pudong and other small airports) must be purchased from the exclusive providers, CAOSC and Bluesky Oil Supplies Company, companies controlled and supervised by the CAAC. Chinese airlines may also purchase their jet fuel requirements at the Shenzhen, Zhuhai, Sanya, Haikou, Shanghai Pudong and other small airports from joint ventures in which the CAOSC is a partner. Jet fuel obtained from the CAOSC’s regional branches is purchased at uniform prices throughout China that are determined and adjusted by the CAOSC from time to time with the approval of the CAAC and the pricing department of the State Planning Commission (the predecessor of the NDRC) based on market conditions and other factors. As a result, the costs of transportation and storage of jet fuel in all regions of China are spread among all domestic airlines. Given the constant fluctuation in global oil prices, there is no way to assure that domestic prices for jet fuel do not fluctuate as well. For example, prior to 1994, domestic jet fuel prices were generally below international jet fuel prices. From 1994 to 2006, however, CAOSC’s domestic jet fuel prices were above international jet fuel prices, sometimes creating tensions over the fuel supply. In 2007 through the first half of 2008, the crude oil price in the international market reached its historic high level. In response to the pressure imposed by such rocketing price, NDRC increased the domestic price for jet fuel on November 1, 2007 and June 20, 2008, respectively. The increased fuel costs have significantly limited the Company’s ability to generate operating profit. In the second half of 2008, the crude oil price in the international market began to decrease continuously. In order to cushion fuel cost pressure faced by Chinese airlines, on December 19, 2008 and January 1, 2009, respectively, NDRC approved reductions in domestic prices for jet fuel. However, the potential benefit of these lower fuel prices may be setoff, to a certain level, by the downward adjustment in fuel surcharges as approved by the NDRC (see “ Item 4, “Information on the Company - Business Overview - “Fuel Surcharge” section below for further discussion). In summary, given the recent volatile fuel price, no assurance can be given that the Company’s results will not be negatively impacted by the fluctuation in domestic prices for jet fuel. While we seek to manage the risk of fuel price increases by using derivative contracts and the Company has gained, in 2008, aggregate profits of US$6.23 million from fuel option contracts, there can be no assurance that, at any given time, the Company will have derivatives in place to provide any particular level of protection against increased fuel costs. Moreover, declines in fuel prices below the levels established in derivative contracts may require us to provide cash collateral to secure the loss positions on such contracts, and if such contracts close when fuel prices are below the applicable levels, we would be required to make payments to close such contracts; these payments would be treated as additional fuel expense. In addition, jet fuel shortages have occurred in China and, on some rare occasions prior to 1993, required the Company to delay or even cancel flights. Although such shortages have not materially affected the Company’s operations since 1993, there can be no assurance that such a shortage will not occur in the future. If such a shortage occurs in the future and the Company is forced to delay or cancel flights due to fuel shortage, its operational reputation among passengers as well as its operations may suffer. A change in annual average price of US$1 per tonne of jet fuel affects the Group’s annual fuel costs by approximately RMB21 million, assuming no change in volume of fuel consumed. Accordingly, even if the jet fuel supply remains uninterrupted, increases in jet fuel prices will nevertheless adversely impact our financial results. The Company’s net incomes may suffer from an unexpected volatility caused by any fluctuation in the level of fuel surcharges. 12 The level of fuel surcharges, which is determined by Chinese government, affects domestic customers’ air travel demand as well as the Group’s ability to generate net incomes. Following a suspension period of more than one year, in 2005, the CAAC and the NDRC decided to resume the imposing of fuel surcharges by Chinese airlines for domestic routes. The level of fuel surcharges, and any adjustment of which, are determined by the CAAC and the NDRC based on such factors as jet fuel price, route miles and the location of destination. Recently, due to the downward trend in domestic fuel prices, the CAAC and the NDRC decided, on December 25, 2008, to reduce fuel surcharges for both domestic and international routes. Thereafter, the CAAC and the NDRC called for a stop on imposing fuel surcharges by Chinese airlines with effect from January 15, 2009. There can be no assurance that the imposing of fuel surcharges will be resumed again in the future. The Company’s net incomes may suffer from an unexpected volatility caused by any fluctuation in the level of fuel surcharges, which in turn may be affected by a number of factors beyond our control. Recent suspension of fuel surcharge may have an impact of stimulating the weakened air travel demand driven by the economic downturn. However, it may also reduce the Company’s revenues and therefore cause a shrink in its net incomes. In addition, no assurance can be given that the fuel surcharge suspension will be able to maintain a sustainable increase in air traffic volume, which would be adequate to setoff any resulted reduction of revenues the Company may suffer from. The Group’s results of operations tend to be volatile and fluctuate due to seasonality. The Group’s operating revenue is substantially dependent on the passenger and cargo traffic volume carried, which is subject to seasonal and other changes in traffic patterns, the availability of appropriate time slots for the Group’s flights and alternative routes, the degree of competition from other airlines and alternate means of transportation, as well as other factors that may influence passenger travel demand and cargo and mail volume. In particular, the Group’s airline revenue is generally higher in the second and third quarters than in the first and fourth quarters. As a result, the Company’s results tend to be volatile and subject to rapid and unexpected change. The Company’s operations may be adversely affected by insufficient aviation infrastructure in Chinese commercial aviation industry. The rapid increase in air traffic volume in China in recent years has put pressure on many components of the Chinese commercial aviation industry, including China’s air traffic control system, the availability of qualified flight personnel and airport facilities. Airlines, such as the Company, which have route networks that emphasize short- to medium-haul routes, are generally more affected by insufficient aviation infrastructure in terms of on-time performance and high operating costs due to fuel inefficiencies resulting from the relatively short segments flown, as well as the relatively high proportion of time on the ground during turnaround. All of these factors may adversely affect the perception of the service provided by an airline and, consequently, the airline’s operating results. In recent years, the CAAC has placed increasing emphasis on the safety of Chinese airline operations and has implemented measures aimed at improving the safety record of the industry. The ability of the Company to increase utilization rates and to provide safe and efficient air transportation in the future will depend in part on factors such as the improvement of national air traffic control and navigation systems and ground control operations at Chinese airports, factors which are beyond the control of the Company. The Company faces increasingly intense competition both in domestic aviation industry and in the international market. The CAAC’s extensive regulation of the Chinese commercial aviation industry has had the effect of managing competition among Chinese airlines. Nevertheless, competition has become increasingly intense in recent years due to a number of factors, including relaxation of certain regulations by the CAAC and an increase in the capacity, routes and flights of Chinese airlines. Competition in the Chinese commercial aviation industry has led to widespread price-cutting practices that do not in all respects comply with applicable regulations. Until the interpretation of CAAC regulations limiting such price-cutting has been finalized and strictly enforced, discounted tickets from competitors will continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s sales. 13 The Company faces varying degrees of competition on its regional routes from certain Chinese airlines and Cathay Pacific Airways, Dragonair and Air Macau, and on its international routes, primarily from non-Chinese airlines, most of which have significantly longer operating histories, substantially greater financial and technological resources and greater name recognition than the Company. In addition, the public’s perception of the safety and service records of Chinese airlines could adversely affect the Company’s ability to compete against its regional and international competitors. Many of the Company’s international competitors have larger sales networks and participate in reservation systems that are more comprehensive and convenient than those of the Company, or engage in promotional activities, that may enhance their ability to attract international passengers. Due to limitation on foreign ownership imposed by Chinese government policies, the Company may have no meaningful access to the international equity capital markets. Chinese government policies limit foreign ownership in Chinese airlines. Under these policies, the percentage ownership of the Company’s total outstanding ordinary shares held by investors in Hong Kong and any country outside China (“Foreign Investors”) may not in the aggregate exceed 49%. Currently, we estimate that 26.8% of the total outstanding ordinary shares of the Company are held by Foreign Investors. For so long as the limitation on foreign ownership is in force, the Company will have no meaningful access to the international equity capital markets. Risks relating to the PRC The Group has significant exposure to foreign currency risk as majority of the Group’s lease obligations and bank and other loans are denominated in foreign currencies. Due to rigid foreign exchange control by Chinese government, the Company may face difficulties in obtaining sufficient foreign exchange to pay dividends or satisfy our foreign exchange liabilities. Under current Chinese foreign exchange regulations, Renminbi is fully convertible for current account transactions, but is not freely convertible for capital account transactions. All foreign exchange transactions involving Renminbi must take place either through the People’s Bank of China or other institutions authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange or at a swap centre. The Group has significant exposure to foreign currency risk as substantially all of the Group’s obligations under leases and bank and other loans are denominated in foreign currencies, principally US dollars and Japanese Yen. Depreciation or appreciation of the Renminbi against foreign currencies affects the Group’s results significantly because the Group’s foreign currency payments generally exceed its foreign currency receipts. The Group is not able to hedge its foreign currency exposure effectively other than by retaining its foreign currency denominated earnings and receipts to the extent permitted by SAFE, or subject to certain restrictive conditions, entering into forward foreign exchange contracts with authorized banks. However, SAFE may limit or eliminate the Group’s ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. In addition, foreign currency transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from SAFE. This may affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions. No assurance can be given that the Group will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to pay dividends or satisfy our foreign exchange liabilities. The Group also has exposure to foreign currency risk in respect of net cash inflow denominated in Japanese Yen from ticket sales in overseas branch office after payment of expenses. The Group entered into certain foreign exchange forward option contracts to manage this foreign currency risk. However, like other derivative products, there can be no assurance that such option contracts can provide, at any given time, particular level of protection against foreign exchange risks. The Company’s operations are subject to immature development of legal system in China. Lack of uniform interpretation and effective enforcement of laws and regulations may cause significant uncertainties to the Company’s operations. The Company is organized under the laws of China. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes and is a system, unlike common law systems, in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. Since 1979, the Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws and considerable progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters, such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investments, commerce, taxation and trade. These laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and, like other laws, regulations and legal requirements applicable in China (including with respect to the commercial aviation industry), their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainties. 14 The PRC new tax law has deprived, or may in the future deprive the Company of preferential income tax rates, which the Company previously enjoyed. On March 16, 2007, the Fifth Plenary Session of the Tenth National People’s Congress passed the Corporate Income Tax Law of the PRC which took effect on January 1, 2008. As a result of the new tax law, the statutory income tax rate adopted by the Company and its subsidiaries has been changed from 33% to 25% with effect from January 1, 2008. Prior to enactment of the new tax law, the headquarters of the Company was taxed at a preferential rate of 18% and the branches and subsidiaries were taxed at rates ranging from 15% to 33%. Pursuant to the new tax law, the income tax rates of entities that previously enjoyed preferential tax rates of 15% and 18% have been revised to 18%, 20%, 22%, 24% and 25% for 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 onwards respectively. The PRC new tax law may have negative tax impact on holders of H Shares or ADRs of the Company, by requiring the imposition of a withholding tax on dividends paid by a Chinese company to a non-resident enterprise. The new tax law generally provides for the imposition of a withholding tax on dividends paid by a Chinese company to a non-resident enterprise at a rate of 10%. For individuals, Chinese tax law generally provides that an individual who receives dividends from the Company is subject to a 20% income tax. A 50% reduction of income tax is granted by Chinese tax law for an individual receiving dividends from a listed company on Shanghai Stock Exchange or Shenzhen Stock Exchange. As a result, the effective tax rate for dividends received by A Share individual holder is 10%. Currently, dividend income received by any foreign individual that holds overseas shares in any Chinese domestic enterprise is temporarily exempt from income tax. In the event that the exemption is discontinued, such payments will be subject to individual income tax at the 20% rate unless the holder is entitled to a tax waiver or a lower tax rate under an applicable double-taxation treaty. 15 ITEM 