Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If we are unable to adapt to changes in technology and customer demands, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. The communications industry is characterized by changing technology, changes in customer needs and frequent new service and product introductions, particularly in the areas of voice-over-Internet-Protocol (“VoIP”), broadband services and advanced wireless offerings. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to use leading technologies effectively, to continue to develop our technical expertise, to enhance our existing services and to develop new services that meet changing customer needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing technology, customer requirements and industry standards. Specifically, new technologies such as 4G, Ethernet or other alternatives to network access, could result in the development of additional products or services that compete with or displace ours, or that enable current customers to bypass use of our networks. In addition, communications customers are increasingly using wireless forms of communication, such as handheld Internet-access devices and mobile phones, which has resulted in a decline in the volume of voice traffic carried by traditional wireline communications networks. Any of these factors could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The development and offering of new services in response to new technologies or consumer demands may require us to increase our capital expenditures significantly. We may be required to invest or to convert our existing network to a network using more advanced technology. If we are unable successfully to install or operate new network equipment or convert our network, or if the technology choices we make prove to be incorrect, ineffective or unacceptably costly, we may not be able to compete effectively. In addition, new technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws, and, therefore, may be available only to our competitors. 13 Table of Contents Unfavorable general economic conditions could harm our business. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including recession and disruptions to the credit and financial markets, could negatively affect our business. These conditions could adversely affect the affordability of, and customer demand for, some of our products and services and could cause customers to delay or forego purchases of our products and services. Unfavorable general economic conditions could cause customers to reduce technology spending. In addition, our customers may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenues to decline, churn to increase, allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable to increase or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Unfavorable general economic conditions could also negatively impact third-party vendors we rely on for services and network equipment integral to our business. If these vendors encounter financial difficulties, their ability to supply services and network equipment to us may be curtailed. If such vendors were to fail, we may not be able to replace them without disruption to, or deterioration of, our service and we may incur higher costs associated with new vendors. If we were required to purchase another manufacturer’s equipment, we could incur significant initial costs to integrate the equipment into our network and to train personnel to use the new equipment. Any interruption in the services provided by our third-party vendors could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We face significant competition in the communications industry that could reduce our profitability. The communications industry is highly competitive, and we expect this competition to intensify. These markets are rapidly changing due to industry consolidation, an evolving regulatory environment and the emergence of new technologies. We compete directly or indirectly with incumbent local exchange carriers, such as AT&T, CenturyLink, Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc.; other competitive telecommunications companies, such as Level 3 Communications Inc., MegaPath, Inc., Windstream Corporation and XO Holdings Inc.; interexchange carriers, such as Sprint Nextel Corporation; wireless and satellite service providers; cable service providers/multiple system operators (MSOs), such as Charter Communications, Inc., Comcast, Cox Communications, Inc. and Time Warner Cable; and stand-alone VoIP providers. We experience significant pricing and product competition from AT&T and other incumbents that are the dominant providers of telecommunications services in our markets. We have reduced, and may be required to further reduce, some or all of the prices we charge for our retail local, long distance and data services. Competition could adversely impact us in several ways, including (i) the loss of customers and resulting revenue, (ii) the possibility of customers reducing their usage of our services or shifting to less profitable services, (iii) reduced traffic on our networks, (iv) our need to expend substantial time or money on new capital improvement projects, (v) our need to lower prices or increase marketing expenses to remain competitive and (vi) our inability to diversify by successfully offering new products or services. We believe the primary competitive factors in the communications industry include price, availability, reliability of service, network security, variety of service offerings, quality of service and reputation of the service provider. While we believe our business services compete favorably based on some of these factors, we are at a competitive disadvantage with respect to certain of our competitors. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater market presence, engineering, technical and marketing capabilities and financial, personnel and other resources substantially greater than ours; own larger and more diverse networks; are subject to less regulation; or have substantially stronger brand names. In addition, industry consolidation has resulted in larger competitors that have greater economies of scale. Consequently, these competitors may be better equipped to charge lower prices for their products and services, to provide more attractive offerings, to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, to increase prices that we pay for wholesale inputs to our services and to devote 14 Table of Contents greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services. Decisions by the Federal Communications Commission relieving incumbent carriers of certain regulatory requirements, and possible further deregulation in the future, may restrict our ability to provide services and may increase the costs we incur to provide these services. We rely in significant part on purchasing wholesale services and leasing network facilities from AT&T and other incumbent carriers. Over the past several years, the FCC has reduced or eliminated a number of regulations governing the incumbent carriers’ offerings, including removal of local switching and other network elements from the list of elements that the incumbent carriers must provide on an unbundled basis at TELRIC cost-based rates, as well as the grant of broad pricing flexibility to incumbents for their special access services in many areas. If the incumbent carriers do not continue to permit us to purchase these services from them under commercial arrangements at reasonable rates, our business could be adversely affected and our cost of providing local service could increase. This can have a significant adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. If the FCC, Congress, state legislatures or state regulatory agencies were to adopt measures further reducing the local competition-related obligations of the incumbents or allowing those carriers to increase further the rates we must pay, we could experience additional increases in operating costs that would negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. If we are unable to interconnect with AT&T and other incumbent carriers on acceptable terms, our ability to offer competitively priced local telephone services will be adversely affected. To provide local telephone services, we must interconnect with and resell the services of the incumbent carriers to supplement our own network facilities, pursuant to interconnection agreements between us and the incumbent carriers. We operate under interconnection agreements with AT&T, CenturyLink, Frontier Communications, Fairpoint Communications and Windstream. An interconnection agreement typically has a term of three years, although the parties may mutually agree to extend or amend such agreements. If we are not able to renegotiate or enter into interconnection agreements on acceptable terms, or if we are subject to unfavorable arbitration decisions, our cost of doing business could increase and our ability to compete could be impeded. Moreover, our interconnection agreements and traffic exchange with companies other than incumbent local exchange carriers (such as wireless and VoIP providers and other competitive carriers) are not subject to the statutory arbitration mechanism, making it potentially more difficult to reach any agreement on terms that we view as acceptable. If we are unable to enter into or maintain favorable interconnection agreements in our markets, our ability to provide local services on a competitive and profitable basis may be adversely affected. Any successful effort by the incumbent carriers to deny or substantially limit our access to their network elements or wholesale services also would harm our ability to provide local telephone services. Our operating performance will suffer if we are not offered competitive rates for the access services we need to provide our long distance services. We depend on other communications companies to originate and terminate a significant portion of the long distance traffic initiated by our customers. The FCC regulates the access rates charged by local carriers to interexchange carriers for the origination and termination of long distance traffic. These access rates make up a significant portion of the cost of providing long distance service. The FCC has recently adopted policy changes that over time are reducing carriers’ access rates. These new rules significantly alter the manner in which all carriers, including carriers that use different service platforms such as wireless and VoIP, are compensated for the origination and termination of telecommunications traffic. These new rules also may alter the rates that we pay for our access services. We expect these new rules to result in a loss of revenues and could potentially increase our volume of carrier disputes. Our operating performance will suffer if we are not offered these access services at rates that are substantially equivalent to the costs of, and rates charged to, our competitors and that permit profitable pricing of our long distance services. 15 Table of Contents We may experience reductions in switched access and reciprocal compensation revenue. We may experience declines in revenues for switched access and reciprocal compensation as a result of lower volume of traditional long distance voice minutes and FCC and state regulations compelling a reduction of switched access and reciprocal compensation rates. The FCC recently adopted policy changes that over time are reducing carriers’ access rates. We expect these new rules to result in a loss of revenues and could potentially increase our volume of carrier disputes. In addition, the FCC currently is considering whether and how to reform its special access rules. We rely to a considerable extent on interstate special access services purchased from the incumbent carriers in order to connect to our customers. Switched access and reciprocal compensation together have been declining over time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compensate for the reduction in intercarrier compensation revenue with other revenue sources or increased volume. Failure to obtain and maintain necessary permits and rights-of-way could interfere with our network infrastructure and operations. To obtain and maintain rights-of-way and similar franchises and licenses needed to install, operate and maintain fiber optic cable and our other network elements, we must negotiate and manage agreements with state highway authorities, local governments, transit authorities, local telephone companies and other utilities, railroads, long distance carriers and other parties. If any of these authorizations terminate or lapse, our operations could be adversely affected. We have substantial business relationships with several large telecommunications carriers, and some of our customer agreements may not continue due to financial difficulty, acquisitions, non-renewal or other factors, which could adversely affect our wholesale revenue and results of operations. We generate wholesale revenue from the sale of transmission capacity to other telecommunications carriers and have substantial business relationships with several large telecommunications carriers for whom we provide services. The highly competitive environment and the industry consolidation in the communications markets has challenged the financial condition and growth prospects of some of our carrier customers, and has caused such carrier customers to optimize the telecommunications capacity that they use among competing telecommunications services providers’ networks, including ours. Replacing this wholesale revenue may be difficult because individual enterprise and small to medium business customers tend to place smaller service orders than our larger carrier customers. In addition, pricing pressure on services that we sell to our carrier customers may challenge our ability to grow revenue from carrier customers. As a result, if our larger carrier customers terminate the services they receive from us, our wholesale revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. General Risks We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel, and the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect us. Our business depends on our ability to hire and retain senior management, sales and other key personnel, many of whom have significant experience in our industry. In the communications and technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled sales and IT personnel in particular. Acquisitions and workforce reductions may affect our ability to retain or replace key personnel, harm employee morale and productivity or disrupt our business. Key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us following a merger transaction. Effective succession planning is important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and transitions involving key employees could hinder execution of our business strategies. 16 Table of Contents Privacy concerns relating to our business could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our services. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. We strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies. However, any failure or perceived failure to comply with these laws, regulations or policies may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Federal and state governments have adopted consumer protection laws and undertaken enforcement actions to address advertising and user privacy. Our services and business practices, or changes to our services and business practices could subject us to investigation or enforcement actions if we fail to adequately comply with applicable consumer protection laws. Existing and future federal and state laws and regulations also may affect the manner in which we are required to protect confidential customer data and other information, which could increase the cost of our operations and our potential liability if the security of our confidential customer data is breached. Security breaches could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. We are subject to cyber security risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks. The services we offer involve the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information. Security breaches, such as unauthorized access, accidents, employee error or malfeasance, computer viruses, computer hackings or other disruptions, can occur that could compromise the security of our infrastructure, thereby exposing such information to unauthorized access by third parties. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy, protect against or alleviate these and related problems, and we may not be able to remedy these problems in a timely manner, or at all. Any security breaches that occur could damage our reputation, increase our security costs, expose us to litigation and lead to the loss of existing or potential customers. If our services are perceived as not being secure, our business may be adversely impacted. Interruption or failure of our network and information systems and other technologies could impair our ability to provide our services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. Our success depends on our ability to provide reliable service. Our network, network operations centers, central offices, corporate headquarters and those of our third party service providers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornados, floods and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, capacity limitations, telecommunications failures, software and hardware defects or malfunctions, break ins, sabotage and vandalism, human error and other disruptions that are beyond our control. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be adequate. We have experienced interruptions in service in the past due to factors such as cable damage, theft of our equipment, power outages, inclement weather and service failures of our third-party service providers. We may experience service interruptions or system failures in the future. In addition, in connection with enhancement, expansion or consolidation of our existing network, we may experience service interruptions despite our efforts to minimize the impact to customers. We may make significant capital expenditures to increase the reliability of our systems, but these capital expenditures may not achieve the results we expect. The occurrence of any disruption or system failure may result in a loss of business, increase expenses, damage our reputation for providing reliable service, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to litigation and possible financial losses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 17 Table of Contents Our business depends on effective business support systems and processes. Our business relies on our data, billing and other operational and financial reporting and control systems. To effectively manage our information technology infrastructure, we will need to continue to maintain our data, billing and other operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, which can be costly. We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any interruption in the availability of our business support systems, in particular our billing systems, could result in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues. Our ability to maintain, expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to acquisitions, growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our new service offering initiatives. Our inability to maintain, expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of new service offerings, increased acquisition integration costs, service or billing interruptions and the diversion of development resources. Government regulations could adversely affect our business or force us to change our business practices. Our services are subject to varying degrees of federal, state and local regulation. Federal, state and local regulations governing our services are the subject of ongoing judicial proceedings, rulemakings and legislative initiatives that could change the manner in which our industry operates and affect our business. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) exercises jurisdiction over telecommunications common carriers to the extent that they provide, originate or terminate interstate or international communications. The FCC also establishes rules and has other authority over some issues related to local telephone competition. State regulatory commissions retain jurisdiction over telecommunications carriers to the extent that they provide, originate or terminate intrastate communications. State commissions also have authority to review and approve interconnection agreements between incumbent telephone carriers and competitive carriers such as us, and to conduct arbitration of disputes arising in the negotiation of such agreements. Local governments may require us to obtain licenses, permits or franchises to use the public rights-of-way necessary to install and operate our network. Bills intended to amend the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (“Communications Act”) are introduced in Congress from time to time and their effect on us and the communications industry cannot always be predicted. Proposed legislation, if enacted, could have a significant effect on our business, particularly if the legislation impairs our ability to interconnect with incumbent carrier networks, lease portions of other carriers’ networks or resell their services at reasonable prices, or lease elements of networks of the ILECs under acceptable rates, terms and conditions. We cannot predict the outcome of any ongoing legislative initiatives or administrative or judicial proceedings or their potential impact upon the communications and information technology industries generally or upon us specifically. Failure to make proper payments for federal Universal Service Fund assessments, FCC regulatory fees or other amounts mandated by federal and state regulations; failure to maintain proper state tariffs and certifications; failure to comply with federal, state or local laws and regulations; failure to obtain and maintain required licenses, franchises and permits; imposition of burdensome license, franchise or permit requirements for us to operate in public rights-of-way; and imposition of new burdensome or adverse regulatory requirements could limit the types of services we provide or the terms on which we provide these services. We are subject to regulatory audits in the ordinary course of business with respect to certain of these regulatory matters, including audits by the Universal Service Administrative Company on Universal Service Fund assessments and payments. These audits can cover periods for several years prior to the date the audit is undertaken and could result in the imposition of liabilities, interest and penalties if our positions are not accepted by the auditing entity. Our financial statements contain reserves for certain of such potential liabilities which we consider reasonable. However, calculation of payments due with respect to these matters can be complex and subject to uncertainty. As a result, these audits could result in liabilities in excess of such reserves which could adversely impact our results of operations. Our business also is subject to a variety of other U.S. laws and regulations from various entities, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, as well as by state and local regulatory agencies, that could subject us to liabilities, claims or other remedies. Compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and may require significant costs. In addition, the regulatory framework relating to Internet and communications services is evolving and both the federal government and states from time to time pass legislation that impacts our business. It is likely that additional laws and regulations will be adopted that would affect our 18 Table of Contents business. We cannot predict the impact future laws, regulatory changes or developments may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations, increased enforcement activity of existing laws and regulations, or claims by individuals could significantly impact our costs or the manner in which we conduct business, all of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cause our business to suffer. Our business may suffer if third parties are unable to provide services or terminate their relationships with us. Our business and financial results depend, in part, on the availability and quality of certain third-party service providers, including certain billing and collection services. In addition, our VoIP services, including our E911 service, depend on the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. If one or more of our service providers does not provide us with quality services, or if our relationship with any of our third party vendors terminates and we are unable to provide those services internally or identify a replacement vendor in an orderly, cost-effective and timely manner, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could suffer. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property. We regard our trademarks as valuable assets to our business. In particular, we believe the strength of these brands among existing and potential customers is important to the success of our business. Additionally, our service marks, proprietary technologies, domain names and similar intellectual property are also important to the success of our business. We principally rely upon trademark law as well as contractual restrictions to establish and protect our technology and proprietary rights and information. We require employees and consultants and, when possible, suppliers and distributors to sign confidentiality agreements, and we generally control access to, and distribution of, our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, our brand image may be harmed and our business may suffer. In addition, protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights is expensive and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and consequently harm our results of operations. We may be accused of infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, which is costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. From time to time, third parties have alleged that we infringe on their intellectual property rights. We may be unaware of filed patent applications and of issued patents that could be related to our products and services. Some of the largest communications providers, such as AT&T, Sprint and Verizon, have substantial patent holdings. These providers have successfully asserted their claims against some communications companies, and have filed pending lawsuits against various competitive carriers. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. None of these claims has had an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell and support our services. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, are time-consuming and costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our methods of doing business, could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or could require us to cease conducting certain operations. Any of these events could result in increases in operating expenses or could limit or reduce the number of our service offerings. 19 Table of Contents If we, or other industry participants, are unable to successfully defend against legal actions, we could face substantial liabilities or suffer harm to our financial and operational prospects. We are currently a party to various disputes, litigation or other legal proceedings arising from normal business activities, including consumer class action, patent litigation and legal proceedings regarding network easements, the use of rights-of-way for our network and licenses to maintain our fiber optic network. The result of any current or future disputes, litigation or other legal proceedings is inherently unpredictable. Defending against disputes, litigation or other legal proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management’s attention and resources from other matters. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we may not prevail in these actions. In addition, our ongoing operations may subject us to litigation risks and costs in the future. Both the costs of defending lawsuits and any settlements or judgments against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The deregulation of the telecommunications industry, the implementation of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the evolution of telecommunications infrastructure from time-division multiplexing to Internet Protocol, and the distress of many carriers in the telecommunications industry as a result of continued competitive factors and financial pressures have resulted in the involvement of numerous industry participants in disputes, lawsuits, proceedings and arbitrations before state and federal regulatory commissions, private arbitration organizations such as the American Arbitration Association, and courts over many issues that will be important to our financial and operational success. These issues include the interpretation and enforcement of existing interconnection agreements and tariffs, the terms of new interconnection agreements, operating performance obligations, intercarrier compensation, treatment of different categories of traffic (for example, traffic originated or terminated on wireless or VoIP), the jurisdiction of traffic for intercarrier compensation purposes, the wholesale services and facilities available to us, the prices we will pay for those services and facilities and the regulatory treatment of new technologies and services. We may be required to recognize impairment charges on our goodwill and intangible assets, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $194.8 million of goodwill and $121.1 million of other intangible assets. We perform an impairment test of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or when events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not indicate that goodwill or any such assets might be impaired. We evaluate the recoverability of our definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable, include reduced future cash flow estimates, higher customer churn and slower growth rates in our industry. We have experienced impairment charges in the past. As we continue to assess the ongoing expected cash flows and carrying amounts of our goodwill and other intangible assets, changes in economic conditions, changes in operating performance or other indicators of impairment could cause us to record a significant impairment charge during the period in which the impairment is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations and financial position. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. 20 Table of Contents We are a wholly-owned subsidiary of EarthLink and therefore subject to strategic decisions of EarthLink and affected by EarthLink’s performance. We are fundamentally affected by our relationship with EarthLink. As a wholly-owned subsidiary of EarthLink, we are managed by officers and employees of EarthLink and we are subject to a wide range of possible strategic decisions that EarthLink may make from time to time. Those strategic decisions could include the level and types of financing we provide to support the business of EarthLink and its subsidiaries, subject to the terms of the indenture governing the Notes, and the level and types of transactional or other support made available to us by EarthLink. In addition, circumstances affecting EarthLink can significantly affect us. Significant changes in EarthLink’s strategy or in its relationship with us or material adverse changes in the performance of EarthLink or its other subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on us. The outstanding debt and other securities of ours are not obligations of EarthLink or other EarthLink subsidiaries. As a wholly-owned subsidiary of EarthLink, any arrangements or agreements between the two entities may have different terms than would have been negotiated by independent, unrelated parties. The arrangements and agreements between us and EarthLink may have different terms and provisions than would have been negotiated by independent, unrelated parties. Conflicts of interest could arise relating to the nature, quality and pricing of services or products provided by us to EarthLink or by EarthLink to us, any payment of dividends by us to EarthLink, any prepayment of the borrowings by us from EarthLink and general issues relating to maintaining or increasing our profitability. The terms of the indenture governing our Notes require that transactions we enter into with EarthLink and its other affiliates be conducted on an arm’s length basis; however, there can be no assurance that the terms of these arrangements are the same as would be negotiated between independent, unrelated parties. Risks Related to Our Liquidity and Financial Resources Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and limit our ability to react to changes in our industry. As of December 31, 2011, we had $324.8 million outstanding principal amount of 10.5% senior secured notes due 2016 (the “Notes”). We may also incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness may: · make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our indebtedness; · limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; · limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; · require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; · limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and · increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. Our ability to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability in the future to generate cash flows from operations, which is subject to all the risks of our business. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations for us to repay our indebtedness when such indebtedness becomes due and to meet our other cash needs. 21 Table of Contents The indenture that governs the Notes imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit or restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: · incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; · pay dividends or make other distributions to stockholders; · purchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; · make investments; · create liens or use assets as security; · enter into agreements restricting such restricted subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, make loans or transfer assets to us or other restricted subsidiaries; · engage in transactions with affiliates; and · consolidate or merge with or into other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our or their assets. If we breach any of these covenants, a default could result under the indenture, which may require us to repay some or all of our indebtedness. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We may require substantial capital to maintain, upgrade and enhance our network facilities and operations. We may also require additional capital to support our business growth, including the need to develop new services and products, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complimentary businesses and technologies. While we have historically been able to fund capital expenditures from cash generated by operations, the other risk factors described in this section could materially reduce cash available from operations or significantly increase our capital expenditures requirements. We may need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings in the future in order to meet our operating and capital needs. We may not be able to secure additional funds at the time when we need such funding. If we are unable to obtain additional capital when needed, our business could suffer. Any debt financing that we may obtain in the future could have restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 