Risk Factors Risks Relating to Brazil Brazilian political and economic conditions could affect our business and the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. In addition, uncertainty regarding such changes could affect our business and the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. The Brazilian government’s economic policies have in the past involved, among other measures, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by these economic policies in case they are reinstated. These and other measures could also affect the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. The Brazilian government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. Frequent and significant intervention by the Brazilian government has often changed monetary, tax, credit, tariff and other policies to influence the course of Brazil’s economy. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and implement other policies have at times involved wage and price controls, devaluation of the real in relation to the U.S. dollar, changes in tax policies as well as other interventionist measures, such as nationalization, raising interest rates, freezing bank accounts, imposing capital controls and inhibiting international trade in Brazil. Changes in policy involving tariffs, exchange controls, regulations and taxation could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results of the ADSs and our common shares. Fluctuations in the value of the Brazilian real against foreign currencies may result in uncertainty in the Brazilian economy and the Brazilian securities market, and they could have a material adverse effect on our net income and cash flow. In recent years, the Brazilian real has fluctuated against foreign currencies, and the value of the real may rise or decline substantially from current levels. For instance, depreciation of the real increases the cost of servicing our foreign currency-denominated debt and the cost of purchasing electricity from Itaipu, a hydroelectric facility that is one of our major suppliers and that adjusts electricity prices based in part on its U.S. dollar costs. Depreciation of the real also creates additional inflationary pressures in Brazil that may negatively affect us. Depreciation generally curtails access to international capital markets and may prompt government intervention. It also reduces the U.S. dollar value of our dividends and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the market price of our common shares and the ADSs. For additional information about historical exchange rates, see “Exchange Rates”. If Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, our margins and the market price of the Class B Shares and ADSs may be reduced. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation. More recently, Brazil’s annual rates of inflation, measured in accordance with the variation of the Índice Geral de Preços - Disponibilidade Interna (“IGP-DI”) index, were 2.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2015, 3.7% in 2014, 5.5% in 2013 and 8.1% in 2012. The Brazilian government has in the past taken measures to combat inflation, and public speculation about possible future government actions has had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. Although our concession contracts provide for annual readjustments based on inflation indexes, if Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, and the Brazilian government adopts inflation control policies similar to those adopted in the past, our costs may increase faster than our revenues, our operating and net margins may decrease and, if investor confidence lags, the price of the Class B Shares and ADSs may fall. Inflationary pressures may also curtail our ability to access foreign financial markets and could lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that may adversely affect the overall performance of the Brazilian economy. Allegations of political corruption against the Brazilian federal government and the Brazilian legislative branch could create economic and political instability. In the past, members of the federal government and of the Brazilian legislative branch have faced allegations of political corruption. As a result, a number of politicians, including senior federal officials and congressman, resigned and/or have been arrested. Currently, several members of the Brazilian executive and legislative branches of government are being investigated as a result of allegations of unethical and illegal conduct identified by the Car Wash Operation (Operação Lava-Jato) being conducted by the Office of the Brazilian Federal Prosecutor. The potential outcome of these investigations is unknown, but they have already had an adverse impact on the image and reputation of the investigated companies, in addition to adversely impacting general market perception of the Brazilian economy, and the conclusion of these proceedings or further allegations of illicit conduct could have additional adverse effects in the Brazilian economy. We cannot predict whether such allegations will lead to further instability or whether new allegations against key Brazilian government officials will arise in the future. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of any such allegations and their effect on the Brazilian economy. 7 Table of Contents Changes in Brazilian tax policies may have an adverse effect on us. The Brazilian government has in the past changed its tax policies in ways that affect the electricity sector, and it may do so again in the future. These changes include increases in the tax rates affecting energy companies and, occasionally, the collection of temporary taxes related to specific governmental purposes. If we are unable to adjust our tariffs accordingly, we may be adversely affected. Negative developments in other national economies, especially those in developing countries, may negatively impact foreign investment in Brazil and the country’s economic growth. International investors generally consider Brazil to be an emerging market. Historically, adverse developments in the economies of emerging markets have resulted in investors’ perception of greater risk from investments in such markets. Such perceptions regarding emerging market countries have significantly affected the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. Furthermore, although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country can impact the prices of securities in other countries, including those in Brazil and this may diminish investors’ interest in securities of Brazilian issuers, including ours. Risks Relating to Our Company and our Operations We are controlled by the State of Paraná, the policies and priorities of which directly affect our operations and may conflict with the interests of our investors. We are controlled by the State of Paraná, which holds 58.6% of our outstanding common voting shares as of the date of this annual report, and whose interests may differ from other shareholders. As a major shareholder, the State of Paraná has the power to control all of our operations, including the power to elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors and determine the outcome of any action requiring common shareholder approval, including transactions with related parties and corporate reorganizations. The operations of the Company have had and will continue to have an important impact on the commercial and industrial development of the State of Paraná. In the past, the State of Paraná has used, and may in the future use, its status as our controlling shareholder to decide whether we should engage in certain activities and make certain investments aimed, principally, to promote its public polices or social objectives and not necessarily to meet the objective of improving our business and/or operational results. We are largely dependent upon the economy of the State of Paraná. Our distribution market for the majority of our sales of electricity is located in the State of Paraná. Although a more competitive market involving possible sales to customers outside Paraná might develop in the future, our business depends and is expected to continue to depend to a very large extent on the economic conditions of Paraná. We cannot assure you that economic conditions in Paraná will be favorable to us in the future. The GDP (gross domestic product) of the State of Paraná increased 0.8% in 2014, while Brazil’s GDP increased 0.1% during the same period. 8 Table of Contents Deteriorating economic conditions in the State of Paraná and increasing energy prices may affect both the ability of our distribution costumers to pay amounts they owe us, as well as the amounts of our commercial losses. An increase in our commercial losses or uncollected receivables could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The general economic performance of Brazil and of the State of Paraná have declined recently. In addition, the price of electricity paid by our distribution customers has been increasing. An increase in electricity prices, as well as poor economic performance in the State of Paraná generally, would in each case affect the ability of some of our distributions customers to pay amounts owed to us. As of December 31, 2014, our past due receivables with final customers were approximately R$393.3 million in the aggregate, or 9.0% of our revenues from electricity sales to final customers for the year ended December 31, 2014, and our allowance for doubtful accounts related to these receivables was R$158.2 million. See Note 7 to our audited consolidated financial statements. In addition, increased prices and a deteriorating economy could result in a greater number of our distribution customers connecting illegally to our distribution grid, which would decrease our revenue from electricity sales to final customers. Furthermore, energy we lose to these illegal connections is considered a commercial loss, and we may incur regulatory penalties if our commercial losses exceed certain established regulatory thresholds. We are involved in several lawsuits that could have a material adverse effect on our business if their outcome is unfavorable to us. We are the defendant in several legal proceedings, mainly relating to civil, administrative, labor and tax claims. The outcome of these proceedings is uncertain and, if determined against us, may result in obligations that could materially affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2014 our provisions for probable and reasonably estimated losses were R$1,546.6 million. For additional information, see “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings”. The construction and expansion of our transmission and power generation projects involve significant risks that may have an adverse effect on us. In connection with the development of transmission and generation projects, we generally must obtain feasibility studies, governmental concessions or authorizations, permits and approvals, condemnation agreements, equipment supply agreements, engineering, procurement and construction contracts, sufficient equity and debt financing and site agreements, each of which involves the consent of third parties over which we have no control. In addition, project development is subject to environmental, engineering and construction risks that can lead to cost overruns, delays and other impediments to timely complete within a project’s budget. We cannot assure you that all required permits and approvals for our projects will be obtained, that we will be able to secure private sector partners for any of our projects, that we or any of our partners will be able to obtain adequate financing for our projects or that financing will be available on a non-recourse basis to us. If we are unable to complete a project, whether at the initial development phase or after construction has commenced, or if the completion of a project is delayed, this may decrease our expected financial return from the project, which may lead to impairment. If we experience these or other problems relating to the expansion of our electricity transmission and power generation capacity, we may be exposed to increased costs, or we may fail to achieve the revenues we planned in connection with such expansion projects, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to limitations regarding the amount and use of public sector financing, which could prevent us from obtaining financing and implanting our investment plan. Our current budget anticipates capital expenditures for expansion, modernization, research, infrastructure and environmental projects of approximately R$2,476.9 million in 2015. As a state- controlled company, we are subject to certain National Monetary Council (Conselho Monetário Nacional - “CMN”) and Brazilian Central Bank (Banco Central do Brasil) limitations regarding the level of credit financial institutions may offer to public sector entities. As a result, we may have difficulty in obtaining financing from Brazilian and international financial institutions, which could create difficulties in the implementation of our investment plan. As a result of these regulations, our capacity to incur debt is limited, which could negatively affect the implementation of our investment plan. 9 Table of Contents Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our data centers and operations and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In our ordinary course of business, we collect and store personal data of our customers in our data centers. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or loss of information could affect our operations and could result in legal claims or proceedings under Brazilian laws that protect the privacy of personal information (among others) and damage our reputation. Risks Relating to the Brazilian Electricity Sector We are uncertain as to the renewal of certain of our concessions, some of which are due to expire in 2015. Under the 2013 Concession Renewal Law, we may only renew our concessions that were in effect as of 1995 (and, in the case of generation facilities, generation concession contracts entered into prior to 2003) for an additional 30-year period (or an additional 20-year period in the case thermal plants), if we agree to amend the terms of the concession contract that is up for renewal to reflect certain new terms and conditions imposed by the 2013 Concession Renewal Law, which vary depending on whether the concession is for generation, transmission or distribution. If we do not agree to amend the concession contract to reflect these new conditions, the concession contract cannot be renewed and will be subject to a competitive bidding process upon its expiration, which we might not win. Up to now, we have decided not to renew our generation concession contracts that are set to expire by 2015 and are therefore subject to competitive bidding processes pursuant to the 2013 Concession Renewal Law, and we decided to renew pursuant to the 2013 Concession Renewal Law our one transmission concession contract that is set to expire by 2015. For distribution concessions, we are unsure of the conditions that the Ministry of Mines and Energy, or Ministério de Minas e Energia (“MME”), and the Brazilian Electricity Regulatory Agency, or the Agência Nacional de Energia Elétrica (“ANEEL”), will require in order to renew these concession contracts, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our main distribution contract, which expires on July 7, 2015, on terms that are favorable to us. The request for extension of our main distribution concession was presented to ANEEL on May 31, 2012 and we confirmed our request for renewal as required under the 2013 Concession Renewal Law. In January 2014, we received a response letter from ANEEL stating that it had analyzed our request, but that it had not made a final determination. If we do not renew our main distribution concession or if it is renewed under less favorable conditions, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. For more information, see “