Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating the Company’s business, you should consider the following discussion of risk factors, in addition to other information contained in this report as well as the Company’s other public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company's financial performance is dependent on international operations, which exposes it to various risks. The Company's international operations account for nearly all of the Company's total revenues. The Company's financial performance is subject to risks inherent in operating and expanding the Company's international membership warehouse club business, which include: (i) changes in and interpretation of tariff and tax laws and regulations, as well as inconsistent enforcement of laws and regulations; (ii) the imposition of foreign and domestic governmental controls; (iii) trade restrictions; (iv) difficulty and costs associated with international sales and the administration of an international merchandising business; (v) thefts, and the general level of crime or concern over security; (vi) product registration, permitting and regulatory compliance; (vii) volatility in foreign currency exchange rates; and (viii) general political as well as economic and business conditions. Circumstances relating to these risks may arise, which may then result in disruption to the Company’s sales, banking transactions, operations, merchandise shipments, and currency exchange rates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. Any failure by the Company to manage its widely dispersed operations could adversely affect the Company's business. As of August 31, 2013, the Company had in operation 31 warehouse clubs in 12 countries and one U.S. territory (five in Costa Rica; four each in Panama and Trinidad; three each in Guatemala, the Dominican Republic and in Colombia; two each in El Salvador and Honduras; and one each in Aruba, Barbados, Jamaica, Nicaragua and the United States Virgin Islands). The Company will need to continually evaluate the adequacy of the Company's existing infrastructure, systems and procedures, including warehouse management, financial controls, inventory controls and safety controls within the operation of a warehouse environment. Moreover, the Company will be required to continually analyze the sufficiency of the Company's inventory distribution channels and systems and may require additional or expanded facilities in order to support the Company's operations. The Company may not adequately anticipate all the changing demands that will be imposed on these systems. Any inability or failure to retain effective personnel or to update the Company's internal systems or procedures as required could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company faces significant competition. The Company's international merchandising businesses compete with exporters, wholesalers, local retailers and trading companies in various international markets. Some of the Company's competitors have greater resources, buying power and name recognition. In the countries in which the Company operates, the Company does not currently face direct competition from U.S. membership warehouse club operators. However it does face competition from various retail formats such as hypermarkets, supermarkets, cash and carry, home improvement centers, electronic retailers and specialty stores, including those within Latin America that are owned and operated by a large U.S. based retailer. The Company has noted that certain retailers are making investments in upgrading their locations which may result in increased competition. Further, it is possible that current U.S. warehouse club operators may decide to enter the Company’s markets and compete more directly with PriceSmart in a similar warehouse club format. The Company may be required to implement price reductions in order to remain competitive should any of the Company's competitors reduce prices in any of the Company's markets. Moreover, the Company's ability to operate profitably in its markets, particularly small markets, may be adversely affected by the existence or entry of competing warehouse clubs or discount retailers. Future sales growth depends, in part, on the Company’s ability to successfully open new warehouse clubs. As the growth rate of the existing warehouse clubs is impacted by, among other things, the physical limitations of the warehouse clubs, as well as the amount of merchandise that can be safely stored and displayed in the warehouse clubs and also the number of members that can be accommodated during business hours, future sales growth would depend, in part, upon the Company’s acquiring suitable sites for additional warehouse clubs. Land for purchase or lease, or buildings to be leased, in the size, and locations in those markets that would be suitable for new PriceSmart warehouse clubs may be limited in number or not be available or financially feasible. In this regard, the Company competes with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations. Additionally, local land use and other regulations restricting the construction and operation of the Company’s warehouse clubs and environmental regulations may impact its ability to find suitable locations, and increase the cost of constructing, leasing and operating its warehouse 5clubs. Limitations on the availability of appropriate sites for new warehouse clubs in the areas targeted by the Company could have a material adverse effect on the future growth of the Company.In some cases, the Company has more than one warehouse club in a single metropolitan area, and the Company intends to continue to open new warehouse clubs in areas where it already has warehouse clubs. A new warehouse club in an area already served by existing warehouse clubs may draw members away from existing warehouse clubs and adversely affect comparable warehouse club sales performance.The Company also intends to open warehouse clubs in new markets. The risks associated with entering a new market include potential difficulties in attracting members due to a lack of familiarity with PriceSmart and the Company’s lack of familiarity with local member preferences. In addition, entry into new markets may bring the Company into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. As a result, the Company’s new warehouse clubs might not be successful in new markets.The Company might not identify in a timely manner or effectively respond to changes in consumer trends and changes in consumer preferences for merchandise and shopping modalities, which could adversely affect its relationship with members, demand for its products and market share. The Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to identify and respond to trends in demographics and changes in consumer preferences for merchandise and shopping modalities. It is difficult to consistently and successfully predict the products and services the Company’s members will demand. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could adversely affect the Company’s relationship with its members, the demand for its products and its market share. If the Company is not successful at predicting sales trends and adjusting purchases accordingly, the Company might have excess inventory which could result in additional markdowns and have an adverse effect on margins (net sales less merchandise costs) and operating income.The Company faces difficulties in the shipment of, and inherent risks in the importation of, merchandise to its warehouse clubs. The Company's warehouse clubs typically import nearly half or more of the merchandise that they sell, which originates from various countries and is transported over long distances, typically over water, which results in: (i) substantial lead times needed between the procurement and delivery of product, thus complicating merchandising and inventory control methods; (ii) the possible loss of product due to theft or potential damage to, or destruction of, ships or containers delivering goods; (iii) product markdowns as a result of it being cost prohibitive to return merchandise upon importation; (iv) product registration, tariffs, customs and shipping regulation issues in the locations the Company ships to and from; and (v) ocean freight and duty costs. Moreover, each country in which the Company operates has different governmental rules and regulations regarding the importation of foreign products. Changes to the rules and regulations governing the importation of merchandise may result in additional delays, costs or barriers in the Company's deliveries of products to its warehouse clubs or may affect the type of products it selects to import. In addition, only a limited number of transportation companies service the Company's regions. The inability or failure of one or more key transportation companies to provide transportation services to the Company, any collusion among the transportation companies regarding shipping prices or terms, changes in the regulations that govern shipping tariffs or the importation of products, or any other disruption in the Company's ability to transport the Company's merchandise could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. The Company is exposed to weather and other natural disaster risks. The Company's operations are subject to volatile weather conditions and natural disasters, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, which are encountered in the regions in which the Company's warehouse clubs are located and which could result in significant damage to, destruction of, or temporary closure of, the Company's warehouse clubs. Warehouse club closures associated with heavy rains, local flooding and government advisories to stay off the roads during a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, could result in many days of lost sales. Similar risks could negatively affect the Company’s business if they were to arise in any of various points on its international merchandise distribution chain, in particular the Company's distribution centers or ports of origin or destination. Losses from business interruption may not be adequately compensated by insurance and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.General economic conditions could adversely impact the Company’s business in various respects. A slowdown in the U.S. and international economies or other economic conditions affecting discretionary consumer spending, such as employment rates, business conditions, inflation, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, interest rates, tax rates, consumer spending patterns, customer preferences and other economic factors in each of the Company's foreign markets may adversely affect its business by reducing overall consumer purchasing power and could negatively impact the Company's growth, sales and profitability. In addition, a significant decline in the economies of the countries in which the Company’s warehouse clubs are located may lead to increased governmental ownership or regulation of the economy, higher interest rates, increased barriers to entry such as higher tariffs and taxes, and reduced demand for goods manufactured in the United States. Factors such as declining expatriate remittances, reduced tourism, and less foreign investment could negatively impact the economies of Latin America and 6the Caribbean. The potential for economic instability, the impact of a global recession and its duration, the potential for failures or realignments of financial institutions and the related impact on available consumer credit could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.The Company is subject to changes in relationships and agreements with third parties with which the Company does business and/or from which the Company acquires merchandise. The Company has important ongoing relationships with various third-party suppliers of services and merchandise. These include, but are not limited to, local and regional merchandise suppliers, information technology suppliers, warehouse facilities and equipment suppliers, financial institutions, credit card issuers and processors, and lessors. Significant changes in those relationships or the agreements which govern the terms through which business is conducted including the Company's ability to purchase merchandise in sufficient quantities and at competitive prices, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operation. In this regard, the manner in which the Company acquires merchandise, either directly from the parent company or through a local subsidiary or distributor, is subject to change from time to time based on changes initiated by the supplier and for reasons beyond the control of the Company. Significant changes or disruptions in how the Company acquires merchandise from these suppliers could negatively affect the Company's access to such merchandise, as well as the cost of merchandise to the Company and hence its members, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.The Company relies extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage its business. Failure to adequately maintain the Company’s systems and disruptions in its systems could harm its business and adversely affect its results of operations. Given the number of individual transactions the Company has each year, the Company seeks to maintain uninterrupted operation of its business-critical computer systems. The Company’s computer systems, including back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, and errors by its employees. If the Company’s computer systems and back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the Company may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and it may suffer interruptions in its operations in the interim. Any material interruption in the Company’s computer systems could have a material adverse effect on its business or results of operations.The Company could be subject to additional tax liabilities. The Company is required to file federal and state tax returns in the United States and various other tax returns in foreign jurisdictions. The preparation of these tax returns requires the Company to interpret the applicable tax laws and regulations in effect in such jurisdictions, which affects the amount of tax paid by the Company. The Company, in consultation with its tax advisors, bases its tax returns on interpretations that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The tax returns, however, are subject to routine reviews by the various taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which the Company files its returns. As part of these reviews, a taxing authority may disagree with respect to the interpretations the Company used to calculate its tax liability and therefore require the Company to pay additional taxes. In addition, the Company computes its income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the countries in which it operates. As the tax rates vary among countries, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. Reviews, interpretations and changes in earnings within jurisdictions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.A few of the Company's stockholders own approximately 29.7% of the Company's voting stock as of August 31, 2013, which may make it difficult to complete some corporate transactions without their support and may impede a change in control. Robert E. Price, the Company’s Chairman of the Board, and affiliates of Mr. Price, including Price Charities, The Price Group, LLC and various trusts, collectively beneficially own approximately 29.7% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock. The percentage of stock controlled by these entities decreased from 29.8% to 29.7% during fiscal year 2013 as a result of various public and private sales of the Company's stock by these stockholders and the increase in common stock outstanding. As a result of their beneficial ownership, these stockholders have the ability to significantly affect the outcome of all matters submitted to the Company's stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. In addition, this ownership could discourage the acquisition of the Company's common stock by potential investors and could have an anti-takeover effect, possibly depressing the trading price of the Company's common stock. The loss of key personnel could harm the Company's business. The Company depends to a large extent on the performance of its senior management team and other key employees, such as U.S. expatriates in certain locations where the Company operates. The loss of the services of any members of the Company's senior management or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company does not maintain key- man life insurance on any executive. The Company is subject to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company conducts operations in Latin America and the Caribbean, and as such is subject to both economic and political instabilities that can cause volatility in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions. As of August 31, 2013, the Company had a total of 31 warehouse clubs 7operating in 12 foreign countries and one U.S. territory, 24 of which operate under currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For fiscal year 2013, approximately 79% of the Company's net warehouse club sales were in foreign currencies. The Company may enter into additional foreign countries in the future or open additional locations in existing countries, which may increase the percentage of net warehouse sales denominated in foreign currencies. Volatility and uncertainties regarding the currencies in the Company's countries could have a material impact on the Company’s operations in future periods. The Company faces the risk of exposure to product liability claims, a product recall and adverse publicity. The Company markets and distributes products purchased from third-party suppliers and products prepared by the Company for resale, including meat, dairy and other food products which exposes the Company to the risk of product liability claims, a product recall and adverse publicity. The Company may inadvertently redistribute food products or prepare food products that are contaminated, which may result in illness, injury or death if the contaminants are not eliminated by processing at the food service or consumer level. The Company generally seeks contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from its major suppliers for product purchased from third-party suppliers and carries product liability insurance for product prepared by the Company. However, if the Company does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability claims relating to products that are contaminated or otherwise harmful could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to successfully market its products and on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if a product liability claim is not successful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding a product recall or any assertion that the Company's products caused illness or injury could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation with existing and potential customers and on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.Potential future impairments of long lived assets could adversely affect the Company's future results of operations and financial position. Long-lived assets are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be measured and recognized if the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset were determined to be impaired, an impairment loss to write-down the carrying value of the asset to fair value by using quoted market prices, when available, would be required. When a quoted market price is not available, an estimated fair value would be determined through other valuation techniques. The Company has used projected cash flows to reflect the expected commercial, competitive and other factors related to its long-lived assets. These future tests may result in a determination that these assets have been impaired. If at any time the Company determines that an impairment has occurred, it will be required to reflect the impaired value as a charge, resulting in a reduction in earnings in the quarter such impairment is identified and a corresponding reduction in the Company’s net asset value. A material reduction in earnings resulting from such a charge could cause the Company to fail to be profitable in the period in which the charge is taken or otherwise to fail to meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts, which could cause the price of the Company's stock to decline. Write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets could adversely affect the Company's future results of operations and financial position. Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but instead are subject to annual assessments and, if deemed necessary, goodwill impairment tests. As of August 31, 2013, the Company had goodwill of approximately $36.4 million. The Company performed assessments and, if deemed necessary, impairment tests on goodwill as of August 31, 2013. The Company's assessment and testing of reported goodwill was performed at the entity level for fiscal year 2013 and fiscal year 2012. The Company's assessments or impairment testing found no significant change in those reporting units' assets and liabilities since fiscal year 2010; with each reporting unit's fair value determination substantially exceeding its carrying amount in fiscal year 2010 or impairment testing of the carrying amount of goodwill of reporting unit goodwill did not exceed the implied fair value of that goodwill. Accordingly no impairment losses were recorded in fiscal years 2013 and 2012. In the future, the Company will perform similar reviews for reporting entities where goodwill has been recorded. If at any time the Company determines that an impairment has occurred, the Company will be required to reflect the impaired value as a part of operating income, resulting in a reduction in earnings in the period such impairment is identified and a corresponding reduction in the Company's net asset value. A material reduction in earnings resulting from such a charge could cause the Company to fail to be profitable or increase the amount of its net loss in the period in which the charge is taken or otherwise fail to meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts, which could cause the price of the Company's stock to decline.The Company faces increased public company compliance risks and compliance risks related to the Company's international operations. In the United States and within the international markets where the Company operates there are multiple laws and regulations that relate to the Company's business and operations. These laws and regulations are subject to change and any failure by the Company to effectively manage its operations and reporting obligations as required by the various laws and regulations can result in the Company incurring significant legal costs, fines as well as disruptions to the Company's business and operations. Such failure could also result in investor loss of confidence in the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's stock price.8The Company faces increased compliance risks associated with compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires management of public companies to evaluate, and the independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. The Company’s internal controls over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and include those policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the Company’s transactions and the dispositions of its assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that the Company’s transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with appropriate authorizations; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on its financial statements. Any failure to effectively implement necessary or appropriate new or improved internal controls, to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation or remediate identified material weaknesses could harm the Company's operating results, cause it to fail to meet reporting obligations, result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of the Company's internal controls over financial reporting or the Company's independent auditors providing an adverse opinion regarding their attestation of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in the Company's reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's stock price.If remediation costs or hazardous substance contamination levels at certain properties for which the Company maintains financial responsibility exceed management’s current expectations, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In connection with its spin-off from Price Enterprises, Inc., or PEI, in 1997, the Company agreed to indemnify PEI for all of PEI's liabilities (including indemnification obligations for environmental liabilities) arising out of PEI's prior ownership of certain properties. The Company's ownership of real properties and its agreement to indemnify PEI could subject it to certain environmental liabilities. Certain of these properties are located in areas of current or former industrial activity, where environmental contamination may have occurred. The Company monitors the soil and groundwater at these locations as may be required by law. If the Company were to incur costs for remediating contamination at these sites which exceed management’s current expectations, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.9 