Item1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 32 Risks Related to the U.S. Financial Industry Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional financial institutions such as our Company. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We potentially face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our loan and investment portfolios requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers and trust preferred securities issuers to repay their debts. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Risks Related to our Business We are currently considering raising additional capital which may dilute your ownership interest. In addition, as a result of market conditions and other factors that may not be available to us. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In this regard, as part of our strategic planning; we are currently considering raising additional capital. We anticipate that this capital will be raised through non-government sources for the purpose of increasing our capital position and achieving compliance with the additional capital requirements contained in the MOU. This additional capital would also be available to support our future acquisitions. We do not, however, have any plans arrangements or understandings regarding any acquisition transactions. We have not decided on the type of securities we will issue but it may include common stock, preferred stock, warrants or a combination of these obligations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. If we are able to raise additional capital, it would likely be on terms that are dilutive to our current common shareholders. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year, reaching unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access capital may be adversely affected, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 33 We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. We are subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the OTS, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and may restrict certain activities, including but not limited to, payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, access to capital and brokered deposits and location of banking offices. If we were unable to meet these or other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We must also meet regulatory capital requirements imposed by our regulators. In January 2009, the Bank entered into a MOU with the OTS. Under that agreement, the Bank must, among other things, develop a plan for achieving and maintaining a minimum Tier 1 Capital (Leverage) Ratio of 8% and a minimum Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 12%, compared to its current minimum Tier 1 Capital (Leverage) Ratio of 4% and Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 8%. As of March 31, 2009, the Bank’s leverage ratio was 9.50% (1.50% over the new required minimum) and its risk based capital ratio was 11.46% (0.54% less than the new required minimum). Our business is subject to various lending risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. Our current business strategy is focused on the expansion of commercial real estate and commercial business lending. These types of lending activities, while potentially more profitable than single-family residential lending, are generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. In our primary market of southwest Washington and northwest Oregon, the housing market has slowed, with weaker demand for housing, higher inventory levels and longer marketing times. A further downturn in housing, or the real estate market, could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In addition, these loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Further, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss. Accordingly, when there are defaults and losses on these types of loans, they are often larger on a per loan basis than those for permanent single-family or consumer loans. A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate and construction loans is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. Our commercial real estate mortgage loans involve higher principal amounts than other loans and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. At March 31, 2009, we had $447.7 million of commercial real estate mortgage loans, representing 55.88% of our total loan portfolio. We originate commercial real estate mortgage loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by commercial properties. The credit risk related to commercial real estate mortgage loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one-to-four family residential or other consumer loans because the repayment of these loans typically is dependent on the income stream of the real estate securing the loan as collateral and the successful operation of the borrower’s business, which can be significantly affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the economy. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In addition, many of these loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. These balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the balloon payment. If we foreclose on these loans, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, these loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectibility of our commercial real estate mortgage loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or other consumer loans. 34 Our real estate construction and land acquisition and development loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate. We originate construction loans for commercial properties, as well as for single-family home construction. At March 31, 2009, construction loans totaled $139.5 million, or 17.41% of our total loan portfolio. Land acquisition and development loans totaled $91.9 million, or 11.47% of our total loan portfolio at March 31, 2009. In general, construction, land acquisition and development lending involves additional risks because of the inherent difficulty in estimating both a property’s value at completion of the project and the estimated cost of the project. As a result, construction loans and land acquisition and development loans often involve the disbursement of funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. The nature of these loans is also such that they are generally more difficult to monitor. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. If our appraisal of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of the construction project and may incur a loss. These loans also pose additional risks because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral. Market conditions may result in borrowers having difficulty selling lots or homes in their developments for an extended period, which in turn could result in an increase in delinquencies and non-accrual loans. Additionally, if the current economic environment continues for a prolonged period of time or deteriorates further, collateral values may further decline and are likely to result in increased credit losses in these loans. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the States of Washington and Oregon. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the states of Washington and Oregon and the specific local markets in which we operate. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers located primarily in seven counties of Washington and Oregon. As of March 31, 2009, substantially our entire real estate portfolio consisted of loans secured by properties located in these states. The local economic conditions in our market areas have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. Adverse economic conditions unique to these Northwest markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, a significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these state and local markets and, in turn, also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Beginning in 2007 and throughout 2008, the housing market in the United States has experienced significant adverse trends, including accelerated price depreciation in some markets and rising delinquency and default rates. Our construction and land loan portfolios, commercial and multifamily loan portfolios and certain of our other loans have been affected by the downturn in the residential real estate market. During 2008, evidence of this downturn became more apparent in the markets we serve. If real estate values continue to decline, the collateral for our loans will provide less security and our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, making it more likely that we will suffer losses on defaulted loans. As a result of these trends, we have recently experienced an increase in delinquency and default rates particularly in construction and land loans in our primary market areas. These trends if they continue or worsen could cause further credit losses and loan loss provisioning and could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. We may be required to make further increases in our provisions for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. As noted in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are experiencing increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses and we substantially increased our provision for loan losses in fiscal 2009, which adversely affected our results of operations. With the exception of residential construction and development loans, nonperforming loans and assets generally reflect unique operating difficulties for individual borrowers rather than weakness in the overall economy of the Pacific Northwest; however, more recently the deterioration in the general economy activity has become a significant contributing factor to the increased levels of delinquencies and nonperforming loans. Slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market has been the primary cause of the increase in delinquencies and foreclosures for residential construction and land development loans, which represent 77% of our nonperforming assets at March 31, 2009. Further, our portfolio is concentrated in construction and land loans and commercial and commercial real estate loans, all of which have a higher risk 35 of loss than residential mortgage loans. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, if a prolonged recession occurs we expect that it could severely impact economic conditions in our market areas and that we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover loan losses, our earnings could be reduced We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Material additions to the allowance or increases in our provision for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses was 2.12% of total loans and 62% of nonperforming loans at March 31, 2009. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by the bank regulators may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our deposit insurance assessments will increase substantially, which will adversely affect our profits. Our FDIC deposit insurance assessments expense for the twelve months ended March 31, 2009 was $760,000. Deposit insurance assessments will increase in 2009 due to recent strains on the FDIC deposit insurance fund resulting from the cost of recent bank failures and an increase in the number of banks likely to fail over the next few years. Effective April 1, 2009, FDIC assessments increased to a range of 12 to 45 basis points. Additional premiums are charged for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, including CDARS, and excessive use of secured liabilities, including FHLB and FRB advances. The FDIC may adjust rates from one quarter to the next, except that no single adjustment can exceed three basis points without a rulemaking proceeding. In May 2009, the FDIC approved a special assessment of 5 basis points applied to the amount of assets reduced by the amount of Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009 (not to exceed 10 basis points of the deposit assessment base). Two additional special assessments, each of the same amount or less, may be imposed for the third and fourth quarters of 2009. The FDIC has announced that the first of the additional special assessments is likely and the second is less certain. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. 36 Interest rates have recently decreased after increasing for several years. The U.S. Federal Reserve increased its target for the federal funds rate 17 times, from 1.00% to 5.25% during the period from June 30, 2004 to June 30, 2006. The U.S. Federal Reserve then decreased its target for the federal funds rate by 500 basis points to 0.25% during the period from September 18, 2007 to March 31, 2009. A sustained falling interest rate environment has a negative impact on margins as the Bank has more interest-earning assets that adjust downward than interest-bearing liabilities that adjust downward. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support our future growth. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the FHLB, the FRB and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, we may not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our financial condition, the financial condition of the FHLB or FRB, or market conditions were to change. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. Although we consider such sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations, growth and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. We rely on dividends from subsidiaries for most of our revenue Riverview Bancorp, Inc. is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. If we defer payments of interest on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures or if certain defaults relating to those debentures occur, we will be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, our common stock. We have junior subordinated debentures issued in connection with the sale of trust preferred securities that are statutory business trusts. We have also guaranteed those trust preferred securities. There are currently two separate series of these junior subordinated debentures outstanding, each series having been issued under a separate indenture and with a separate guarantee. Each of these indentures, together with the related guarantee, prohibits us, subject to limited exceptions, from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on, or redeeming, repurchasing, acquiring or making any liquidation payments with respect to, any of our capital stock at any time when (i) there shall have occurred and be continuing an event of default under such indenture or any event, act or condition that with notice or lapse of time or both would constitute an event of default under such indenture; or (ii) we are in default with respect to payment of any obligations under such guarantee; or (iii) we have deferred payment of interest on the junior subordinated debentures outstanding under that indenture. In that regard, we are entitled, at our option but 37 subject to certain conditions, to defer payments of interest on the junior subordinated debentures of each series from time to time for up to five years. As a result of these provisions, if we were to elect to defer payments of interest on any series of junior subordinated debentures, or if any of the other events described in clause (i) or (ii) of the first paragraph of this risk factor were to occur, we would be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends on the common stock, from repurchasing or otherwise acquiring any such common stock, and from making any payments to holders of common stock in the event of our liquidation, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Moreover, without notice to or consent from the holders of our common stock, we may issue additional series of junior subordinated debentures in the future with terms similar to those of our existing junior subordinated debentures or enter into other financing agreements that limit our ability to purchase or to pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock, including our common stock. Recently enacted legislation and other measures undertaken by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and other governmental agencies may not be successful in stabilizing the U.S. financial system or improving the housing market. Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). The EESA gives broad authority to the Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other troubled assets. The EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including: authority for the Federal Reserve to pay interest on depository institution balances; mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection; temporary increase in FDIC insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 through December 31, 2009; and authority to the Securities and Exchange Commission to suspend mark-to-market accounting requirements for any issuer or class of category of transactions. Pursuant to the TARP, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, Congress, Treasury, the Securities and Exchange Commission and others to address the currently liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the repeated lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service has issued an unprecedented wave of guidance in response to the credit crisis, including a relaxation of limits on the ability of financial institutions that undergo an ownership change to utilize their pre-change net operating losses and net unrealized built-in losses. The relaxation of these limits may make significantly more attractive the acquisition of financial institutions whose tax basis in their loan portfolios significantly exceeds the fair market value of those portfolios. Moreover, on October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a TLGP to provide full deposit insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC insured institutions and their holding companies. Under the program, the FDIC will guarantee timely payment of newly issued senior unsecured debt issued on or before October 31, 2009. The guarantee on debt issued before April 1, 2009, will expire no later than June 30, 2012. The guarantee on debt issued on or after April 1, 2009, will expire not later than December 31, 2012. The Bank has elected to participate in the TLGP. The actual impact that EESA and such related measures undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis will have generally on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, is unknown. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, (ARRA), into law. The ARRA is intended to revive the US economy by creating millions of new jobs and stemming home foreclosures. In addition, the ARRA significantly rewrites the original executive compensation and corporate governance provisions of Section 111 of the EESA, which pertains to financial institutions that have received or will receive financial assistance under TARP or related programs. The specific impact that these measures may have on us is unknown. 38 If other financial institutions holding deposits for government related entities in Washington State fail, we may be assessed a pro-rata share of the uninsured portion of the deposits by the State of Washington. We participate in the Washington Public Deposit Protection Program by accepting deposits from local governments, school districts and other municipalities located in the State of Washington. Under the recovery provisions of the 1969 Public Deposits Protection Act, when a participating bank fails and has public entity deposits that are not insured by the FDIC, the remaining banks that participate in the program are assessed a pro-rata share of the uninsured deposits. We could see declines in our uninsured deposits, which would reduce the funds we have available for lending and other funding purposes. The FDIC in the fourth quarter of 2008 increased the federal insurance of deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000 and provided 100% insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts for participating members including the Bank. These increases of coverage, with the exception of IRA and certain retirement accounts, are scheduled to expire December 31, 2013. With the increase of bank failures, depositors are reviewing deposit relationships to maximize federal deposit insurance coverage. We may see outflows of uninsured deposits as customers restructure their banking relationships in setting up multiple accounts in multiple banks to maximize federal deposit insurance coverage. Our ability to foreclose on single family home loans may be restricted. New legislation proposed by Congress may give bankruptcy judges the power to reduce the increasing number of home foreclosures. Bankruptcy judges would be given the authority to restructure mortgages and reduce a borrower's payments. Property owners would be allowed to keep their property while working out their debts. This legislation may restrict our collection efforts on one-to-four family loans. Separately, the administration has announced a voluntary program under the Troubled Asset Relief Program law, which provides for government subsidies for reducing a borrower's interest rate, which a lender would have to match with its own money. Our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock may become impaired. At March 31, 2009, we owned $7.4 million of stock of the FHLB. As a condition of membership in the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost and is subject to recoverability testing per SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. The FHLB recently announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the “FHFA”), its primary regulator, as of December 31, 2008, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, the FHLB did not pay a dividend for the fourth quarter of 2008 or the first quarter of 2009. The FHLB has communicated that it believes the calculation of risk-based capital under the current rules of the FHFA significantly overstates the market risk of the FHLB’s private-label mortgage-backed securities in the current market environment and that it has enough capital to cover the risks reflected in its balance sheet. As a result, we have not recorded an other-than-temporary impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. However, continued deterioration in the FHLB’s financial position may result in impairment in the value of those securities. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. Consolidation among financial service providers has resulted in fewer very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding a large accumulation of assets. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. Our competitors sometimes are also able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues, we expect additional institutions to try to exploit our market. Technological developments have allowed competitors including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost-efficiencies necessary to compete in our industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. 39 We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality, as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business. Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements. We may experience future goodwill impairment, which could reduce our earnings. We performed our test for goodwill impairment for fiscal year 2009, but no impairment was identified. Our assessment of the fair value of goodwill is based on an evaluation of current purchase transactions, discounted cash flows from forecasted earnings, our current market capitalization and a valuation of our assets. Our evaluation of the fair value of goodwill involves a substantial amount of judgment. If impairment of goodwill was deemed to exist, we would be required to write down our assets resulting in a charge to earnings, however, it would have no impact on our liquidity, operations or regulatory capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 