Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating the Company’s business, you should consider the following discussion of risk factors, in addition to other information contained in this report as well as the Company’s other public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company's financial performance is dependent on international operations, which exposes it to various risks. The Company's international operations account for nearly all of the Company's total sales. The Company's financial performance is subject to risks inherent in operating and expanding the Company's international membership business, which include: (i) changes in and interpretation of tariff and tax laws and regulations, as well as inconsistent enforcement of laws and regulations; (ii) the imposition of foreign and domestic governmental controls; (iii) trade restrictions; (iv) greater difficulty and costs associated with international sales and the administration of an international merchandising business; (v) thefts and other crimes; (vi) ;limitations on U.S. company ownership in certain foreign countries; (vii) product registration, permitting and regulatory compliance; (viii) volatility in foreign currency exchange rates; (ix) the financial and other capabilities of the Company's joint venturers and licensees; and (x) general political as well as economic and business conditions. For example, during fiscal year 2009, Honduras experienced a period of political unrest resulting in street demonstrations and government mandated curfews which caused the Company’s Honduras operations to experience some disruption, with store hours being reduced consistent with the curfews. Sales, banking transactions and merchandise shipments were not materially affected. However, a situation similar to that which occurred in Honduras could happen elsewhere and result in disruption of the Company’s sales, banking transactions, operations, merchandise shipments, and currency exchange rates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. Any failure by the Company to manage its widely dispersed operations could adversely affect the Company's business. As of August 31, 2010, the Company had in operation 27 warehouse clubs in 11 countries and one U.S. territory (five in Costa Rica; four each in Panama and Trinidad; three in Guatemala; two each in the Dominican Republic, El Salvador and Honduras; and one each in Aruba, Barbados, Jamaica, Nicaragua and the United States Virgin Islands). The Company constructed a new membership warehouse club in the Dominican Republic (“Arroyo Hondo”), that opened on Novem ber 5, 2010. The Company also plans to construct a new membership warehouse club in Colombia that is expected to open during the summer of 2011. The Company will need to continually evaluate the adequacy of the Company's existing personnel, systems and procedures, including warehouse management and financial and inventory control. Moreover, the Company will be required to continually analyze the sufficiency of the Company's inventory distribution channels and systems and may require additional or expanded facilities in order to support the Company's operations. The Company may not adequately anticipate all the changing demands that will be imposed on these systems. Any inability or failure to retain effective personnel or to update the Company's internal systems or procedures as required could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of op erations. The Company faces significant competition. The Company's international merchandising businesses compete with exporters, wholesalers, local retailers and trading companies in various international markets. Some of the Company's competitors may have greater resources, buying power and name recognition. There can be no assurance that additional competitors will not decide to enter the markets in which the Company operates or that the Company's existing competitors will not compete more effectively against the Company including establishing a club format which might directly compete with the Company. The Company may be required to implement price reductions in order to remain competitive should any of the Company's competitors reduce prices in any of the Company's markets. Mor eover, the Company's ability to operate profitably in its markets, particularly small markets, may be adversely affected by the existence or entry of competing warehouse clubs or discount retailers. The Company faces difficulties in the shipment of and inherent risks in the acquisition and importation of merchandise to its warehouse clubs. The Company's warehouse clubs typically import nearly half or more of the merchandise that they sell, which originates from various countries and is transported over long distances, typically over water, which results in: (i) substantial lead times needed between the procurement and delivery of product, thus complicating merchandising and inventory control methods; (ii) the possible loss of product due to theft or potential damage to, or destruction of, ships or containers delivering goods; (iii) product markdowns as a result of it being cost prohibitive to return merchandise upon importation; (iv) product registration , tariffs, customs and shipping regulation issues in the locations the Company ships to and from; and (v) ocean freight and duty costs. Moreover, each country in which the Company operates has different governmental rules and regulations regarding the importation of foreign products. Changes to the rules and regulations governing the importation of merchandise may result in additional delays, costs or barriers in the Company's deliveries of products to its warehouse clubs or may affect the type of products it selects to import. In addition, only a limited number of transportation companies service the Company's regions. The inability or failure of one or more key transportation companies to provide transportation services to the Company, any collusion among the transportation companies regarding shipping prices or terms, changes in the regulations that govern shipping tariffs or the importation of products, or any other disruption in the Comp any's ability to transport the Company's merchandise could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company acquires merchandise sold within its warehouse clubs from a number of suppliers, including large multi-national suppliers who sometimes also operate through local subsidiaries and distributors. The manner in which the Company acquires merchandise, either directly from the parent company or through a local subsidiary or distributor, is subject to change from time to time based on changes initiated by the supplier and for reasons beyond the control of the Company. Significant changes or disruptions in how the Company acquires merchandise from these suppliers could negatively affect the Company's access to such merchandise, as well as the cost of merchandise to the Company and hence its members, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company' s business, financial condition and results of operations. 4 The Company is exposed to weather and other natural disaster risks. The Company's operations are subject to the volatile weather conditions and natural disasters such as earthquakes and hurricanes, which are encountered in the regions in which the Company's warehouse clubs are located and which could result in significant damage to, destruction of, or temporary closure of, the Company's warehouse clubs. Warehouse club closures associated with heavy rains, local flooding and government advisories to stay off the roads during a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, could result in many days of lost sales. Similar risks could negatively affect the Company’s business if they were to impact any of various points on its international merchandise distribution chain, such as dist ribution centers or ports of origin or destination. Losses from business interruption may not be adequately compensated by insurance and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. General economic conditions could adversely impact the Company’s business in various respects. A further slowdown in the U.S. and international economies or other economic conditions affecting discretionary consumer spending, such as employment rates, business conditions, inflation, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, interest rates, tax rates, consumer spending patterns, customer preferences and other economic factors in each of the Company's foreign markets may adversely affect its business by reducing overall consumer purchasing power and could negatively impact the Company's growth, sales and profitability. In addition, a significant decline in the economies of the countries in which the Company’s warehouse clubs are locate d may lead to increased governmental ownership or regulation of the economy, higher interest rates, increased barriers to entry such as higher tariffs and taxes, and reduced demand for goods manufactured in the United States. Factors such as declining expatriate remittances, reduced tourism, and less foreign investment could negatively impact the economies of Latin America and the Caribbean. The current general global economic instability, the potential for further economic dislocations, the impact of a global recession and its duration, the potential for failures or realignments of financial institutions and the related impact on available credit could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. A few of the Company's stockholders own approximately 39% of the Company's voting stock, which may make it difficult to complete some corporate transactions without their support and may impede a change in control. Robert E. Price, the Company’s Chairman of the Board, and affiliates of Mr. Price and his late father Sol Price, including Price Charities, The Price Group, LLC and various trusts, collectively beneficially own approximately 39% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock. As a result of their beneficial ownership, these stockholders have the ability to significantly affect the outcome of all matters submitted to the Company's stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. In addition, this ownership could discourage the acquisition of the Company's common stock by potential investors and could have an anti-takeover effect, possibly depressing the trading price of the Company's common stock. The loss of key personnel could harm the Company's business. The Company depends to a large extent on the performance of its senior management team and other key employees, such as U.S. expatriates in certain locations where the Company operates. The loss of the services of any members of the Company's senior management or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company conducts operations in Latin America and the Caribbean, and as such is subject to both economic and political instabilities that cause volatility in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions. As of August 31, 2010, the Company had a total of 27 warehouse clubs operating in 11 foreign countries and one U.S. territory, 20 of which operate under currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Company also expects to acquire land in Colombia, where it plans to build a membership warehouse club scheduled to open in the summer of 2011. For fiscal year 2010, approximately 78% of the Company's net warehouse club sales were in foreign currencies. The Company may enter into additional fo reign countries in the future or open additional locations in existing countries, which may increase the percentage of net warehouse sales denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign currencies in most of the countries where the Company operates have historically devalued against the U.S. dollar and are expected to continue to devalue. For example, during fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2008, Guatemala and Jamaica experienced an 11% and a 23% devaluation, respectively. However, this devaluation trend was reversed in fiscal year 2010, as Costa Rica, Jamaica, and Guatemala experienced a 14%, 4% and 3% strengthening of their currencies, respectively, between the end of fiscal year 2009 and the end of fiscal year 2010. Foreign exchange transaction gains (losses), including repatriation of funds, which are included as part of the costs of goods sold in the consolidated statements of income, for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008 were approximately $1.5 million, ($1.4 million) and $1.6 million, respectively. The Company faces the risk of exposure to product liability claims, a product recall and adverse publicity. The Company markets and distributes products purchased from third-party suppliers and products prepared by the Company for resale, including meat, dairy and other food products which exposes the Company to the risk of product liability claims, a product recall and adverse publicity. The Company may inadvertently redistribute food products or prepare food products that are contaminated, which may result in illness, injury or death if the contaminants are not eliminated by processing at the food service or consumer level. The Company generally seeks contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from its major suppliers for product purchased from third-party suppliers and carries product liability insurance for product prepared by the Company. However, if the Company does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability claims relating to products that are contaminated or otherwise harmful could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to successfully market its products and on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if a product liability claim is not successful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding a product recall or any assertion that the Company's products caused illness or injury could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation with existing and potential customers and on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 5 Potential future impairments of long lived assets could adversely affect the Company's future results of operations and financial position. Long-lived assets are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be measured and recognized if the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset were determined to be impaired, an impairment loss to write-down the carrying value of the asset to fair value by using quoted market prices, when available, would be required. When a quoted market price is not available, an estimated fair value would be determined through other valuation techn iques. The Company has used projected cash flows to reflect the expected commercial, competitive and other factors related to its long-lived assets. These future tests may result in a determination that these assets have been impaired. If at any time the Company determines that an impairment has occurred, it will be required to reflect the impaired value as a charge, resulting in a reduction in earnings in the quarter such impairment is identified and a corresponding reduction in the Company’s net asset value. For example, in fiscal year 2009, the Company recorded an impairment charge of approximately $169,000 on point of sales hardware and warehouse storage and packaging equipment. This was due to the Company’s decisions to update its point of sales equipment and outsource the bulk packaging of product due to changes in the handling and storage of product at its warehouse club locations. The Company recorded approximately $18,000 for impairment charges in fiscal year 2010 related to the impairment of warehouse handling equipment. A material reduction in earnings resulting from such a charge could cause the Company to fail to be profitable in the period in which the charge is taken or otherwise to fail to meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts, which could cause the price of the Company's stock to decline. Write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets could adversely affect the Company's future results of operations and financial position. Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but instead are subject to annual impairment tests. As of August 31, 2010, the Company had goodwill of approximately $37.5 million. The Company performed its impairment test on goodwill as of August 31, 2010 and August 31, 2009, and no impairment losses were recorded. In the future, the Company will test for impairment at least annually. Such tests may result in a determination that these assets have been impaired. If at any time the Company determines that an impairment has occurred, the Company will be required to reflect the impaired value as a part of operating income, resulting in a reduction in earnings in the period such impairment is identified and a corresponding reduction in the Company's net asset value. A material reduction in earnings resulting from such a charge could cause the Company to fail to be profitable or increase the amount of its net loss in the period in which the charge is taken or otherwise fail to meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts, which could cause the price of the Company's stock to decline. The Company faces increased compliance risks associated with compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires management of public companies to evaluate, and the independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. The Company’s internal controls over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and include those policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the Company’s transactions and the dis positions of its assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that the Company’s transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with appropriate authorizations; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on its financial statements. Because of their inherent limitations, internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Any failure to effectively implement new or improved internal controls, or to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm the Company's operating results, cause it to fail to meet reporting obligations, result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of the Company's internal controls over financial reporting or the Company's independent auditors providing an adverse opinion regarding their attestation of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in the Company's reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's stock price. If remediation costs or hazardous substance contamination levels at certain properties for which the Company maintains financial responsibility exceed management’s current expectations, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In connection with its spin-off from Price Enterprises, Inc., or PEI, in 1997, the Company agreed to indemnify PEI for all of PEI's liabilities (including indemnification obligations for environmental liabilities) arising out of PEI's prior ownership of certain properties. The Company's ownership of real properties and its agreement to indemnify PEI could subject it to certain environmental liabilities. Certain of these properties are located in areas of current or former industrial activity, wher e environmental contamination may have occurred. For example, PEI sold an unimproved, 12.9-acre site located in Meadowlands, New Jersey in August 1995. A prior owner used this site as a debris disposal area. Elevated levels of heavy metals (including a small area contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyl) and petroleum hydrocarbons are present in soil at the Meadowlands site. To date, the Company has not been advised that PEI has been notified by any governmental authority, and is not otherwise aware, of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products in connection with the Meadowlands site. Nevertheless, PEI's previous ownership of the Meadowlands site creates the potential of liability for remediation costs associated with groundwater beneath the site. The Company also retains certain environmental indemnification obligations with respect to a parcel of land in Silver City, New Mexico, which PEI sold in March 1996 but agreed to retain responsi bility for certain environmental matters. This site contains petroleum hydrocarbons in the soil and groundwater. There are no known receptors (groundwater users) down gradient of the Silver City site and the extent of soil and groundwater contamination is limited and has been reducing in mass and extent under naturally attenuating processes. The Company continues to monitor the soil and groundwater at this property as may be required by local authorities. If the Company were to incur costs for remediating contamination at the Meadowlands or Silver City sites (or any other site for which the Company maintains environmental responsibility) which exceed management’s current expectations, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. 6 Available Information The PriceSmart, Inc. website or internet address is www.pricesmart.com. On this website the Company makes available, free of charge, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, and the annual report to the stockholders as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with or furnishing it to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Company’s SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of its website under “SEC Filings.” All of the Company’s filings with the SEC may also be obtained at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at Room 1580, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. For information regarding the operation of the SEC’s Public Reference Room, please contact the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Additionally, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The Company will make available its annual report on Form 10-K and its annual Proxy Statement for the fiscal year 2010 at the internet address http://materials.proxyvote.com/741511 as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with or furnishing it to the SEC. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 