Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company could experience an increase in loan losses, which would reduce the Company’s earnings. As the nation continues to suffer from an economic recession, real estate prices remain under pressure in the Company’s market. Furthermore, elevated levels of unemployment have made it difficult for many consumers to meet their monthly obligations. The deployment of military personnel out of Fort Campbell to the Middle East may reduce both demand for and pricing of all types of real estate in the Company’s largest market. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. As discussed in Footnote 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has significant exposure to various types of real estate loans, including commercial real estate, land and land development loans, construction loans, multi-family real estate and loans for residential homes. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and our industry has seen above average loan loss levels for approximately eighteen months. While the Company believes that its loan underwriting standards have been and remain sound, the Company has experienced an increase in charge offs and non-performing loans. To the extent charge offs exceed our financial models, increased amounts charged to the provision for loan losses would reduce net income. Rapidly changing interest rate environments could reduce our net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income. Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of our net income. Interest rates are the key drivers of the Company’s net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in the maturities of the Company’s assets and liabilities. Furthermore, substantially higher rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” Liquidity needs could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company relies on dividends from the Bank as a primary source of funds. The Bank’s primary source of funds is customer deposits and cash flows from investment instruments and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source, they are subject to the ability of the borrowers to repay their loans. The ability of the borrowers to repay their loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting the business environment, natural disasters and various other factors. Cash flows from the investment portfolio may be affected by changes in interest rates, resulting in excessive levels of cash flow during periods of declining interest rates and lower levels of cash flow during periods of rising interest rates. Deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including both the national market and local competitive interest rate environment, local and national economic conditions, natural disasters and other various events. Accordingly, the Company may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include the FHLB advances, brokered deposits and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. The Company may also pledge investments as collateral to borrow money from third parties. In certain cases, the Company may sell investment instruments for sizable losses to meet liquidity needs, hurting net income. While the Company believes that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity needs. 33 The financial industry is very competitive. We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services throughout our market area. Our competitors include other community banks, regional and super-regional banking institutions, national banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies, brokerage companies, and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than HopFed Bancorp, Inc. Inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our revenues and net income. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting, hiring, and training expenses, resulting in lower net income. The Company is subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict its activities. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Company’s regulatory compliance is costly and certain types of activities, including the payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged and interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices are subject to regulatory approval and may be limited by regulation. The Company is also subject to capitalization guidelines established by its regulators, which require it and the Bank to maintain adequate capital to support its and the Bank’s growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and the Company cannot predict the effects of these changes on its business and profitability. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ National Market that are now and will be applicable to the Company, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, the Company has experienced, and may continue to experience, greater compliance cost. Legislation was enacted on July 21, 2010 that will implement sweeping changes to the current bank regulatory structure. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) will eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision. The Comptroller of the Currency (the primary federal regulator for national banks) will become the primary federal regulator of the Bank. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) will have exclusive authority to regulate all bank and thrift holding companies. As a result, the Company will become subject to supervision by the Federal Reserve Board as opposed to the Office of Thrift Supervision. These changes to our regulators will occur on the transfer date, which is expected to be July 21, 2011. Among the many requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act for new banking regulations is a requirement for new capital regulations to be adopted within 18 months. These regulations must be at least as stringent as, and may call for higher levels of capital than, current regulations. Generally, trust preferred securities will no longer be eligible as Tier 1 capital, but the Company's currently outstanding trust preferred securities will be grandfathered. Savings and loan holding companies like the Company have not previously been subject to capital requirements, but under the Dodd-Frank Act, five years from the date of enactment, savings and loan holding companies will become subject to the same capital requirements as bank holding companies. Savings and loan holding companies are immediately subject to the source of strength doctrine, under which a holding company must serve as a source of financial strength for its depository institution subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes a new minimum reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund of 1.35%, and requires the FDIC to take steps to reach this ratio by September 30, 2020. It is expected that this will result in relatively higher assessments for larger institutions (with assets greater than $10 billion). 34 Even though the Company’s common stock is currently traded on The NASDAQ National Market, the trading volume in the Company’s common stock has been low and the sale of substantial amounts of its common stock in the public market could depress the price of the Company’s common stock. The trading volume of the Company’s common stock on The NASDAQ National Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on The NASDAQ National Market or other stock exchanges. Thinly traded stocks, such as the Company’s, can be more volatile than stocks trading in an active public market. Because of this, the Company stockholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of its common stock in the market, or availability of shares of its common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market prices of the Company’s common stock. The Company, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of its common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sale in the market, would not cause the price of its common stock to decline or impair the Company’s ability to raise capital through sales of its common stock. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to its performance. General market prices declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. The current banking crisis, including the enactment of Emergency Economic Stabilization Action (EESA) and American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), have significantly affected our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or stock price. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers seeming without regard to those issuer’s underlying financial strength. EESA, which established the TARP, was signed into law in October 2008. As part of TARP, the Treasury established the Capital Purchase Program (CPP) to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of preferred shares and other financial instruments with the stated purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On December 12, 2008, the Company accepted an $18.4 million treasury investment of preferred stock with terms that included a 5% dividend that increases to 9% after five years. The Company issued 243,816 common stock warrants that are immediately issued and have a strike price of $11.32 and have a ten year maturity. The amount of common warrants outstanding has been adjusted to 248,692 and the strike price adjusted to $11.098 as a result of a 2% common stock dividend paid on October 18, 2010, to shareholders of record on September 30, 2010. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed ARRA, an economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for a broad range of infrastructure, energy, health and educational needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and the ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and the continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common shares. 35 The Company and the Bank each are required to comply with the terms of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) issued by the OTS and lack of compliance could result in monetary penalties and/or regulatory actions. On April 30, 2010, the Company and the Bank each entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) with the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS). This informal agreement places additional reporting and operational requirements on the Company and Bank. The Bank is required to reduce the level of commercial real estate loans to Total Risk Based Capital. This requirement may result in lower levels of commercial real estate loans, reducing the Bank’s ability to continue to pursue its current strategy to grow its loan portfolio and net interest income. The MOU will remain in effect until stayed, modified, terminated or superseded by the OTS. If the OTS, or after July 21, 2011 the OCC, were to determine that the Company or the Bank were not in compliance with their respective MOUs, it would have available numerous remedies. Management continues to take actions necessary to comply with the MOUs requirements. The OTS or OCC may determine, however, in its sole discretion that the issues raised have not been addressed satisfactorily, or any current or past action, violation or deficiencies could be subject to future regulatory enforcement actions. Such enforcement actions could result in penalties or additional limitations on the Company’s business. There can be no assurance of whether or when the Company may pay dividends in the future. Cash available to pay dividend to our shareholders is derived primarily, if not entirely, from dividends paid to us from the Bank. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us, as well as our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders, is limited by regulatory and legal restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient capital at the Bank. The MOU with the OTS restricts us from declaring or paying any dividends or other capital distributions to common shareholders without prior OTS approval. This dividend restriction does not apply to cash dividends on currently outstanding shares on Series A Preferred Stock issued to and held by the United States Department of the Treasury and obligations in connection with currently outstanding trust preferred securities, provided that such dividend payment or distribution of capital does not cause the Bank’s capital levels to fall below a Tier 1 core capital ratio of 8.00% and a total risk based capital of 12.00%. We may also decide to limit the payment of dividends even when we have the legal ability to pay them in order to retain earnings for use in our business. We are restricted from paying dividends if we have deferred payments of the interest on, or an event of default has occurred with respect to, our trust preferred securities or Series A Preferred Stock. The Company conducts virtually all of its business activities in a geographically concentrated area of Middle and West Tennessee and Western Kentucky. The Company operates eighteen offices located in Middle Tennessee and Western Kentucky. The Company maintains significant business relationships in the markets in which it operates as well as the communities adjoining our offices. Therefore, the Company’s success is directly tied to the economic viability of our markets which may not be representative of the country as a whole. In 2010, the Company’s market had unemployment rates ranging from 9% to 12%. While the Company believes that its credit quality has been strong given the current environment, continued economic stress in the market may result in an increase in non-performing loans and charge offs. Given the limited geographic footprint of our Company, the economic conditions in our marketplace may not be reflective of the entire nation. Management’s analysis of the necessary funding for the allowance for loan loss account may be incorrect or may suddenly change, resulting in lower earnings. The funding of the allowance for loan loss account is the most significant estimate made by management in its financial reporting to shareholders and regulators. If negative changes to the performance of the Company’s loan portfolio were to occur, management may find it necessary or be required to funding the allowance for loan loss account through additional charges to the Company’s provision for loan loss expense. These changes may occur suddenly and be dramatic in nature. These changes are likely to affect the Company’s financial performance, capital levels and stock price. 36 We have increased levels of other real estate owned, primarily as the result of foreclosures, and we anticipate higher levels of real estate expense. As a result in an increase in non-performing loans, the Company has experienced in increase in both the dollar amount and number of other real estate owned properties acquainted through the foreclosure process. The Company ensures numerous types of both operating and non-operating expenses while holding property for sale. Typically, the Company hires a property management company to manage the day to day functions and market the property for sale. These expenses typically included property taxes, property maintenance and repairs. In today’s economic climate, the majority of properties face the significant risk of a decline in value. The Company periodically, but no less than annually, evaluates the market value of each property classified as other real estate owned. The Company recognizes both expenses related to holding the property and any reduction in the market value of the collateral as an expense in the current period. Therefore, holding large amounts of other real estate owned is likely to reduce the Company’s level of interest earning assets, reducing interest income and increasing non-interest expenses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 37 