Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating the Company’s business, you should consider the following discussion of risk factors, in addition to other information contained in this report and in the Company’s other public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Any such risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and prospects. However, the risks described below or incorporated by reference herein are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and prospects.Our financial performance is dependent on international operations, which exposes us to various risks. Our international operations account for nearly all of our total revenues. Our financial performance is subject to risks inherent in operating and expanding our international membership warehouse club business, which include: •changes in, and inconsistent enforcement of laws and regulations, including those related to tariffs and taxes; •the imposition of foreign and domestic governmental controls, including expropriation risks; •trade restrictions; •difficulty and costs associated with international sales and the administration of an international merchandising business; •greater levels of crime and security concerns than in the U.S.; •product registration, permitting and regulatory compliance; •volatility in foreign currency exchange rates; •and general political as well as economic and business conditions.Circumstances relating to these risks may arise, which may then result in disruption to our sales, banking transactions, operations, merchandise shipments, and currency exchange rates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Any failure by us to manage our widely dispersed operations could adversely affect our business. As of August 31, 2014, the Company had in operation 33 consolidated warehouse clubs in operation in 12 countries and one U.S. territory (six in Costa Rica; four each in Panama and Trinidad; three each in Guatemala, Honduras, Colombia and in the Dominican Republic; two in El Salvador; and one each in Aruba, Barbados, Jamaica, Nicaragua and the United States Virgin Islands). We will need to continually evaluate the adequacy of our existing infrastructure, systems and procedures, financial controls, inventory controls and safety controls and make upgrades from time to time. Moreover, we will be required to continually analyze the sufficiency of our inventory distribution channels and systems and may require additional or expanded facilities in 5order to support our operations. We may not adequately anticipate all the changing demands that will be imposed on these systems. Any inability or to effectively update our internal systems or procedures as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We face significant competition. Our international warehouse club business competes with exporters, importers, wholesalers, local retailers and trading companies in various international markets. Some of our competitors have greater resources, buying power and name recognition than we have. In the countries in which we operate, we do not currently face direct competition from U.S. membership warehouse club operators. However, we do face competition from various retail formats such as hypermarkets, supermarkets, cash and carry, home improvement centers, electronic retailers and specialty stores, including those within Latin America that are owned and operated by a large U.S.-based retailer. We have noted that certain retailers are making investments in upgrading their locations which may result in increased competition. Further, it is possible that current U.S. warehouse club operators may decide to enter our markets and compete more directly with us in a similar warehouse club format. We may be required to implement price reductions to remain competitive if any of our competitors reduce prices in any of our markets. Moreover, our ability to operate profitably in our markets, particularly small markets, may be adversely affected by the existence or entry of competing warehouse clubs or discount retailers. During fiscal year 2013, a regional competitor entered into our Barbados market. We responded to that entry by implementing price reductions during the past year to maintain our competitive position thereby reducing our margins and overall profitability within this market. We expect to maintain these price reductions into fiscal year 2015. In addition, Wal-Mart announced that it intends to invest $1.1 billion in its Mexico and Central America markets, which could adversely impact our ability to compete within the Central America market.Future sales growth depends, in part, on our ability to successfully open new warehouse clubs. Sales growth at the existing warehouse clubs can be impacted by, among other things, the physical limitations of the warehouse clubs, which restrict the amount of merchandise that can be safely stored and displayed in the warehouse clubs and the number of members that can be accommodated during business hours. As a result, sales growth will depend, in part, upon our acquiring suitable sites for additional warehouse clubs. Land for purchase or lease, or buildings to be leased, in the size and locations in those markets that would be suitable for new PriceSmart warehouse clubs may be limited in number or not be available or financially feasible. In this regard, we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations. Additionally, local land use and other regulations restricting the construction and operation of our warehouse clubs and environmental regulations may impact our ability to find suitable locations, and increase the cost of constructing, leasing and operating our warehouse clubs. We have experienced these limitations in Colombia and in some of our existing markets, which has negatively affected our growth rates in those markets. Limitations on the availability of appropriate sites for new warehouse clubs in the areas targeted by us could have a material adverse effect on the future growth of PriceSmart. In some cases, we have more than one warehouse club in a single metropolitan area, and we may open new warehouse clubs in certain areas where we already have warehouse clubs. A new warehouse club in an area already served by existing warehouse clubs may draw members away from existing warehouse clubs and adversely affect comparable warehouse club sales performance. We experienced this adverse effect on comparable sales for existing warehouse clubs recently within our Costa Rica and Honduras markets when we opened one new warehouse club in each of these markets in areas that already had an existing warehouse club. We also intend to open warehouse clubs in new markets. The risks associated with entering a new market include potential difficulties in attracting members due to a lack of familiarity with us and our lack of familiarity with local member preferences. In addition, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. As a result, our new warehouse clubs might not be successful in new markets.We might not identify in a timely manner or effectively respond to changes in consumer preferences for merchandise, which could adversely affect our relationship with members, demand for our products and market share. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and respond to trends in demographics and changes in consumer preferences for merchandise. It is difficult to consistently and successfully predict the products and services our members will demand. Failure to timely identify or respond effectively to changing consumer tastes, preferences or spending patterns could adversely affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and our market share. If we are not successful at predicting sales trends and adjusting purchases accordingly, we might experience a reduction in sales and/or have excess inventory resulting in additional markdowns, which could have an adverse effect on margins (net sales less merchandise costs) and operating income.6Although we have begun to offer limited online shopping to our members, our sales could be adversely affected if one or more major international online retailers were to enter our markets or if other competitors were to offer a superior online experience. Online sales currently represent a small fraction of the total sales in our markets of the types of merchandise we offer, but online shopping may become more prevalent in our markets as we and our competitors begin to offer more opportunities for online shopping and as delivery systems in our markets improve. While major international online retailers have not established a significant presence in any of our markets, it is possible that they or smaller regional companies will offer online shopping in our markets. In most markets, our members can order products from our website that are shipped from the U.S. to the members local warehouse club for pickup. In Colombia, members in certain markets can order items for delivery to them from our warehouse clubs. We continue to invest in our websites and systems with the long-term objective of offering our members a seamless multichannel experience. If we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant multichannel experience for our members, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected.We face difficulties in the shipment of and inherent risks in the importation of, merchandise to our warehouse clubs. Our warehouse clubs typically import nearly half or more of the merchandise that they sell. This merchandise originates from various countries and is transported over long distances, typically over water, which results in: •substantial lead times needed between the procurement and delivery of product, thus complicating merchandising and inventory control methods;•the possible loss of product due to theft or potential damage to, or destruction of, ships or containers delivering goods;•product markdowns as a result of its being cost prohibitive to return merchandise upon importation;•product registration, tariffs, customs and shipping regulation issues in the locations we ship to and from; and •ocean freight and duty costs. Moreover, each country in which we operate has different governmental rules and regulations regarding the importation of foreign products. Changes to the rules and regulations governing the importation of merchandise may result in additional delays, costs or barriers in our deliveries of products to our warehouse clubs or may affect the type of products we select to import. In addition, only a limited number of transportation companies service our regions. The inability or failure of one or more key transportation companies to provide transportation services to us, any collusion among the transportation companies regarding shipping prices or terms, changes in the regulations that govern shipping tariffs or the importation of products, or any other disruption to our ability to transport our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are exposed to weather and other natural disaster risks. Our operations are subject to volatile weather conditions and natural disasters, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, which are encountered in the regions in which our warehouse clubs are located and which could result in significant damage to, destruction of, or temporary closure of, our warehouse clubs. Warehouse club closures associated with heavy rains, local flooding and government advisories to stay off the roads during a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, could result in many days of lost sales. Similar risks could negatively affect our business if they were to arise in other points on our international merchandise distribution chain, in particular our distribution centers or ports of origin or destination. Losses from business interruption may not be adequately compensated by insurance and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.General economic conditions could adversely impact our business in various respects. A slowdown in the economies of one or more of the countries in which we operate or adverse changes in economic conditions affecting discretionary consumer spending, such as employment rates, business conditions, inflation, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, interest rates, tax rates and consumer spending patterns in each of our foreign markets, may adversely affect our business by reducing overall consumer purchasing power and could negatively impact our growth, sales and profitability. In addition, a significant decline in the economies of the countries in which our warehouse clubs are located may lead to increased governmental ownership or regulation of the economy, higher interest rates, increased barriers to entry such as higher tariffs and taxes, and reduced demand for goods manufactured in the United States. Factors such as declining expatriate remittances, reduced tourism, and less foreign investment could negatively impact the economies of Latin America and the Caribbean. The potential for economic instability, the impact of a global recession and its duration, the potential for failures or realignments of financial institutions and the related impact on available consumer credit could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced recent economic slowdowns within our Costa Rica, Barbados, Jamaica and Honduras markets. These slowdowns have affected our business by reducing the purchasing power of our members within these markets, impacting our growth of sales and profitability within these markets.7We are subject to risks associated with possible changes in our relationships with third parties with which we do business, as well as the performance of such third parties. We have important ongoing relationships with various third-party suppliers of services and merchandise. These include, but are not limited to, local and regional merchandise suppliers, information technology suppliers, warehouse facilities and equipment suppliers, financial institutions, credit card issuers and processors, and lessors. Significant changes in the relationships or the agreements that govern the terms through which business is conducted could adversely affect our ability to purchase merchandise in sufficient quantities and at competitive prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In this regard, the manner in which we acquire merchandise, either directly from the parent company or through a local subsidiary or distributor, is subject to change from time to time based on changes initiated by the supplier and for reasons beyond our control. Significant changes or disruptions in how we acquire merchandise from these suppliers could negatively affect our access to such merchandise, as well as the cost of merchandise to us and hence our members, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Additionally, our suppliers are subject to risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activities, financial liquidity, inclement weather, natural disasters, supply constraints, regulatory compliance with local and international agencies and general economic and political conditions that could limit their ability to timely provide us with acceptable merchandise, which could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, one or more of our suppliers might fail to comply with appropriate production, labor, environmental and other practices, as well as quality control, legal or regulatory standards. We might not identify any such deficiencies, which could lead to litigation and recalls, damage our reputation and our brands, increase our costs, and otherwise adversely impact our business.We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Failure to adequately maintain our systems and disruptions in our systems could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Given the number of individual transactions we have each year, we seek to maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, and errors by our employees. If our computer systems and back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption in our computer systems could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.We could be subject to additional tax liabilities. We are required to file federal and state tax returns in the United States and various other tax returns in foreign jurisdictions. The preparation of these tax returns requires us to interpret the applicable tax laws and regulations in effect in such jurisdictions, which affects the amount of tax paid by us. We, in consultation with our tax advisors, base our tax returns on interpretations that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The tax returns, however, are subject to routine reviews by the various taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which we file our returns. As part of these reviews, a taxing authority may disagree with respect to the interpretations we used to calculate our tax liability and therefore require us pay additional taxes. In addition, we compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the countries in which we operates. As the tax rates vary among countries, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operates could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. Reviews, interpretations and changes in earnings within jurisdictions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Examples of unresolved tax disputes are as follows:•The Company has unresolved tax disputes, as of August 31, 2014, for which the Company has accrued a net liability of $4.1M for tax matters, $3.1M of which relates to various non-income tax related contingencies, and $1.0M relates to potential net liability for income taxes associated with uncertain tax benefits reduced by timing adjustments which are recorded as deferred income taxes.•Prepayments for tax assessments in two countries that the Company is appealing were recorded for approximately $4.2 million. •Subsequent to the fiscal year ended August 31, 2014, one of the Company’s subsidiaries received provisional assessments for $2.5 million of taxes, penalties and interest related to withholding taxes on certain charges for services rendered by the Company. This subsidiary also received a provisional assessments totaling $5.2 million for lack of deductibility of the underlying service charges, due to the lack of withholding. Based on our interpretation of local law, rulings and 8jurisprudence (including Supreme Court precedence with respect to the deductibility assessment) we expect to prevail in both instances and accordingly did not record a provision for these assessments. A few of our stockholders own approximately 28.1% of our voting stock as of August 31, 2014,which may make it difficult to complete some corporate transactions without their support and may impede a change in control. Robert E. Price, the Company’s Chairman of the Board, and affiliates of Mr. Price, including Price Charities, The Price Group, LLC and various trusts, collectively beneficially own approximately 28.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result of their beneficial ownership, these stockholders have the ability to significantly affect the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. In addition, this ownership could discourage the acquisition of our common stock by potential investors and could have an anti-takeover effect, possibly depressing the trading price of our common stock. Our inability to develop and retain existing key personnel or to attract highly qualified employees could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our success depends to a significant degree on the continued contributions of members of our senior management and other key operations, merchandising and administrative personnel, and the loss of any such person(s) could have a material adverse effect on our business. We must develop and retain a growing number of qualified employees, while controlling related labor costs and maintaining our core values. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these employees and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. There is no assurance that we will be able to adequately develop, retain and attract highly qualified employees in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key man insurance. We are subject to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. As of August 31, 2014, we had a total of 33 warehouse clubs operating in 12 foreign countries and one U.S. territory, 26 of which operate under currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For fiscal year 2014, approximately 79% of our net warehouse club sales were in foreign currencies. We may enter into additional foreign countries in the future or open additional locations in existing countries, which may increase the percentage of net warehouse sales denominated in foreign currencies. We therefore are subject to both economic and political instabilities that can cause volatility in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions. Devaluing local currencies compared to the U.S. dollar could negatively impact the purchasing power of our members in those countries. For example, in February 2014, the Costa Rican Colone devalued approximately 10% compared to the U.S. dollar, which negatively affected sales in that market. Volatility and uncertainties regarding the currencies and economic conditions in the countries where we operate could have a material impact on our operations in future periods. We face the risk of exposure to product liability claims, a product recall and adverse publicity. We market and distribute products purchased from third-party suppliers and products prepared by us for resale, including meat, dairy and other food products, which exposes us to the risk of product liability claims, a product recall and adverse publicity. We may inadvertently redistribute food products or prepare food products that are contaminated, which may result in illness, injury or death if the contaminants are not eliminated by processing at the food service or consumer level. We generally seek contractual indemnification and proof of insurance from our major suppliers and carry product liability insurance for all products sold to our members by us. However, if we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability claims relating to products that are contaminated or otherwise harmful could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully market our products and on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if a product liability claim is not successful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding a product recall or any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could have a material adverse effect on our reputation with existing and potential customers and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If we do not maintain the privacy and security of confidential information, we could damage our reputation, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation.Misappropriation and misuse of confidential information we gather and retain, including certain information about our members, our vendors, our employees and our company, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.9We receive and retain much of this confidential information on our computer systems, and we may at times electronically transmit portions of this confidential information to third parties, who will then store it on their systems or at their facilities. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to computer systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion, we and these third parties may be unable to anticipate such techniques or timely cause adequate preventative measures to be implemented, and as a result the security of our systems, and those of such third parties, may be compromised. A compromise of systems that contain confidential information about our members, our vendors, our employees or our company, which results in confidential information being wrongfully utilized by unauthorized persons, could adversely affect our reputation with our members and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Litigation against us and the imposition of penalties may also result from such misappropriation of personal and business information. In addition, a security breach or compromise of these systems could require that we expend significant additional resources on and modifications of security protocols of our computer systems, which in turn could result in a disruption of our operations, and adversely affect our business. Additionally, the use of individually identifiable data is regulated in the United States and in our operating countries. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative processes. Further, if we, or those with whom we share or store information, fail to comply with these laws and regulations our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subjected to additional legal or financial risk as a result of non-compliance. We are subject to payment related risks.We rely on third parties to provide payment transaction processing services, including the processing of credit and debit cards and the processing of payments to vendors. Our business could be disrupted if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to payment card association rules and network operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change over time. If we fail to comply with these rules or transaction processing requirements, we may not be able to accept certain payment methods. In addition, if our internal systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for banks’ compromised card re-issuance costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and/or debit card payments from our members, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.Changes in accounting standards and assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations.Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. These include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill, merchandise inventories, vendor rebates and other vendor consideration, income taxes, unclaimed property laws and litigation, and other contingent liabilities. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. We face increased public company compliance risks and compliance risks related to our international operations. In the United States and within the international markets where we operate, there are multiple laws and regulations that relate to our business and operations. These laws and regulations are subject to change, and any failure by us to effectively manage our operations and reporting obligations as required by the various laws and regulations can result in our incurring significant legal costs and fines as well as disruptions to our business and operations. Such failure could also result in investors’ loss of confidence in us, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We previously reported that during the third quarter of fiscal year 2014, in the course of voluntary enhancements to our policies and procedures relating to compliance with U.S. sanctions laws, we had determined that 77 of the Company’s approximately 2.2 million members were Cuban nationals, had suspended the shopping privileges of these members, and had reported the results of our investigation to the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC. The majority of these were Cuban ambassadors, diplomats and others working in Cuban embassies or other diplomatic missions in the countries where we operate warehouse clubs. In May 2014, OFAC approved an application filed by us and granted a license expressly authorizing us to make sales to Cuban national diplomats or consular officials and their dependents who are stationed outside Cuba. We also reported that we had begun screening our membership list against OFAC’s list of Specially Designated Nationals (SDNs). We incurred costs to identify and then develop the screening of our membership in order to ensure compliance with OFAC’s list.10We face increased compliance risks associated with compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires management of public companies to evaluate, and the independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our internal controls over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and include those policies and procedures that: •pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and the dispositions of our assets; •provide reasonable assurance that our transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with appropriate authorizations; and •provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. Any failure to effectively implement necessary or appropriate new or improved internal controls, to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation or remediate identified material weaknesses could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations, result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting or the our independent auditors providing an adverse opinion regarding their attestation of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.If remediation costs or hazardous substance contamination levels at certain properties for which we maintain financial responsibility exceed management’s current expectations, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In connection with our spin-off from Price Enterprises, Inc., or PEI, in 1997, we agreed to indemnify PEI for all of PEI's liabilities (including indemnification obligations for environmental liabilities) arising out of PEI's prior ownership of certain properties. Our ownership of real properties and our agreement to indemnify PEI could subject us to certain environmental liabilities. Certain of these properties are located in areas of current or former industrial activity, where environmental contamination may have occurred. We monitor the soil and groundwater at these locations as may be required by law. If we were to incur costs for remediating contamination at these sites which exceed management’s current expectations, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.11 