Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Company Government ownership and control of the Company Major Chinese airlines are wholly- or majority-owned either by the Chinese Government or by provincial or municipal governments in China. CSAHC, an entity wholly-owned by the Chinese Government, holds and exercises the rights of ownership of all of the Domestic Shares or 50.3% of the equity of the Company. The interests of the Chinese Government in the Company and in other Chinese airlines may conflict with the interests of the holders of the ADRs, H Shares and A Shares. The public policy considerations of the Chinese Government in regulating the Chinese commercial aviation industry may also conflict with its indirect ownership interest in the Company. High operating leverage and foreign exchange exposure The airline industry is generally characterized by a high degree of operating leverage. In addition, due to high fixed costs, the expenses relating to the operation of any flight do not vary proportionately with the number of passengers carried, while revenues generated from a flight are directly related to the number of passengers carried and the fare structure of such flight. Accordingly, a decrease in revenues could result in a proportionately higher decrease in net income. Moreover, as the Group has substantial obligations denominated in foreign currencies, its results of operations are significantly affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, particularly for the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen. The Company incurred a net exchange gain of RMB1,492 million and RMB2,832 million for 2006 and 2007, respectively, mainly as a result of Reminbi appreciation. A majority of this exchange gain was unrealized in nature. Liquidity As of December 31, 2007, the Group had net current liabilities position of RMB33,811 million which was due to the use of short-term bank loans for the aircraft acquisitions and other capital expenditures. The Group’s short-term bank loans amounted to RMB24,948 million as at December 31, 2007. In 2008 and thereafter, the liquidity of the Group is primarily dependent on its ability to maintain adequate cash inflows from operations to meet its debt obligations as they fall due, the renewal of its short-term bank loans and on its ability to obtain adequate external financing to meet its committed future capital expenditures. The Group may not be able to meet its debt obligations as they fall due and committed future capital expenditures if certain assumptions about the operations and the availability of external financing on acceptable terms are inaccurate. The Group has obtained firm commitments from its principal bankers to renew its short-term bank loans outstanding as of December 31, 2007 when they fall due during 2008. Subsequent to December 31, 2007 through March 31, 2008, the Group renewed short-term bank loans outstanding of RMB3,179 million. The directors of the Company believe that sufficient financing will be available to the Group, however there can be no assurance that such loan financing will be available on terms acceptable to the Group. Potential conflicts of interest CSAHC will continue to be the controlling shareholder of the Company. CSAHC and certain of its associates will continue to provide certain important services to the Company, including the import and export of aircraft spare parts and other flight equipment, advertising services, provision of air catering , pilot training services, air ticket selling services, cleaning services, property management services, leasing of properties and financial services. In addition, Mr. Liu Shao Yong, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, also serves as the General Manager of CSAHC. The interests of CSAHC may conflict with those of the Company. In addition, any disruption of the provision of services by CSAHC’s associates or a default by CSAHC of its obligations owed to the Company could affect the Company’s operations and financial conditions. In particular, as part of its cash management system, the Company periodically places significant amount of demand deposits with China Southern Airlines Group Finance Company Limited (“SA Finance”), a PRC authorized financial institution controlled by CSAHC and an associate of the Company. As a result, the Company’s deposits with SA Finance are subject to the risks associated with the business of SA Finance over which the Company does not exercise control. As of December 31, 2006 and 2007, the Group had short-term deposits of RMB629 million and RMB906 million, respectively, with SA Finance. 7 Certain transactions between the Company and CSAHC or its associates (as defined in the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Hong Kong Listing Rules”)) will constitute connected transactions of the Company under the Hong Kong Listing Rules and, unless exemptions are applicable or waivers are granted, will be subject to disclosure requirements and/or independent shareholders’ approval in a general meeting. General Economic and Business conditions and natural phenomena The US subprime crisis meltdown is an ongoing economic problem manifesting itself through liquidity issues in the global banking system owing to foreclosures which accelerated in the United States in late 2006 and has an adverse impact on global economy in 2007 and 2008. The financial crisis and other global events may reduce consumer spending or cause shifts in spending. A general reduction or shift in discretionary spending could result in decreased demand for leisure and business travel and can also impact the Company’s ability to raise fares to counteract increased fuel and labor costs. The US subprime crisis added to the global economic slowdown which may also affect the growth of the Chinese economy. Chinese macroeconomic controls such as financing adjustments, credit adjustments, price controls and exchange rate policies will also affect the Chinese economic condition. This domestic economic condition and the increase of jet fuel prices will also affect the development of the aviation industry. In 2008, a number of large-scale natural disasters occurred in China, such as the southern China snow storms in January and the May 12 earthquake in Sichuan province. Disasters such as these can affect the airline industry and the Company by reducing revenues and impacting travel behavior. In summary, both international and domestic economic fluctuations and Chinese macroeconomic controls affect the demand for air travel. Additionally, increasingly strict security measures make air travel a hassle in the eyes of some consumers. These factors can have an uncertain impact on the development of the aviation industry. Risks relating to certain real property Although systems for registration and transfer of land use rights and related real property interests in China have been implemented, such systems do not yet comprehensively account for all land and related property interests. The land in Guangzhou on which the Company’s headquarters and other facilities are located and the buildings that the Company uses at its route bases in Wuhan and Haikou are leased by the Company from CSAHC. However, CSAHC lacks adequate documentation evidencing CSAHC’s rights to such land and buildings, and, as a consequence, the lease agreements between CSAHC and the Company for such land have not been registered with the relevant authorities. As a result, such lease agreements may not be enforceable. Lack of adequate documentation for land use rights and ownership of buildings subjects the Company to challenges and claims by third parties with respect to the Company’s use of such land and buildings. The Company has been occupying all of the land and buildings described above without challenge or claim by third parties. CSAHC has received written assurance from the General Administration of Civil Aviation of China (“CAAC”) to the effect that CSAHC is entitled to continued use and occupancy of the land and certain related buildings and facilities. However, such assurance does not constitute formal evidence of CSAHC’s right to occupy such lands, buildings and facilities or the right to transfer, mortgage or lease such real property interests. The Company cannot predict the magnitude of the adverse effect on its operations if its use of any one or more of these parcels of land or buildings were successfully challenged. CSAHC has agreed to indemnify the Company and Guangzhou Aircraft Maintenance Engineering Company Limited (“GAMECO”), the Company’s jointly controlled entity, against any loss or damage caused by any challenge of, or interference with, the use by the Company and GAMECO of any of their respective land and buildings. Risks associated with Hong Kong and Macau routes The Company’s Hong Kong regional routes benefit from traffic originating in Taiwan. Apart from temporary lifts of the ban on direct flights between Taiwan and Mainland China during the Lunar Chinese New Year and the Mid-Autumn Festival, travelers between Taiwan and China have had to make use of intermediate stops in Hong Kong or elsewhere. In such event, Xiamen Airlines Company Limited (“Xiamen Airlines”), the Company’s subsidiary, might apply for route rights for direct flights between Taiwan and Mainland China, due partly to the proximity to Taiwan of Fujian province, where Xiamen Airlines is based. However, there can be no assurance that sufficient routes and flights between destinations in Taiwan and Mainland China could be obtained by Xiamen Airlines, if at all, or that adequate yields will be generated on these routes and flights. 8 Terrorist attacks or the fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the Company and the airline industry. The travel industry continues to face on-going security concerns and cost burdens. The aviation industry as a whole has been beset with high-profile terrorist attacks, most notably on September 11, 2001 in the United States. The issue could also affect China. Notably, on March 7, 2008, on a China Southern Airlines flight boarding in Urumqi, crew members discovered a suspected terrorist. Thereafter, the CAAC implemented increased security measures. Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the Company and the airline industry. Among possible effects that the Company could experience from terrorist attacks are substantial flight disruption costs caused by grounding of fleet, significant increase of security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and revenue per revenue passenger mile. Risks associated with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to evaluate internal controls over financial reporting The United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company in the United States to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm may not be satisfied with our internal controls, the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated and reviewed, or our independent registered public accounting firm may interpret the requirements, rules and regulations differently from us, then it may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting are not effective. Although our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 was effective, we may discover other deficiencies in the course of our future evaluation of our internal control over our financial reporting and may be unable to remediate such deficiencies in a timely manner. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal control is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading prices of our ADRs, H Shares or A Shares. Passive Foreign Investment Company Depending upon the value of our shares and ADRs and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company believes that it was not a PFIC for the taxable year 2007. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be a PFIC for the taxable year 2008 and/or later taxable years, as PFIC status is re-tested each year and depends on the facts in such year. The Company will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either: (1) the average percentage value of its gross assets during the taxable year that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the value of its total gross assets or (2) 75% or more of its gross income for the taxable year is passive income (such as certain dividends, interest or royalties). For purposes of the first test: (1) any cash, cash equivalents, and cash invested in short-term, interest bearing, debt instruments, or bank deposits that is readily convertible into cash, will generally count as producing passive income or held for the production of passive income and (2) the average value of the Company’s gross assets is calculated based on its market capitalization. If the Company were a PFIC, you would generally be subject to additional taxes and interest charges on certain “excess” distributions the Company makes and on any gain realized on the disposition or deemed disposition of your ADRs, regardless of whether the Company continues to be a PFIC in the year in which you receive an “excess” distribution or dispose of or are deemed to dispose of your ADRs. Distributions in respect of your ADRs during a taxable year would generally constitute “excess” distributions if, in the aggregate, they exceed 125% of the average amount of distributions in respect of your ADRs over the three preceding taxable years or, if shorter, the portion of your holding period before such taxable year. For more information on the United States federal income tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see Item 10, “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company”. 9 Risks Relating to the Chinese Commercial Aviation Industry Government regulation The Company’s ability to implement its business strategy will continue to be affected by regulations and policies issued or implemented by the CAAC, which encompasses substantially all aspects of the Chinese commercial aviation industry, including the approval of domestic, Hong Kong regional and international route allocation, air fares, aircraft acquisition, jet fuel prices and standards for aircraft maintenance, airport operations and air traffic control. Such regulations and policies limit the flexibility of the Company to respond to market conditions, competition or changes in the Company’s cost structure. The implementation of specific CAAC policies could from time to time adversely affect the Company’s operations. The CAAC has confirmed in writing that the Company will be treated equally with other Chinese airlines with respect to certain matters regulated by the CAAC. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the CAAC will, in all circumstances, apply its regulations and policies in a manner that results in equal treatment of all airlines. Jet fuel supply and costs The availability and cost of jet fuel have a significant impact on the Group’s results of operations. The Group’s jet fuel costs for 2007 accounted for 62.98% of its flight operations expenses. All of the domestic jet fuel requirements of Chinese airlines (other than at the Shenzhen, Zhuhai and Sanya airports) must be purchased from the exclusive providers, China Aviation Oil Supplies Company (“CAOSC”) and Bluesky Oil Supplies Company, companies controlled and supervised by the CAAC. Chinese airlines may also purchase their jet fuel requirements at the Shenzhen, Zhuhai and Sanya airports from joint ventures in which the CAOSC is a partner. Jet fuel obtained from the CAOSC’s regional branches is purchased at uniform prices throughout China that are determined and adjusted by the CAOSC from time to time with the approval of the CAAC and the pricing department of the State Planning Commission based on market conditions and other factors. As a result, the costs of transportation and storage of jet fuel in all regions of China are spread among all domestic airlines. Prior to 1994, domestic jet fuel prices were generally below international jet fuel prices. From 1994 to 2006, however, CAOSC's domestic jet fuel prices were above international jet fuel prices, sometimes creating tensions over the fuel supply. In 2007, the domestic price of jet fuel from CAOSC was below international jet fuel prices. However, given the rapid increase and constant fluctuation in world oil prices, there is no way to assure that domestic prices for jet fuel do not fluctuate as well. In addition, jet fuel shortages have occurred in China and, on some rare occasions prior to 1993, required the Company to delay or even cancel flights. Although such shortages have not materially affected the Company’s operations since 1993, there can be no assurance that such a shortage will not occur in the future. If such a shortage occurs in the future and the Company is forced to delay or cancel flights due to fuel shortage, its operational reputation among passengers as well as its operations may suffer. A change in annual average price of US$1 per tonne of jet fuel affects the Group’s annual fuel costs by approximately RMB22 million, assuming no change in volume of fuel consumed. Accordingly, even if the jet fuel supply remains uninterrupted, increases in jet fuel prices will nevertheless adversely impact our financial results. Infrastructure limitations The rapid increase in air traffic volume in China in recent years has put pressure on many components of the Chinese commercial aviation industry, including China’s air traffic control system, the availability of qualified flight personnel and airport facilities. Airlines, such as the Company, which have route networks that emphasize short- to medium-haul routes, are generally more affected by insufficient aviation infrastructure in terms of on-time performance and high operating costs due to fuel inefficiencies resulting from the relatively short segments flown, as well as the relatively high proportion of time on the ground during turnaround. All of these factors may adversely affect the perception of the service provided by an airline and, consequently, the airline’s operating results. In recent years, the CAAC has placed increasing emphasis on the safety of Chinese airline operations and has implemented measures aimed at improving the safety record of the industry. The ability of the Company to increase utilization rates and to provide safe and efficient air transportation in the future will depend in part on factors such as the improvement of national air traffic control and navigation systems and ground control operations at Chinese airports, factors which are beyond the control of the Company. 10 Competition The CAAC’s extensive regulation of the Chinese commercial aviation industry has had the effect of managing competition among Chinese airlines. Nevertheless, competition has become increasingly intense in recent years due to a number of factors, including relaxation of certain regulations by the CAAC and an increase in the capacity, routes and flights of Chinese airlines. Competition in the Chinese commercial aviation industry has led to widespread price-cutting practices that do not in all respects comply with applicable regulations. Until the interpretation of CAAC regulations limiting such price-cutting has been finalized and strictly enforced, discounted tickets from competitors will continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s sales. The Company faces varying degrees of competition on its Hong Kong and Macau regional routes from certain Chinese airlines and Cathay Pacific Airways, Dragonair and Air Macau, and on its international routes, primarily from non-Chinese airlines, most of which have significantly longer operating histories, substantially greater financial and technological resources and greater name recognition than the Company. In addition, the public’s perception of the safety and service records of Chinese airlines could adversely affect the Company’s ability to compete against its Hong Kong regional and international competitors. Many of the Company’s international competitors have larger sales networks and participate in reservation systems that are more comprehensive and convenient than those of the Company, or engage in promotional activities, that may enhance their ability to attract international passengers. Limitation on foreign ownership Chinese Government policies limit foreign ownership in Chinese airlines. Under these policies, the percentage ownership of the Company’s total outstanding ordinary shares held by investors in Hong Kong and any country outside China (“Foreign Investors”) may not in the aggregate exceed 49%. Currently, 26.8% of the total outstanding ordinary shares of the Company are held by Foreign Investors. For so long as the limitation on foreign ownership is in force, the Company will have no meaningful access to the international equity capital markets. Risks relating to the PRC Foreign exchange risks Under current Chinese foreign exchange regulations, Renminbi is fully convertible for current account transactions, but is not freely convertible for capital account transactions. All foreign exchange transactions involving Renminbi must take place either through the People’s Bank of China (“PBOC”) or other institutions authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange or at a swap centre. The Group has significant exposure to foreign currency risk as substantially all of the Group’s lease obligations and bank and other loans are denominated in foreign currencies, principally US dollars and Japanese Yen. Depreciation or appreciation of the Renminbi against foreign currencies affects the Group’s results significantly because the Group’s foreign currency payments generally exceed its foreign currency receipts. The Group is not able to hedge its foreign currency exposure effectively other than by retaining its foreign currency denominated earnings and receipts to the extent permitted by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or subject to certain restrictive conditions, entering into forward foreign exchange contracts with authorized banks. The Group also has exposure to foreign currency risk in respect of net cash inflow denominated in Japanese Yen from ticket sales in overseas branch office after payment of expenses. The Group entered into certain foreign exchange forward option contracts to manage this foreign currency risk. 11 The exchange rate of Renminbi to US dollar was set by the PBOC and had fluctuated within a narrow band prior to 21 July 2005. Since then, a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of foreign currencies has been used and US dollar exchange rate has gradually declined against the Renminbi. Developing legal system The Company is organized under the laws of China. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes and is a system, unlike common law systems, in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. Since 1979, the Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws and considerable progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters, such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investments, commerce, taxation and trade. These laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and, like other laws, regulations and legal requirements applicable in China (including with respect to the commercial aviation industry), their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainties. PRC new tax law On 16 March 2007, the Fifth Plenary Session of the Tenth National People’s Congress passed the Corporate Income Tax Law of the PRC (“new tax law”) which has taken effect from January 1, 2008. The Company and certain subsidiaries of the Group were entitled to preferential income tax rates in the range of 15% to 27%. According to the new tax law, the income tax rate of companies who enjoyed preferential income tax rates lower than 25% in 2007 is expected to increase to the standard rate of 25% within five-year transition period. Pursuant to the new tax law, the income tax rates of entities that previously enjoyed preferential tax rates of 15% and 18% shall be levied to 18%, 20%, 22%, 24% and 25% for 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 respectively. Taxation of holders of H Shares or ADR by China The new tax law generally provides for the imposition of a withholding tax on dividends paid by a Chinese company to a non-resident enterprise at a rate of 10%. For individuals, Chinese tax law generally provides that an individual who receives dividends from the Company is subject to a 20% income tax. Currently, dividend income received by any foreign individual that holds overseas shares in any Chinese domestic enterprise is temporarily exempt from income tax. In the event that the exemption is discontinued, such payments will be subject to individual income tax at the 20% rate unless the holder is entitled to a tax waiver or a lower tax rate under an applicable double-taxation treaty. ITEM 