Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Company Government ownership and control of the Company Major Chinese airlines are wholly- or majority-owned either by the Chinese Government or by provincial or municipal governments in China. CSAHC, an entity wholly-owned by the Chinese Government, holds and exercises the rights of ownership of all of the Domestic Shares or 50.3% of the equity of the Company. The interests of the Chinese Government in the Company and in other Chinese airlines may conflict with the interests of the holders of the ADSs, H Shares and A Shares. The public policy considerations of the Chinese Government in regulating the Chinese commercial aviation industry may also conflict with its indirect ownership interest in the Company. High operating leverage and foreign exchange exposure The airline industry is generally characterized by a high degree of operating leverage. In addition, due to high fixed costs, the expenses relating to the operation of any flight do not vary proportionately with the number of passengers carried, while revenues generated from a flight are directly related to the number of passengers carried and the fare structure of such flight. Accordingly, a decrease in revenues could result in a proportionately higher decrease in net income. Moreover, as the Group has substantial obligations denominated in foreign currencies, its results of operations are significantly affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, particularly for the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen. The Company incurred a net exchange gain of RMB1,220 million and RMB1,492 million for 2005 and 2006, respectively, mainly as a result of Reminbi appreciation. A majority of this exchange gain was unrealized in nature. Liquidity As of December 31, 2006, the Group had net current liabiliies position of RMB32,180 million which was due to the use of short-term notes payable for the aircraft acquisitions and other capital expenditures. The Group’s short-term notes payable amounted to RMB23,822 million as at December 31, 2006. The liquiditiy of the Group primarily depends on its ability to maintain adequate cash inflows from operations and to obtain adequate external finance. The Group may not be able to meet its debt obligations as they fall due and committed future capital expenditures. Potential conflicts of interest CSAHC will continue to be the controlling shareholder of the Company. CSAHC and certain of its affiliated companies will continue to provide certain important services to the Company, including the import and export of aircraft spare parts and other flight equipment, advertising services, provision of air catering and cabin supplies, pilot training services, air ticket selling services, cleaning services, leasing of properties and financial services. In addition, Mr. Liu Shao Yong, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, also serves as the General Manager of CSAHC. The interests of CSAHC may conflict with those of the Company. In addition, any disruption of the provision of services by CSAHC’s affiliated companies or a default by CSAHC of its obligations owed to the Company could affect the Company’s operations and financial conditions. In particular, as part of its cash management system, the Company periodically places significant amount of demand deposits with China Southern Airlines Group Finance Company Limited (“SA Finance”), a PRC authorized financial institution controlled by CSAHC and an affiliated company of the Company. As a result, the Company’s deposits with SA Finance are subject to the risks associated with the business of SA Finance over which the Company does not exercise control. As of December 31, 2005 and 2006, the Group had short-term deposits of RMB 544 million and RMB 629 million, respectively, with SA Finance. 8 Certain transactions between the Company and CSAHC or its affiliates (as defined in the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Hong Kong Listing Rules”)) will constitute connected transactions of the Company under the Hong Kong Listing Rules and, unless exemptions are applicable or waivers are granted, will be subject to disclosure requirements and/or independent shareholders’ approval in a general meeting. Risks relating to certain real property Although systems for registration and transfer of land use rights and related real property interests in China have been implemented, such systems do not yet comprehensively account for all land and related property interests. The land in Guangzhou on which the Company’s headquarters and other facilities are located and the buildings that the Company uses at its route bases in Wuhan, Haikou and Zhengzhou are leased by the Company from CSAHC. However, CSAHC lacks adequate documentation evidencing CSAHC’s rights to such land and buildings, and, as a consequence, the lease agreements between CSAHC and the Company for such land have not been registered with the relevant authorities. As a result, such lease agreements may not be enforceable. Lack of adequate documentation for land use rights and ownership of buildings subjects the Company to challenges and claims by third parties with respect to the Company’s use of such land and buildings. The Company has been occupying all of the land and buildings described above without challenge or claim by third parties. CSAHC has received written assurance from the General Administration of Civil Aviation of China (“CAAC”) to the effect that CSAHC is entitled to continued use and occupancy of the land and certain related buildings and facilities. However, such assurance does not constitute formal evidence of CSAHC’s right to occupy such lands, buildings and facilities or the right to transfer, mortgage or lease such real property interests. The Company cannot predict the magnitude of the adverse effect on its operations if its use of any one or more of these parcels of land or buildings were successfully challenged. CSAHC has agreed to indemnify the Company and Guangzhou Aircraft Maintenance Engineering Company Limited (“GAMECO”), the Company’s jointly controlled entity, against any loss or damage caused by any challenge of, or interference with, the use by the Company and GAMECO of any of their respective land and buildings. Risks associated with Hong Kong and Macau routes The Company’s Hong Kong regional routes benefit from traffic originating in Taiwan. The Company’s Hong Kong regional routes might be materially adversely affected if direct flights between Taiwan and Mainland China were permitted in the future. In such event, Xiamen Airlines Company Limited (“Xiamen Airlines”), the Company’s subsidiary, might apply for route rights for direct flights between Taiwan and Mainland China, due partly to the proximity to Taiwan of Fujian province, where Xiamen Airlines is based. However, there can be no assurance that sufficient routes and flights between destinations in Taiwan and Mainland China could be obtained by Xiamen Airlines, if at all, or that adequate yields will be generated on these routes and flights. Risks associated with increased costs from the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 to evaluate internal controls over financial reporting Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 requires that the Company evaluates and reports on the effectiveness of internal controls in providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of Financial Reporting. The initial compliance date for management to evaluate and report on internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 for Foreign Accelerated Filers is for the financial year ending on or after July 15, 2006. The Company has prepared and implemented an internal plan for compliance and has completed the process of documenting and testing the system of internal controls over financial reporting to provide the basis for this report for the year ending December 31, 2006, which is set out in Item 15. The requirement to provide an auditors’ report on internal controls over financial reporting of the Group will apply for the financial year ending December 31, 2007. Due to ongoing evaluation and testing of the Company’s internal controls and the uncertainties of the interpretation of these new requirements, the Company cannot assure that there will not be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that would be required to be reported. In the event that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses are reported, investor perceptions may be adversely affected and may cause a decline in the market price of our stock. The Company has incurred increased costs and has dedicated an increased amount of management time and external resources in order to comply with the above legislation by the end of 2006 and may continue to do so in years to come. The process of documenting and testing the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting and considering improvements has required the Company to hire additional personnel and outside advisory services, resulting in additional accounting and consultancy expenses. Passive Foreign Investment Company Depending upon the value of our shares and ADSs and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company believes that it was not a PFIC for the taxable year 2006. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be a PFIC for the taxable year 2007 and/or later taxable years, as PFIC status is re-tested each year and depends on the facts in such year. The Company will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either: (1) the average percentage value of its gross assets during the taxable year that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the value of its total gross assets or (2) 75% or more of its gross income for the taxable year is passive income (such as certain dividends, interest or royalties). For purposes of the first test: (1) any cash, cash equivalents, and cash invested in short-term, interest bearing, debt instruments, or bank deposits that is readily convertible into cash, will generally count as producing passive income or held for the production of passive income and (2) the average value of the Company’s gross assets is calculated based on its market capitalization. If the Company were a PFIC, you would generally be subject to additional taxes and interest charges on certain “excess” distributions the Company makes and on any gain realized on the disposition or deemed disposition of your ADSs, regardless of whether the Company continues to be a PFIC in the year in which you receive an “excess” distribution or dispose of or are deemed to dispose of your ADSs. Distributions in respect of your ADSs during a taxable year would generally constitute “excess” distributions if, in the aggregate, they exceed 125% of the average amount of distributions in respect of your ADSs over the three preceding taxable years or, if shorter, the portion of your holding period before such taxable year. For more information on the United States federal income tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see Item 10, “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company”. 9 Risks Relating to the Chinese Commercial Aviation Industry Government regulation The Company’s ability to implement its business strategy will continue to be affected by regulations and policies issued or implemented by the CAAC, which encompasses substantially all aspects of the Chinese commercial aviation industry, including the approval of domestic, Hong Kong regional and international route allocation, air fares, aircraft acquisition, jet fuel prices and standards for aircraft maintenance, airport operations and air traffic control. Such regulations and policies limit the flexibility of the Company to respond to market conditions, competition or changes in the Company’s cost structure. The implementation of specific CAAC policies could from time to time adversely affect the Company’s operations. The CAAC has confirmed in writing that the Company will be treated equally with other Chinese airlines with respect to certain matters regulated by the CAAC. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the CAAC will, in all circumstances, apply its regulations and policies in a manner that results in equal treatment of all airlines. Jet fuel supply and costs The availability and cost of jet fuel have a significant impact on the Group’s results of operations. The Group’s jet fuel costs for 2006 accounted for 35.2% of its operating expenses. All of the domestic jet fuel requirements of Chinese airlines (other than at the Shenzhen, Zhuhai and Sanya airports) must be purchased from the exclusive providers, China Aviation Oil Supplies Company (“CAOSC”) and Bluesky Oil Supplies Company, companies controlled and supervised by the CAAC. Chinese airlines may also purchase their jet fuel requirements at the Shenzhen, Zhuhai and Sanya airports from joint ventures in which the CAOSC is a partner. Jet fuel obtained from the CAOSC’s regional branches is purchased at uniform prices throughout China that are determined and adjusted by the CAOSC from time to time with the approval of the CAAC and the pricing department of the State Planning Commission based on market conditions and other factors. As a result, the costs of transportation and storage of jet fuel in all regions of China are spread among all domestic airlines. Prior to 1994, domestic jet fuel prices were generally below international jet fuel prices. Since then, however, the domestic jet fuel price from CAOSC has always been higher than international jet fuel prices, sometimes creating tension in fuel supply. In addition, jet fuel shortages have occurred in China and, on limited occasions before 1993, required the Company to delay or cancel flights. Although such shortages have not materially affected the Company’s results of operations since 1993, there can be no assurance that such shortage will not occur in the future. If such shortage occurs in the future and the Company is forced to delay or cancel flights due to fuel shortage, its operational reputation among passengers and results of operations may suffer. Infrastructure limitations The rapid increase in air traffic volume in China in recent years has put pressure on many components of the Chinese commercial aviation industry, including China’s air traffic control system, the availability of qualified flight personnel and airport facilities. Airlines, such as the Company, which have route networks that emphasize short- to medium-haul routes are generally more affected by insufficient aviation infrastructure in terms of on-time performance and high operating costs due to fuel inefficiencies resulting from the relatively short segments flown, as well as the relatively high proportion of time on the ground during turnaround. All of these factors may adversely affect the perception of the service provided by an airline and, consequently, the airline’s operating results. In recent years, the CAAC has placed increasing emphasis on the safety of Chinese airline operations and has implemented measures aimed at improving the safety record of the industry. The ability of the Company to increase utilization rates and to provide safe and efficient air transportation in the future will depend in part on factors such as the improvement of national air traffic control and navigation systems and ground control operations at Chinese airports, factors which are beyond the control of the Company. Competition The CAAC’s extensive regulation of the Chinese commercial aviation industry has had the effect of managing competition among Chinese airlines. Nevertheless, competition has become increasingly intense in recent years due to a number of factors, including relaxation of certain regulations by the CAAC and an increase in the capacity, routes and flights of Chinese airlines. Competition in the Chinese commercial aviation industry has led to widespread price-cutting practices that do not in all respects comply with applicable regulations. Until the interpretation of CAAC regulations limiting such price-cutting has been finalized and strictly enforced, discounted tickets from competitors will continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s sales. The Company faces varying degrees of competition on its Hong Kong regional routes from certain Chinese airlines and Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Limited and on its international routes, primarily from non-Chinese airlines, most of which have significantly longer operating histories, substantially greater financial and technological resources and greater name recognition than the Company. In addition, the public’s perception of the safety and service records of Chinese airlines could adversely affect the Company’s ability to compete against its Hong Kong regional and international competitors. Many of the Company’s international competitors have larger sales networks and participate in reservation systems that are more comprehensive and convenient than those of the Company, or engage in promotional activities, that may enhance their ability to attract international passengers. Limitation on foreign ownership Chinese Government policies limit foreign ownership in Chinese airlines. Under these policies, the percentage ownership of the Company’s total outstanding ordinary shares held by investors in Hong Kong and any country outside China (“Foreign Investors”) may not in the aggregate exceed 49%. Currently, 26.8% of the total outstanding ordinary shares of the Company are held by Foreign Investors. For so long as the limitation on foreign ownership is in force, the Company will have no meaningful access to the international equity capital markets. 10 Consolidation and Restructuring In 2000, the CAAC announced a restructuring plan with respect to the PRC aviation industry. Pursuant to such restructuring plan, each domestic airline was directed to consolidate into one of the three major airline groups in China: CSAHC, China National Aviation Holding Company and China Eastern Air Holding Group. As approved by the Company’s shareholders in an extraordinary general meeting on December 31, 2004, the Company acquired the airline operations and certain related assets of CNA and XJA. This consolidation and restructuring pursuant to the CAAC restructuring plan may involve uncertainties and risks over a long period of time, including the following: · failure to achieve the anticipated synergies, cost savings or revenue enhancing opportunities resulting from the restructuring activities; · diversion of management’s attention from existing business concerns and other business opportunities of the Group; · difficulty in integrating the assets and business of other airlines, including its employees, corporate culture, managerial systems and processes, business information systems and services; · difficulty in exercising control and supervision over various new operations within the Group; · failure to retain key personnel; and · increase in financial pressure due to assumption of recorded / unrecorded liabilities of the acquired businesses. The inability to manage additional businesses or integrate successfully the acquired businesses without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems, or the occurrence of one or more of the events enumerated above, could materially adversely affect the Group’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to the PRC Foreign exchange risks Under current Chinese foreign exchange regulations, Renminbi is fully convertible for current account transactions, but is not freely convertible for capital account transactions. Current account foreign exchange transactions can be undertaken without prior approval from the relevant Chinese Government agencies by producing commercial documents evidencing such transactions, provided that they are processed through Chinese banks licensed to engage in foreign exchange transactions. Conversion from Renminbi into a foreign currency or vice versa for purposes of capital account transactions requires the prior approval of relevant Chinese Government agencies. This restriction on capital account transactions could affect the ability of the Company to acquire foreign currency for capital expenditures. It could also have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations and financial condition, given the Company's substantial foreign currency obligations. The value of the Renminbi against the US dollar and other foreign currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China's political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar so that the Renminbi is now permitted to fluctuate within a band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. On May 18, 2007, the People’s Bank of China announced that the floating band of Renminbi would be permitted to rise or fall by as much as 0.5%. The PRC government has stated publicly that it intends to further liberalize its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant change in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As the Company is not able to hedge effectively against the revaluation of the Renminbi other than by retaining its foreign currencies which it receives from its business and operational activities to the extent permitted by applicable law, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial performance, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, the Company's H Shares and ADSs in foreign currency terms. Developing legal system The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes and is a system, unlike common law systems, in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, China began to promulgate a more comprehensive system of laws. On December 29, 1993, the Chinese National People’s Congress promulgated the Company Law, which became effective on July 1, 1994. In August 1994, pursuant to the Company Law, the PRC State Council issued the PRC Special Regulations on Overseas Offering and Listing of Shares by Companies Limited by Shares to regulate joint stock companies that offer and list their shares overseas. These laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and, like other laws, regulations and legal requirements applicable in China (including with respect to the commercial aviation industry), their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainties. New tax law On March 16, 2007, the Fifth Plenary Session of the Tenth National People’s Congress passed the Corporate Income Tax Law of the People’s Republic of China (“new tax law”) which will take effect on January 1, 2008. The Company and certain subsidiaries of the Group are entitled to preferential income tax rates in the range of 15% to 27%. From January 1, 2008, the income tax rate of companies who are currently enjoying preferential income tax rates lower than 25% is expected to increase to the standard rate of 25% over a five-year transition period. However, the new tax law has not set out the details as to how the existing preferential tax rate will increase to the standard rate of 25%. It is uncertain whether the Group will be required to pay higher enterprise income tax when the implementation guidance of the new tax law is issued. Taxation of holders of H Shares or ADS by China Chinese tax law generally provides for the imposition of a withholding tax on dividends paid by a Chinese company to a non-Chinese shareholder at a rate of 20%. In a notice and a letter issued by the State Taxation Bureau of the PRC, however, the Chinese tax authorities confirmed that the imposition of this withholding tax on dividends paid by joint stock companies, such as the Company, had been suspended. Accordingly, for so long as this imposition is suspended and not replaced or supplemented with similar requirements, any future dividends to be paid by the Company to holders of H Shares or ADS who are foreign individuals not resident in China or which are foreign enterprises with no permanent establishment in China will not be subject to a Chinese withholding tax. In the event that the suspension of the withholding tax is lifted, such payments will be subject to withholding tax at the 20% rate unless the holder is entitled to a tax waiver or a lower tax rate under an applicable double-taxation treaty. See Item 10 “Additional Information — Taxation”. 11 ITEM 