ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our Company is subject to certain risks. The following is a summary of certain risks identified by us as affecting our business. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making a decision as to whether to invest in our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In that event, the value of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. These risk factors may cause our future earnings to be lower or our financial condition to be less favorable than we expect. In addition, other risks of which we are not aware, which relate to the banking and financial services industries in general, may cause earnings to be lower, or hurt our future financial condition. You should read this section together with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to our Industry and Business If economic conditions continue to deteriorate our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected as borrowers’ ability to repay loans declines and the value of the collateral securing our loans decreases. The capital and credit markets have been extremely volatile for over twelve months and there have been significant declines in the residential real estate market during the same period. As a result, we continue to experience weaknesses in our residential construction, home equity, commercial mortgage and one-to-four family residential loan portfolios as loan delinquencies increase, collateral values decline and the potential for foreclosures increases. Although our commercial loan portfolio continues to perform well given the current instability in the economy, a worsening of these conditions may adversely impact this portfolio. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits or borrowings. In addition, our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. Therefore, in addition to worsening performance of our current portfolio, our ability to make loans currently and in the foreseeable future has been impacted, which will likely adversely affect our ability to generate interest income at levels consistent with historic performance. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not expect improvement in these current market conditions in the near future, which will continue to negatively impact the market value of collateral securing the loans in our portfolio, our customers’ ability to repay outstanding loans and our ability to both lend and borrow. As a result, we expect current market conditions will continue to negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. The recently enacted EESA authorizes Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under a troubled asset relief program, or “TARP.” The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. The Treasury has allocated $250 billion towards the TARP CPP. Under the TARP CPP, Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2009 and is not covered by deposit insurance premiums paid by the banking industry. 7 The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, the U.S. Congress, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the foregoing or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. In addition, current initiatives of President Obama’s Administration and the possible enactment of recently proposed bankruptcy legislation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is likely to face increased regulation and supervision as a result of the existing financial crisis, and there may be additional requirements and conditions imposed on the Company as a result of our participation in the TARP CPP. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. The effects of such recently enacted, and proposed, legislation and regulatory programs on the Company cannot reliably be determined at this time. Our focus on and concentration of commercial and real estate loans may increase the risk of credit losses. We offer a variety of loans including commercial business loans, commercial real estate loans, residential mortgage loans, construction loans, home equity loans and consumer loans. We secure many of our loans with real estate (both residential and commercial) in Anne Arundel County, a suburb of Baltimore, Maryland and Washington, D.C.; currently 75% of our loan portfolio consists of mortgage and residential and commercial real estate loans, including construction and home equity loans. While we believe our credit underwriting adequately considers the underlying collateral in the evaluation process, the recent real estate downturn has adversely impacted our loan portfolio. Further deterioration in the commercial and residential real estate market could cause further deterioration in the collateral securing these loans. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying collateral (i.e. the real estate) would decrease, and we would suffer additional losses on defaulted loans. This would adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our allowance for credit losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any potential losses in our loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we review and evaluate, among other things, our loans and our loss and delinquency experience and current economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability depends on interest rates and changes in monetary policy may impact us. Our results of operations depend to a large extent on our “net interest income,” which is the difference between the interest expense incurred in connection with our interest-bearing liabilities, such as interest on deposit accounts, and the interest income received from our interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments. Interest rates, because they are influenced by, among other things, expectations about future events, including the level of economic activity, federal monetary and fiscal policy and geo-political stability, are not predictable or controllable. In addition, competitive factors heavily influence the interest rates we can earn on our loan and investment portfolios and the interest rates we pay on our deposits. Community banks are often at a competitive disadvantage in managing their cost of funds compared to the large regional, super-regional or national banks that have access to the national and international capital markets. These factors influence our ability to maintain a stable interest margin. Because BankAnnapolis serves a limited market area in Maryland, an economic downturn in our market area could more adversely affect us than it affects our larger competitors that are more geographically diverse. Our current market area consists of the Maryland county of Anne Arundel, a suburb of Baltimore, Maryland and Washington, D.C. and, to a lesser extent, Queen 8 Anne’s County, Maryland. As a community bank, we do not intend to have a broad geographic diversification. As a result, if the current or future economic downturns affects our market area to a greater extent than other areas of the country, or if our market area experiences economic problems that do not affect a larger portion of the country, such conditions may more severely affect our business and financial condition than it affects our larger bank competitors. Our larger competitors serve more geographically diverse market areas, parts of which may not be affected by the same economic conditions that may exist in our market area. We may be required to raise capital in the future, but that capital may not be available or may not be on acceptable terms when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate capital levels to support operations. Our ability to raise additional capital is dependent on capital market conditions at that time and on our financial performance. Current market conditions have made it harder to access capital, due to both decreased stock prices and the general decrease in available credit. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand operations through internal growth and deposit gathering could be materially impaired. We face substantial competition which could adversely affect our growth and operating results. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with, among others, commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, mutual funds and insurance companies operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these financial institutions have been in business for many years, are significantly larger, have established customer bases, have greater financial resources and lending limits than we do, and are able to offer certain services that we do not or can not offer. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by our competition may limit our ability to increase our interest earning assets. We face limits on our ability to lend. We are limited in the amount we can loan to a single borrower by the amount of our capital. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. As of December 31, 2008, we were able to lend approximately $5.0 million to any one borrower. This amount is significantly less than that of many of our competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our legal lending limit from doing business with us. We generally try to accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy is not always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain customers seeking larger loans and we may not be able to sell participations in such loans on terms we consider favorable. Rising interest rates may hurt our profits. To be profitable, we have to earn more money in interest we receive on loans and investments than we pay to our depositors and lenders in interest. If interest rates rise, our net interest income and the value of our assets could be reduced if interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, increases more quickly than interest received on interest-earning assets, such as loans, other mortgage-related investments and investment securities. This is most likely to occur if short-term interest rates increase at a faster rate than long-term interest rates, which would cause income to go down. In addition, rising interest rates may hurt our income, because they may reduce the demand for loans, and the value of our securities. Our need to comply with extensive and complex governmental regulation could have an adverse effect on our business and our growth strategy. The banking industry is subject to extensive regulation by state and federal banking authorities. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public or the FDIC insurance funds, not stockholders. Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our rate of growth and changes in regulations could adversely affect us. The burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and BankAnnapolis specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. In addition, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. In addition, because federal regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, we cannot forecast how federal regulation of financial institutions may change in the future and impact our operations. Although Congress in recent years has sought to reduce the regulatory burden on financial institutions with respect to the approval of specific transactions, we fully expect that the financial institution industry will remain heavily regulated in the near future and that additional laws or regulations may be adopted further regulating specific banking practices. In addition, as a result of the current market turmoil, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. This increased government action may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We depend on the services of key personnel. The loss of any of these personnel could disrupt our operations and our business could suffer. Our success depends substantially on the skills and abilities of our senior management team, including Richard M. Lerner, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Margaret Theiss Faison, our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, 9 Robert E. Kendrick, III, our Chief Credit Officer, Ronald M. Voigt, our Chief Business Development Officer and Patsy J. Houck, our Chief Operations Officer. They provide valuable services to us and would be difficult to replace. We have not entered into employment agreements with these executives and they are therefore free to unilaterally terminate their employment with us at any time. In addition, our growth and success and our anticipated future growth and success, in large part, is due and we anticipate will be due to the relationships maintained by our banking executives with our customers. The loss of services of one or more of these executives or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our business could suffer. The experienced commercial lenders that we have hired are not a party to any employment agreement with us and they could terminate their employment with us at any time and for any reason. We may lose members of our management team due to compensation restrictions. Our ability to retain key officers and employees may be negatively impacted by recent legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry. On February 17, 2009, the ARRA was signed into law. While the Treasury must promulgate regulations to implement the restrictions and standards set forth in the new law, the ARRA, among other things, significantly expands the executive compensation restrictions previously imposed by the EESA. Such restrictions apply to any entity that has received or will receive financial assistance under the TARP, and will generally continue to apply for as long as any obligation arising from financial assistance provided under TARP, including preferred stock issued under the CPP, remains outstanding. As a result of our participation in the TARP CPP, the restrictions and standards set forth in the ARRA are applicable to the Company. Such restrictions and standards may impact management’s ability to retain key officers and employees as well as our ability to compete with financial institutions that are not subject to the same limitations as the Company under the ARRA. The costs of being a public company are proportionately higher for small companies like us due to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. These regulations are applicable to our company. We expect to experience increasing compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These necessary costs are proportionately higher for a company of our size and will affect our profitability more than that of some of our larger competitors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 