ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We maintain a close business relationship with Shanghai Huaye and any disruption of this relationship or the financial stability of Shanghai Huaye could damage our business. Our company and Shanghai Huaye, which is 100% owned by our majority shareholder, Chairperson and CEO, Lifang Chen and her husband Feng Gao, have a close business relationship. Approximately 38.4% of our revenue was derived from Shanghai Huaye and its affiliates in fiscal year 2011, which distribute our products. In addition, a large portion of our raw materials were supplied by Shanghai Huaye in fiscal year 2011. We believe that the larger size of Shanghai Huaye gives it greater bargaining power than us and our arrangement with Shanghai Huaye allows us to leverage its bargaining power and purchase raw materials at relatively lower purchase prices from suppliers. We do not have long-term written contracts with Shanghai Huaye. In the past, Shanghai Huaye also has provided credit support on our behalf and guaranties for our benefit in connection with loans to us from third party lenders. If our business relationship with Shanghai Huaye changes negatively or Shanghai Huaye’s financial condition deteriorates, this would harm our business in many ways. We would be forced to rely on other third parties for raw materials and product distribution if Shanghai Huaye ceases to be a supplier of our raw materials and/or a distributor of our products at current levels. We may not be able to negotiate terms with these third parties that are as favorable as our arrangements with Shanghai Huaye. If this happens, our revenues could decrease, our production costs could increase and our profit margin could be strained. In addition, a material adverse change in the financial condition and creditworthiness of Shanghai Huaye could impair our existing credit facilities and ability to obtain loans in the future. Any decrease in the availability, or increase in the cost, of raw materials could materially affect our earnings. Our operations depend heavily on the availability of various raw materials and energy resources, including steel coil, zinc, oil paint, electricity and natural gas. Steel coil has historically made up approximately 90.0% of our total cost of sales. The availability of raw materials and energy resources may decrease and their prices may fluctuate greatly. We purchase a large portion of our raw materials from our affiliate Shanghai Huaye and we have long-term relationships with several other suppliers. However, if Shanghai Huaye or any other important suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with raw materials on terms favorable to us, we may be unable to produce certain products. This could result in a decrease in profit and damage to our reputation in our industry. In the event our raw material and energy costs increase, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers in full or at all. Any increase in the prices for raw materials or energy resources could materially increase our costs and therefore lower our earnings. Our industry is highly fragmented and competitive, and increased competition could reduce our operating income. The steel manufacturing and processing business is highly fragmented and competitive. We compete with a number of other steel manufacturers and processors in China, on a region-by-region basis, and with foreign steel manufacturers on a worldwide basis. Our goal is to market our products to customers who demand the highest quality products and precision in the end product so we compete primarily on the precision and range of achievable tolerances, the quality of our products and the raw materials used in our products. We compete with companies of various sizes, some of which have more established brand names and relationships in certain markets we serve than we do. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or offer services at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our margins and operating income. A downturn or negative changes in the highly volatile steel industry will harm our business and profitability. The steel industry as a whole is cyclical and pricing can be volatile as a result of general economic conditions, energy costs, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs and currency exchange rates. These macroeconomic factors have historically resulted in wide fluctuations in the steel industry both in China and globally. In our case, future economic downturns, stagnant economies or currency fluctuations in China or globally could decrease the demand for products or increase the amount of imports of steel into China, which could negatively impact our sales, margins and profitability. 11 We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have the operating effectiveness of our internal controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports and, for companies that are not small reporting companies, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements to attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of such company’s internal controls. Our management had previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in fiscal years 2008 and 2009. Although our management believes that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of June 30, 2011, we can provide no assurance that we will comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby and we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors in the future, when required. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. If we become directly subject to the recent scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity involving U.S.-listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and resolve the matter which could harm our business operations, stock price and reputation and could result in a loss of your investment in our stock, especially if such matter cannot be addressed and resolved favorably. Recently, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China, particularly companies like us which have completed so-called reverse merger transactions, have been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies, such as the SEC. Much of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity has centered around financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial accounting, inadequate corporate governance policies or a lack of adherence thereto and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed Chinese companies has sharply decreased in value and, in some cases, has become virtually worthless. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits, SEC enforcement actions and are conducting internal and external investigations into the allegations. It is not clear what effect this sector-wide scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity will have on our Company, our business and our stock price. If we become the subject of any unfavorable allegations, whether such allegations are proven to be true or untrue, we will have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend our Company. This situation will be costly and time consuming and distract our management from growing our company. If such allegations are not proven to be groundless, our Company and business operations may be severely and adversely affected and your investment in our stock could be rendered worthless. We may be unable to fund the substantial ongoing capital and maintenance expenditures that our operations require. Our operations are capital intensive and our business strategy may require additional substantial capital investment. We require capital for building new production lines, acquiring new equipment, maintaining the condition of our existing equipment and complying with environmental laws and regulations. We plan to fund our capital expenditures from operating cash flow and our credit facilities and may require additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you, however, that financing will be available or, if financing is available, it may result in increased interest and amortization expense, increased leverage, dilution and decreased income available to fund further expansion. In addition, future debt financings may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and render us more vulnerable to economic downturns. If we are unable to fund our capital requirements, we may be unable to implement our business plan, and our financial performance may suffer. 12 Our level of indebtedness may make it more difficult for us to fulfill all of our debt obligations and may reduce the amount of cash available for maintaining and growing our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues. Our major source of liquidity is borrowing through short-term bank and private loans. Our total debt under existing loans as of June 30, 2011 was approximately $119.1 million, of which approximately $95.5 million are short-term loans to non-related third parties. We expect to renew our short-term loans when they become due, our inability to renew these loans upon maturity may cause us working capital constraints. This substantial indebtedness could also impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill all of our debt obligations, especially during a downturn in our business, in the industry in which we operate or in the general economy. Our indebtedness and the incurrence of any new indebtedness could (i) make it more difficult for us to satisfy our existing obligations, which could in turn result in an event of default on such obligations, (ii) require us to seek other sources of capital to finance cash used in operating activities, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes, (iii) impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; (iv) diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business, the industry in which we operate or the economy generally, (v) limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, or (vi) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have proportionately less debt. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all, which could cause us to default on our debt service obligations and be subject to foreclosure on such loans. Additionally, we could incur additional indebtedness in the future and, if new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks above could intensify. Unexpected equipment failures may damage our business due to production curtailments or shutdowns. Our manufacturing processes are extremely specialized and depend on critical pieces of equipment, such as air knife machines, welding tools and apparatus, color-coating machines, roll mills, ABB roll and tension knives. This machinery is highly specialized and cannot be repaired or replaced without significant expense and time delay. On occasion, our equipment may be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures which may result in material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production. Interruptions in production capabilities will inevitably increase production costs and reduce our sales and earnings. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or adverse weather conditions. Furthermore, any interruption in production capability may require us to make large capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. Although we have business interruption insurance, we cannot provide any assurance that the insurance will cover all losses that we experience as a result of the equipment failures. In addition, longer-term business disruption could result in a loss of customers. If this were to occur, our future sales levels, and therefore our profitability, could be adversely affected. Our revenue will decrease if there is less demand for construction materials or electrical household appliances. Our products often serve as important components in construction materials and electrical household appliances. Therefore, we are subject to the general changes in economic conditions affecting the construction and household appliance segments of the economy. Demand for our products is typically affected by a number of economic factors, including, but not limited to, consumer interest rates, consumer confidence, retail trends, sales of existing homes, and the level of mortgage financing. If there is a decline in economic activity in China and the other markets in which we operate or a decrease of sales of construction materials and electrical household appliances, demand for our products and our revenue will likewise decrease. Environmental regulations impose substantial costs and limitations on our operations. We are subject to various national and local environmental laws and regulations in China concerning issues such as air emissions, wastewater discharges, and solid waste management and disposal. These laws and regulations can restrict or limit our operations and expose us to liability and penalties for non-compliance. While we believe that our facilities are in material compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, the risks of substantial unanticipated costs and liabilities related to compliance with these laws and regulations are an inherent part of our business. It is possible that future conditions may develop, arise or be discovered that create new environmental compliance or remediation liabilities and costs. While we believe that we can comply with existing environmental legislation and regulatory requirements and that the costs of compliance have been included within budgeted cost estimates, compliance may prove to be more limiting and costly than anticipated. 13 If our customers and/or the ultimate consumers of products that use our products successfully assert product liability claims against us due to defects in our products, our operating results may suffer and our reputation may be harmed. Our products are widely applied in the manufacturing of many products, including electrical household appliances, medical instruments and large industrial equipment. Significant property damage, personal injuries and even death can result from malfunctioning products. If our products are not properly manufactured or installed and/or if people are injured as a result of our products, we could be subject to claims for damages based on theories of product liability and other legal theories in some jurisdictions in which our products are sold. The costs and resources to defend such claims could be substantial and, if such claims are successful, we could be responsible for paying some or all of the damages. We do not have product liability insurance. The publicity surrounding these sorts of claims is also likely to damage our reputation, regardless of whether such claims are successful. Any of these consequences resulting from defects in our products would hurt our operating results and stockholder value. We might fail to adequately protect our intellectual property and third parties may claim that our products infringe upon their intellectual property. As part of our business strategy, we intend to accelerate our investment in new technologies in an effort to strengthen and differentiate our product portfolio and make our manufacturing processes more efficient. As a result, we believe that the protection of our intellectual property will become increasingly important to our business. Currently, we have 36 patents and 32 patent applications pending. We expect to rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights to provide protection in this regard, but this protection might be inadequate. For example, our pending or future patent applications might not be approved or, if allowed, they might not be of sufficient strength or scope. Conversely, third parties might assert that our technologies infringe their proprietary rights. In either case, litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and whether or not we are ultimately successful, the litigation could hurt our business and financial condition. Expansion of our business may strain our management and operational infrastructure and impede our ability to meet any increased demand for our fine finished steel products. Our growth strategy includes growing our operations by meeting the anticipated growth in demand for existing products, introducing new product offerings, and identifying and acquiring or investing in suitable candidates on acceptable terms. In 2009, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in Ningbo Zhehua. In addition, our subsidiary, Jiangsu Cold-Rolled, has recently completed construction of several new production lines and has been put into operation, but lacks a proven operational history. Over time, we may acquire or make investments in other providers of products that complement our business and other companies in our industry. Growth in our business may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. Our business growth also presents numerous risks and challenges, including: · our ability to successfully and rapidly expand sales to potential customers in response to potentially increasing demand; · our ability to integrate and retain key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel; · our ability to incorporate the acquired products or capabilities into our offerings from an engineering, sales and marketing perspective; · integration and support pre-existing supplier, distribution and customer relationships; · adverse effects on our reported operating results due to possible write-down of goodwill associated with acquisitions; · potential disputes with sellers of acquired businesses, technologies, services, products and potential liabilities; · the costs associated with such growth, which are difficult to quantify, but could be significant; and · rapid technological change. To accommodate this growth and compete effectively, we may need to obtain additional funding to improve information systems, procedures and controls and expand, train, motivate and manage existing and additional employees. Funding may not be available in a sufficient amount or on favorable terms, if at all. If we are not able to manage these activities and implement these strategies successfully to expand to meet any increased demand, our operating results could suffer. 14 We depend heavily on key personnel, and turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, including Lifang Chen, our Chief Executive Officer, and Yongfei Jiang, our Chief Financial Officer. They also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, marketing and sales and support personnel for our operations. If we lose a key employee, if a key employee fails to perform in his or her current position, or if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees as needed, our business could suffer. Significant turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete our institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team. We depend on the skills and abilities of these key employees in managing the manufacturing, technical, marketing and sales aspects of our business, any part of which could be harmed by turnover in the future. Changes in our effective tax rate or tax liability may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Because we are a U.S. company with operating subsidiaries in China and we engage in international sales, we are subject to federal and state tax in the U.S., state and local tax in China and other foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are some transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Additionally our calculations of income taxes are based on our interpretations of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. Although we believe our tax estimates are appropriate, there is no assurance that the final determination of our income tax liability will not be materially different than what is reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. We are also subject to the periodic examination of our income tax returns by tax authorities. The outcomes from these examinations may have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, our provision for income tax could increase as we expand our international operations, adopt new products, implement changes to our operating structure or undertake intercompany transactions in light of acquisitions, changing tax laws, and our current and anticipated business and operational requirements. Should additional taxes be assessed as a result of new legislation, an audit or litigation; or if our effective tax rate should change as a result of changes in federal, international or state and local tax laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our income tax provision and results of operations. Ms. Lifang Chen’s association with Shanghai Huaye could pose a conflict of interest. Ms. Lifang Chen, our chairman and beneficial owner of 74.5% of our common stock, also beneficially owns 100% of Shanghai Huaye, which is a major distributor of our products and provider of our raw materials. As a result, conflicts of interest may arise from time to time. We will attempt to resolve any such conflicts of interest in our favor. Our officers and directors are accountable to us and our shareholders as fiduciaries, which requires that such officers and directors exercise good faith and integrity in handling our affairs. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in China, which may experience corruption. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our company, because these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. Also, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. 15 RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate most of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · a higher level of government involvement; · a early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · a rapid growth rate; · a higher level of control over foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. As the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our services and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in the PRC. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, most of our executive officers and directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to affect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese operations and subsidiaries. If we are found to have failed to comply with applicable laws, we may incur additional expenditures or be subject to significant fines and penalties. Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to us. However, many PRC laws and regulations are uncertain in their scope, and the implementation of such laws and regulations in different localities could have significant differences. In certain instances, local implementation rules and/or the actual implementation are not necessarily consistent with the regulations at the national level. Although we strive to comply with all the applicable PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government authorities will not later determine that we have not been in compliance with certain laws or regulations. In addition, our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these and other applicable laws and regulations in China could subject us to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, as well as civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of our products. It is possible that changes to such laws or more rigorous enforcement of such laws or with respect to our current or past practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, additional environmental, health or safety issues relating to matters that are not currently known to management may result in unanticipated liabilities and expenditures. 16 The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in RMB and U.S. dollars, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our revenues may be denominated. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars, as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Sometimes we may need to import some of our raw materials and major equipment. In the event that the U.S. dollars appreciate against RMB, our costs will increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increases on to our customers, our profitability and operating results may suffer. In addition, since our sales to international customers are growing rapidly, we are increasingly subject to the risk of foreign currency depreciation. 17 Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Substantially all of our revenues are earned by our PRC subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to its offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our PRC subsidiaries are also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of their annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC generally accepted accounting principles to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in said fund reaches 50% of our registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances, or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiary to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us. We are a Nevada holding company and most of our assets are located outside of the United States. Almost all of our operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Although the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are generally provided for under the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in China may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. China does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security or the public interest. So it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. Our ability to conduct foreign-exchange activities in the PRC is subject to uncertainties surrounding the interpretation of SAFE regulations, one of which is Circular 75. Under the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China (as amended and supplemented, “Circular 75”), PRC residents must register with a local branch of SAFE (1) before they establish or gain control of an overseas special purpose vehicle, or SPV, for the purpose of overseas equity financing (including convertible debt financing); (2) when they contribute their assets or equity interests in a domestic enterprise to an SPV or engage in overseas financing after contributing assets or equity interests to an SPV; and (3) when their SPV undergoes a material change outside of China, such as a change in share capital or merger or acquisition. If any PRC resident who holds stock in an SPV fails to make the required SAFE registration and make any amended registration, the onshore PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore SPV. Failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment registration requirements described above could result in liability for evading PRC laws applicable to foreign exchange restrictions. 18 We have advised our shareholders who are PRC residents, as defined in Circular 75, to register with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. However, we cannot provide any assurances that their existing registrations have fully complied with, and they have made all necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by Circular 75. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect shareholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident shareholders to comply with Circular 75, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Under the New Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC stockholders. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China passed the EIT Law and on November 28, 2007, the State Council of China passed its implementing rules, both of which took effect on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Offshore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, further interpreting the application of the EIT Law and its implementation against non-Chinese enterprise or group controlled offshore entities. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an offshore jurisdiction and controlled by a Chinese enterprise or group will be classified as a “domestically incorporated resident enterprise” if (i) its senior management in charge of daily operations reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (ii) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (iii) its substantial assets and properties, accounting books, corporate chops, board and shareholder minutes are kept in China; and (iv) at least half of its directors with voting rights or senior management often resident in China. A resident enterprise would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income and its non-PRC stockholders would be subject to a withholding tax at a rate of 10% when dividends are paid to such non-PRC stockholders. However, it remains unclear as to whether the Notice is applicable to an offshore enterprise incorporated by a Chinese natural person. Nor are detailed measures on enforcement of PRC tax against non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. We may be deemed to be a resident enterprise by Chinese tax authorities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on financing proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiary would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC stockholders from transferring our shares. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the 2010 tax year and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. 19 If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. We face uncertainty from China’s Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-Resident Enterprises' Share Transfer, or Circular 698, that was released in December 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008. The Chinese State Administration of Taxation released a circular on December 15, 2009 that addresses the transfer of shares by nonresident companies, generally referred to as Circular 698. Circular 698, which is effective retroactively to January 1, 2008, may have a significant impact on many companies that use offshore holding companies to invest in China. Circular 698, which provides parties with a short period of time to comply with its requirements, indirectly taxes foreign companies on gains derived from the indirect sale of a Chinese company. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of his, her, or its residents is not taxable, the foreign investor is required to provide the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise with the relevant information within 30 days of the transfers. Moreover, where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise through an abuse of form of organization and there are no reasonable commercial purposes such that the corporate income tax liability is avoided, the PRC tax authority will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer in accordance with PRC’s “substance-over-form” principle and deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes. There is uncertainty as to the application of Circular 698. For example, while the term "indirectly transfer" is not defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. It is also unclear, in the event that an offshore holding company is treated as a domestically incorporated resident enterprise, whether Circular 698 would still be applicable to transfer of shares in such offshore holding company. Moreover, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax in the country or jurisdiction and to what extent and the process of the disclosure to the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise. In addition, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to decide “abuse of form of organization” and “reasonable commercial purpose,” which can be utilized by us to balance if our Company complies with the Circular 698. If Circular 698 is determined to be applicable to us based on the facts and circumstances around such share transfers, we may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The disclosures in our reports and other filings with the SEC and our other public pronouncements are not subject to the scrutiny of any regulatory bodies in the PRC. Accordingly, our public disclosure should be reviewed in light of the fact that no governmental agency that is located in China where all of our operations and business are located have conducted any due diligence on our operations or reviewed or cleared any of our disclosure. We are regulated by the SEC and our reports and other filings with the SEC are subject to SEC review in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Unlike public reporting companies whose operations are located primarily in the United States, however, all of our operations are located in China. Since all of our operations and business takes place in China, it may be more difficult for the Staff of the SEC to overcome the geographic and cultural obstacles that are present when reviewing our disclosure. These same obstacles are not present for similar companies whose operations or business take place entirely or primarily in the United States. Furthermore, our SEC reports and other disclosure and public pronouncements are not subject to the review or scrutiny of any PRC regulatory authority. For example, the disclosure in our SEC reports and other filings are not subject to the review of the CSRC, a PRC regulator that is tasked with oversight of the capital markets in China. Accordingly, you should review our SEC reports, filings and our other public pronouncements with the understanding that no local regulator has done any due diligence on our company and with the understanding that none of our SEC reports, other filings or any of our other public pronouncements has been reviewed or otherwise been scrutinized by any local regulator. 20 RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK Certain of our stockholders hold a significant percentage of our outstanding voting securities. Ms. Lifang Chen, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is the beneficial owner of approximately 74.5% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, she possesses significant influence and can elect a majority of our board of directors and authorize or prevent proposed significant corporate transactions. Her ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market and this low trading volume may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our common stock started trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “SUTR” in February 2008. The trading volume of our common stock has been comparatively low to other companies listed on Nasdaq. Limited trading volume will subject our shares of common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to you. Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation may make it more difficult for a third party to effect a change- in-control. Our articles of incorporation authorize the board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the board of directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights and redemption rights provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control, which in turn could prevent the stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock is volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when you want to sell your holdings. The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. These factors include: · our earnings releases, actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors; · changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; · speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; · significant developments relating to our relationships with our customers or suppliers; · stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the steel industries; · customer demand for our products; · investor perceptions of the steel industries in general and our company in particular; · the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; · general economic conditions and trends; · major catastrophic events; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles; · loss of external funding sources; · sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant stockholders; and 21 · additions or departures of key personnel. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. For example, in July 2008, the securities markets in the United States, China and other jurisdictions experienced the largest decline in share prices since September 2001. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 