ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of net losses and we emerged from Chapter 11 reorganization in 2004. We have had a history of net losses and expect to continue to report net losses for the foreseeable future. We sought protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in May 2004 and emerged on December 21, 2004. We reported net losses of $152.0 million, $11.9 million and $136.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our net losses are principally attributable to insufficient revenue to cover our operating expenses, which we expect will remain significant. We are subject to regulation by federal, state and local governments, which may impose costs and restrictions. Federal, state and local governments extensively regulate the cable industry and the telephone services industry and are beginning to regulate certain aspects of the Internet services industry. There are numerous proceedings pending before the FCC, state PUCs and the courts that may affect the way that we do business. For example, Congress and the FCC, and some states are considering various regulations and legislation pertaining to “network neutrality,” digital carriage obligations, digital set top box requirements, program access rights, digital telephone services, and changes to the pricing at which we interconnect exchange traffic with other telephone companies. These proposed laws and regulations, any of which may affect our business operations and costs. With respect to VoIP services, the FCC is considering whether it should impose additional VoIP E911 obligations on interconnected VoIP providers, including a proposed requirement that interconnected VoIP providers automatically determine the physical location of their customer rather than allowing customers to manually register their location. Also, the FCC continues to evaluate alternative methods for assessing USF charges. We cannot predict what actions the FCC or state regulators may take in the future, nor can we determine the potential financial impact of those possible actions. We also expect that new legislative enactments, court actions and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and in some cases change the rights and obligations of cable operators, telephone companies and other entities under federal, state, and local laws, possibly in ways that we have not foreseen. Congress and state legislatures consider new legislative requirements potentially affecting our businesses virtually every year and new proceedings before the FCC and state PUCs and the courts are initiated on a regular basis that may also have an impact on the way that we do business. 18 Table of Contents Actions by local authorities may also affect our business. Local franchise authorities grant franchises or other agreements that permit us to operate our cable and OVS systems and we have to renew or renegotiate these agreements from time to time. Local franchising authorities often demand concessions or other commitments as a condition to renewal or transfer, and such concessions or other commitments could be costly to us in the future. In addition, we could be materially disadvantaged if we remain subject to legal constraints that do not apply equally to our competitors, such as where local telephone companies that enter our markets to provide video programming services are not subject to the local franchising requirements and other requirements that apply to us. For example, the FCC has adopted rules and several states have enacted legislation to ease the franchising process and enable state-wide franchising for new entrants. While reduced franchising limitations would also benefit us if we were to expand our systems, the chief beneficiaries of these rules are the larger, well funded traditional telephone carriers, such as Verizon. The results of these ongoing and future legislative, judicial and administrative actions may materially affect our cost of business operations and profitability. See “Regulation” in Item 1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We depend on third party suppliers and licensors, and in some cases, a single vendor in order to obtain economics of scale for the cost of procuring equipment; thus, if we are unable to procure the necessary equipment, software or licenses on reasonable terms and on a timely basis, our ability to offer services could be impaired, and our growth, operations, and financial results could be materially adversely affected. We depend on third party suppliers and licensors to supply some of the hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of our services. We obtain these materials from a limited number of vendors, and in certain cases, rely on a single vendor in order to maximize our volume-based purchasing discounts. If demand exceeds these vendors’ capacity or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, or are otherwise unable to provide the equipment we need in a timely manner and at reasonable prices, our ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected. The need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials or services might delay our ability to serve our customers. These events could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain and attract customers, and have a material negative impact on our operations, business, results of operations and financial condition. In the event of a substantial failure of our information systems or loss of key facilities or personnel, our disaster recovery plans may not enable us to fully recover our services for an extended period, which would adversely affect our revenues or capital resources. Our disaster recovery framework to control and address systems and key facilities risks may not currently permit for timely recovery of our primary service delivery capability and information systems functions in any of our key geographic markets in the event of a catastrophic event or loss of major systems capabilities. We may incur substantial costs, delays and customer complaints before restoring our primary business if such catastrophic failure was to occur. In the event of a disaster impairing our primary service delivery and operational capabilities, we would expect to experience a substantial negative affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Programming costs have risen in past years and are expected to continue to rise, and we may not be able to pass such programming costs through to our customers, which could adversely affect our cash flow and operating margins. The cost of acquiring programming is the largest operating cost of our television business. These costs have increased each year and we expect them to continue to increase, especially the costs associated with sports programming. Many of our programming contracts cover multiple years and provide for future increases in the fees we must pay. Historically, we have absorbed increased programming costs in large part through increased prices to our customers. We cannot assure you that competitive and other marketplace factors will permit us to continue to pass through these costs. Despite our efforts to manage programming expenses, we cannot assure you that the rising cost of programming will not adversely affect our cash flow and operating margins. In addition, programming costs are generally related directly to the number of subscribers to which the programming is provided, resulting in larger cable and DBS systems generally paying lower per subscriber programming costs. This cost difference can cause us to suffer reduced operating margins as prices decrease, while our competitors will not suffer similar margin compression due to their generally lower costs. In addition, as programming agreements come up for renewal, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these agreements on comparable or favorable terms. To the extent that we are unable to reach acceptable agreements with programmers, we may be forced to remove programming from our line-up, which could result in a loss of customers. Our markets are highly competitive. In each of our markets we face significant competition from larger incumbent cable companies, DBS companies, high-speed data service providers and other telecommunication providers. These competitors have numerous advantages, including: • significant economies of scale; • greater brand recognition; • greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources; 19 Table of Contents • well-established customer and vendor relationships; • significant control over limited conduit and pole space (in the case of incumbent cable and telephone companies); and • ownership of content and/or significant cost advantages in the acquisition of content. Due to the small relative size of our customer-base and market share in each of our markets, we would not be able to independently set and maintain the price of our services if any of our competitors were to offer similar or competing services at a lower cost. As a result, if our competitors were to market their services at substantially lower prices, this could lead to pressure on the pricing of our services, and could adversely affect our ability to add or retain customers and our ability to expand the services purchased by our customers. In addition, we face intense competition from incumbent telephone companies, including Verizon, which has begun to offer video services. Their competitive position has been improved by recent operational, regulatory and legislative advances. The attractive demographics of our major urban markets make many of our service areas desirable locations for investment in video distribution technologies by both incumbents and new entrants, such as Verizon. By the nature of our relatively mature markets, the introduction of a viable new entrant will increase competitive intensity, leading to downward pricing pressure on and customer losses for the prior market competitors. For example, during 2007, while we grew video connections, customers and revenue on a consolidated basis, we lost video connections, customers and revenue in the areas where Verizon offered video service. While these declines did not have a material impact on our results of operations, we cannot predict the extent to which increased competition, particularly from large incumbents, will impact our results of operations in the future. Aggressive price reductions and/or significant customer losses would likely adversely impact our results of operations, which could in turn have an adverse impact on our overall financial position. We may be unable to successfully anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting our industry, including regulatory changes that may affect our competitors differently from us, new technologies and services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends and discount pricing strategies by competitors. Our revenue is highly susceptible to changes in general economic conditions, and any significant downturn in the U.S. economy as a whole, or in any geographic market in which we provide services, could substantially impact our sales, customer churn, bad-debt and collections, and overall results of operations. While our customers generally place a high value and priority on the services we provide, customers could reevaluate their expenditures on these services in times of uncertainty and hardship, which could cause them to cancel all or portions of our services, respond more quickly to price-based promotions from our competitors, and delay the payment of their monthly bills. As a result, in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions, our results of operations could be negatively impacted, and the impact could be more severe for us than for our larger competitors or for those businesses that deliver products or services that customers deem to be higher in priority. If general economic conditions worsen, we may not be able to continue to deliver customer and revenue growth, or manage bad debt and collections effectively, any of which could cause a material adverse impact on our operations, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to respond to technological developments and meet customer demand for new products and services could limit our ability to compete effectively. Our business is characterized by rapid technological change and the introduction of new products and services, some of which are bandwidth-intensive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fund the capital expenditures necessary to keep pace with technological developments or that we will successfully anticipate the demand of our customers for products and services requiring new technology or bandwidth. Any inability to maintain and expand our upgraded systems and provide advanced services in a timely manner, or to anticipate the demands of the marketplace, could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. Consequently, our growth, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. We experience turnover among our experienced and trained employee base, which could result in our inability to continue performing certain functions and completing certain initiatives in accordance with our existing budgets and operating plans. We depend on the performance of our executive officers and key sales, engineering, and operations personnel, many of whom have significant experience in the cable and telecommunications industries and substantial tenures with either our company or that of one of the companies that we have acquired. We experience turnover among our employees as a whole, and if we are not able to retain our executive officers or other key employees, we could experience a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There are risks of network failure and disruption. Our network architecture generally limits any failure or disruption to the market in which the failure occurs. Many of our agreements with commercial customers, Franchise Agreements to provide cable television and certificates to provide phone service contain performance provisions that include rebates or credits for service interruptions. Prolonged or repeated service interruptions, including those resulting from abusive or malicious Internet activities such as spamming and dissemination of viruses, could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, and therefore adversely affect our operating results. 20 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully integrate the network and operations of NEON Communications Group, Inc. into our business, which would negatively impact our anticipated revenue and cost synergies. On November 13, 2007, we completed our acquisition of NEON Communications Group, Inc. The integration of NEON requires modifications to both companies’ pre-existing network architecture, financial and back-office processes, and reorganization of employee responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will successfully integrate the network and operations of NEON into RCN, maintain key commercial and network relationships with third parties, or retain key sales and technical personnel of NEON. If we are not successful in the integration of NEON, we may be unable to achieve the anticipated revenue and cost synergies that we anticipated at the time we agreed to acquire NEON. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our stock and our ability to raise capital. A significant portion of our outstanding common stock is held by institutions, which own large blocks of our shares. Due to the relatively low trading volume in our stock, a decision by any of these investors to sell all or a portion of their holdings could cause our stock price to drop significantly, or cause significant volatility in our stock price. In addition, we have a significant number of shares that we are obligated to issue or that will be come available for resale in the future. For instance, we have issued warrants that are currently exercisable for 8,018,276 shares of our common stock at a per share price of $16.72. We rely on a number of outsourced service providers for key operational functions; if we are unable to maintain quality performance from our outsourced service providers, our ability to offer services could be impaired, and our brand, growth, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have shifted certain services to outsourcing providers, including, but not limited to, portions of our customer care, sales, installation, and repair functions, and we may shift additional services to such providers in the future. If these providers experience operating or financial difficulties, or are otherwise unable to perform in accordance with the terms of their agreements with us, these events could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain and attract customers, and have a material negative impact on our operations, business and financial results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We and our subsidiaries have had, and may in the future incur, a significant amount of indebtedness, including secured debt, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to react to changes in our business. We currently have a significant amount of debt, and may (subject to applicable restrictions in our debt instruments) incur additional debt in the future. As of December 31, 2007, our total debt was approximately $744.9 million and our annualized interest expense based on our aggregate debt outstanding and interest rates in effect on such date is anticipated to be approximately $57.8 million in 2008. Our credit agreement includes a variety of negative covenants that require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operating activities to make payments on our debt, thereby reducing our funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate expenses. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to reduce our level of indebtedness or generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our capital expenditure requirements. If we cannot do so, we would need to seek additional financing, reduce our capital expenditures or take other steps, such as disposing of assets. We cannot assure you that financing would be available on acceptable terms or that asset sales could be accomplished on acceptable terms. In connection with operating our business and building our network, we have incurred operating and net losses and we expect to continue to experience losses for the foreseeable future. We have experienced negative cash flow in the past and may not be able to achieve or sustain operating profitability in the future The covenants in our credit agreement restrict our financial and operational flexibility. Our credit agreement imposes operating and financial restrictions that affect our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • create liens on our assets; • make particular types of investments or other restricted payments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • acquire assets or make certain capital expenditures; • utilize proceeds from asset sales for purposes other than debt reduction except for limited exceptions for reinvestment in the business; • merge or consolidate or sell substantially all of our assets; and • pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents These requirements may affect our ability to finance future operations or to engage in other beneficial business activities. These restrictions may also limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in market conditions and cause us to be more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. If we violate any of these lien restrictions, we could be in default under these agreements and be required to repay our debt immediately rather than at scheduled maturity. The security for our credit agreement consists of liens on substantially all of our assets. If we default under these financing agreements, the creditors could seek to accelerate our repayment obligations, and could seek to foreclose on our assets. If this were to happen, it would materially and adversely affect RCN and our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 