ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS INVESTING IN OUR COMMON STOCK INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. YOU SHOULD CONSIDER CAREFULLY THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS, AS WELL AS THE OTHER INFORMATION IN THIS FORM 10-K, BEFORE DECIDING TO INVEST IN OUR SHARES OF COMMON STOCK. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCURS, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, CASH FLOWS AND LIQUIDITY WOULD SUFFER. IF THIS HAPPENS, THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK WOULD LIKELY DECLINE AND YOU MIGHT LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK. The South African Social Security Agency, or SASSA, is in the process of conducting a national tender for the distribution of welfare grants in which bidders had the opportunity to bid for all of South Africa or on a province-by-province basis. If we were not to receive contracts to continue to distribute these grants in each of the provinces where we currently distribute them, or if we do win these contracts, but the terms are not as favorable to us as our current contracts, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. We currently derive a majority of our revenues from contracts to distribute social welfare grants on behalf of five of the nine provincial governments of South Africa. For the foreseeable future, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows will depend on this concentrated group of customers. During the years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we derived approximately 67%, 70% and 77%, respectively, of our revenues from payments made to us by these provinces under our government social welfare contracts. The South African Social Security Agency, or SASSA, is in the process of conducting a national tender for the distribution of welfare grants in which bidders had the opportunity to bid for all of South Africa or on a province-by-province basis. On May 4, 2007, we filed proposals for each of South Africa’s nine provinces, as well as a proposal for the entire country. SASSA provided an indicative time-frame for the evaluation of the tender proposals and the award of the contract to successful bidders, but all of the key dates have already been missed. As part of the evaluation process for the tender, all bidders were requested to demonstrate their proposed payment solution to SASSA. Our response to the request for proposal was demonstrated to the SASSA evaluation committee on October 25, 2007. In December 2007, we received a notice to bidders from SASSA requesting further details of our financial proposals in a standard format provided in the notice to bidders by no later than December 28, 2007. We provided our response to the notice to bidders to SASSA on December 28, 2007. On January 31, 2008 we received a further notice to bidders from SASSA advising bidders that, due to unforeseen circumstances, the tender evaluation process had not been completed and, as a result, SASSA was requesting tenderers to extend the validity period of their tender responses from February 9, 2008 to March 31, 2008. We agreed to this extension. On March 10, 2008, SASSA extended our five existing contracts to provide welfare administration and distribution services by 12 months to March 31, 2009. SASSA reserves the right to terminate any of the five existing contracts on 30 days written notice, but only after an initial period of six months which ends on September 30, 2008. On March 27, 2008, we received a further notice to bidders from SASSA advising bidders that, due to unforeseen circumstances, the tender evaluation process had still not been completed and, as a result, SASSA was requesting tenderers to extend the validity period of their tender responses by a further three months to June 30, 2008. We responded to SASSA in writing stating that we would extend the validity of our proposal as requested. On April 21, 2008, SASSA announced an update on the progress of the social grants tender process. It stated that the evaluation committee that has been processing the nine provincial tenders has completed its work, and that at this time, there is being constituted an adjudication committee which will deliberate on the tender and make a final recommendation on the award per province to the accountable authority. SASSA stated that the process is on track and that the outcome will be announced as soon as the process is finalized. SASSA did not provide any additional indication of when there would be further announcements or when the process would be completed. It also did not indicate how the process it described would adjudicate proposals, as in the case of one of the proposals we submitted that covered the entire country rather than just certain provinces. 30 On June 30, 2008 we received a further notice to bidders from SASSA advising bidders that the tender evaluation process had still not been completed. Bidders were advised that the Evaluation Committee appointed to evaluate the bid proposals had submitted its recommendations to an Adjudication Committee for consideration, and that the Adjudication Committee is currently in the process of reviewing the recommendations of the Evaluation Committee in order to provide a recommendation to the Chief Executive Officer of SASSA on the preferred bidder(s) for each province. As a result, SASSA requested tenderers to extend the validity period of their tender responses by a further three months to September 30, 2008. We have responded in writing stating that the Company is prepared to extend the validity period of its bid proposal to September 30, 2008 but that the Company will seek legal guidance from the South African High Court to ensure the timely and orderly conclusion of the tender evaluation process. Because of the extensive delays in the tender award process, we cannot predict whether or not contracts will ultimately be awarded on the basis of the current proposals, whether SASSA will seek further extensions of proposals or whether a new process might be initiated by SASSA. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the tender will result in our receiving contracts to continue to distribute social welfare grants in each of the five South African provinces where we currently distribute them past March 31, 2009, which is when the extension we received by SASSA terminates. Even if we do receive new contracts, we cannot predict the terms that such contracts will contain. Any new contract we receive may contain pricing or other terms, such as provisions relating to early termination, that are not as favorable to us as the contracts under which we currently operate. In addition, according to the new tender specification, any new contract will require the successful bidder to pre-fund the social welfare grants in the relevant province for a one month period, which will result in significant cash flow funding requirements for the contractor. The time and attention required by our management in connection with the tender process and the uncertainty surrounding the tender process has consumed a great deal of our management’s time and attention during the past year and until the process is complete, will continue to do so, which may have a disruptive effect on our business. Moreover, because we incur a significant portion of the expenses associated with these contracts during the initial implementation phase, we have historically enjoyed higher profit margins on these contracts after the completion of the implementation period, which averages approximately 18 months. Therefore, to the extent that we are not successful in obtaining new provincial contracts, or if a new contract were to be terminated for any reason during the implementation period, our profit margins would also be adversely affected. 31 Finally, if we were to be awarded one or more contracts by SASSA, an unsuccessful tenderor could seek to challenge the award, which could result in the contract being set aside or could require us to expend time and resources in an attempt to defeat any such challenge. For example, the November 2002 award to us of the Limpopo provincial contract, which was executed in 2003, was challenged by a disqualified bidder for the contract. A South African court set aside the contract in 2005, although the Limpopo province reinstated the contract in terms of its emergency powers. Nevertheless, the court challenge created uncertainty, consumed management time and attention and required us to incur substantial legal expenses. We may undertake acquisitions that could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive to our business. Acquisitions will be a significant part of our long-term growth strategy as we seek to grow our business internationally and to deploy our technologies in new markets outside South Africa. However, we may not be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition or, if the acquisition occurs, integrate the acquired business into our existing business. These transactions may require debt financing or additional equity financing, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership. Acquisitions of businesses or other material operations and the integration of these acquisitions will require significant attention from our senior management which may divert their attention from our day to day business. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. We also may not be able to maintain key employees or customers of an acquired business or realize cost efficiencies or synergies or other benefits that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. In addition, we may need to record write downs from future impairments of intangible assets, which could reduce our future reported earnings. At times, acquisition candidates may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. There are risks relating to operating in South Africa that could adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Our primary operations are located in South Africa and we currently generate substantially all of our revenues from our operations in South Africa. As a result, we are subject to any political, economic, regulatory and other uncertainties in South Africa from time to time. The changing political and social environment. South Africa faces certain social, political and economic challenges, which may adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The country is experiencing high levels of crime and unemployment and there are significant differences in the level of economic and social development among its people, with large parts of the population, particularly in the rural areas, having limited access to education, healthcare, housing and other basic services. Furthermore, South Africa faces challenges in building adequate infrastructure. These problems, together with a shortage of skilled labor, may in the future have an adverse impact on productivity. Furthermore, the general elections scheduled for 2009 may result in a change in government’s social and economic policies that may adversely affect the sustainability, operation and profitability of our South African businesses. Inflation and interest rates. From 2003 until the end of fiscal 2007 the economy of South Africa was characterized by relatively low inflation and interest rates. For instance, as of June 2007, the inflation rate was approximately 6.4% and the SARB’s base lending rate was approximately 10.0% per annum. As of June 2008, the inflation rate, as quoted by Statistics South Africa, was 12.20% and the SARB’s base lending rate had increased to 11.50% per annum. The economy of South Africa in the past has been, and in the future may be characterized by higher rates of inflation and higher interest rates. Higher rates of inflation could increase our South African-based costs and decrease our operating margins. Higher interest rates could adversely affect our ability to obtain cost-effective debt financing in South Africa. 32 Regulatory uncertainty regarding black economic empowerment. The South African government, through the Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, 2003, or the BBBEE Act, established a legislative framework for the promotion of black economic empowerment. The BBBEE Act allows the Minister of Trade and Industry, or the Minister, by notice in the Government Gazette to issue Codes of Good Practice on black economic empowerment, or BEE. In addition, the Minister must publish in the Government Gazette for general information and promote a transformation charter for a particular sector of the economy, if the Minister is satisfied that it is developed by major stakeholders in the relevant sector and advances the objectives of the BBBEE Act. On 9 February 2007 the Minister published the Codes of Good Practice on BEE pursuant to section 9(1) of the BBBEE Act. The information and communication technology sector, or ICT sector, and the financial services sector are among the sectors that have developed transformation charters. On February 9, 2007 the Minister issued the Financial Sector Charter pursuant to section 9 of the BBBEE Act. The ICT charter has not yet been published in the Government Gazette by the Minster and, consequently, it does not currently enjoy any formal status. The ICT sector has attempted to ensure as great a degree of compatibility between its transformation charter and the Codes of Good Practice, thereby assuring the probable publication of that charter in the Government Gazette by the Minister of Trade and Industry. We are likely to be subject to the ICT sector's charter if this document is published in the Government Gazette as a Sector Code or a transformation charter. The ICT charter applies, among others, to companies that manufacture equipment for, or provide services relating to, the electronic capturing, transmission and display of data and information. Compliance with the charter is not enforced through civil or criminal sanction, but only through its effect on the ability to secure contracts in the public and private sectors. One of the components of BEE is that a certain percentage of ownership by black South Africans of our South African business should be achieved over a period of time. The Codes of Good Practice will be reviewed by the Minister in February 2017 which is the end of the tenth year after they commenced. Although BEE is not expropriatory in nature, there may be a dilutive effect to current shareholders in the South African business and there may be a cost associated with increasing the level of black South African shareholders, both of which factors may represent a risk. However, given that non-BEE compliance may place in jeopardy existing and future South African public and private sector contracts, the loss of which could cause a loss of revenue, the attendant risk associated with BEE non-compliance is material. Exchange control regulation. South Africa’s exchange control regulations restrict the export of capital from South Africa, the Republic of Namibia and the Kingdoms of Lesotho and Swaziland, known collectively as the Common Monetary Area. These regulations apply to transactions involving South African residents, including both natural persons and legal entities, and are enforced by SARB. In October 2004, the South African exchange control regulations were liberalized by the abolishment of exchange control limits on new investments outside of South Africa by South African companies. However, according to the circular giving notice of this liberalization, SARB retains an oversight function, the exact nature of which is unclear from the circular. According to the circular, South African companies investing outside of South Africa must now apply to SARB only for monitoring purposes and for the approval of SARB pursuant to existing foreign direct investment criteria, including demonstrated benefit to South Africa. SARB reserves the right to stagger capital outflows relating to very large investments outside of South Africa by South African companies, so as to manage any potential impact on the foreign exchange market. Also, these liberalization measures permit South African companies to retain, outside of South Africa, dividends received in relation to shares held by them in non-South African companies. South African exchange controls are expected to continue for the foreseeable future. The South African government, however, has committed itself to gradually relaxing exchange controls, and significant relaxations have occurred in recent years. Nevertheless, under the current exchange control regulations, our management may be limited in its ability to consider strategic options and our shareholders may not be able to realize the premium over the current trading price of our shares. Although Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. is a US corporation and is not itself subject to these regulations, the ability of New Aplitec to raise and deploy capital outside the Common Monetary Area is restricted. As of June 30, 2008, approximately 83% of our cash and cash equivalents were held by New Aplitec and its subsidiaries. During the year ended June 30, 2008, substantially all of our revenues were generated by New Aplitec and its subsidiaries. In particular, New Aplitec will generally not be permitted to export capital from South Africa or to hold foreign currency without the approval of SARB. This restriction may affect New Aplitec’s ability to pay dividends to Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc., unless New Aplitec can show that any payment of such dividend will not place it in an over borrowed position. Moreover, although the requirement that SARB approve investments by South African companies outside of South Africa has been relaxed, this requirement could restrict our future international expansion, to the extent that New Aplitec cannot show that such expansion will be self-sustainable and beneficial to the South African economy in general. 33 SARB approval is required for New Aplitec to receive loans from and repay loans to non-residents of the Common Monetary Area. In addition, New Aplitec may not use income earned in South Africa to repay or service foreign debts, including the loan accounts between New Aplitec and Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc., without SARB’s approval. Repayment of principal and interest on such loans will usually be approved at the time of the granting of such loans, where the payment is limited to the amount borrowed and a market related rate of interest. New Aplitec will also need SARB approval to raise capital involving a currency other than South African rand, which approval may be provided subject to conditions. Thus, unless we can obtain funding at the Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. level, these restrictions could prevent us from obtaining adequate funding on acceptable terms for acquisitions and other business opportunities outside South Africa. Irregular electricity supply. Since December 2007, South Africa has experienced rolling blackouts due to, among others, an increasing demand for electricity. The number of rolling blackouts significantly reduced during the three months ended July 2008. Although these blackouts have not affected our pension and welfare delivery performance because our UEPS-based technology can operate without the need for consistent networking or power infrastructure, they have adversely affected the productivity of certain portions of our South African workforce, including our head office and information technology personnel, and our manufacturing activities. In addition, even though we believe that we currently have adequate backup power facilities in the form of petrol and diesel generators to support our back-end processing activities, the strain on these generators caused by more frequent usage may shorten their lifespan. Although we have ordered additional generators for our head office, demand for backup generators is high and the lead time for delivery of new generators is currently approximately three months. We believe that the irregular supply of electricity may last for several years unless other short-term solutions are found. There have been a number of press reports discussing the negative impact of the irregular electricity supply on the South African economy. We could be adversely affected by such a downturn, and although we can not predict precisely how such a downturn would affect us, we currently believe that the most significant adverse impact would be a decreasing volume in our transactions-based activities and a significant weakening of the South African Rand, our functional currency, against the US Dollar, our reporting currency. Trade unions and labor laws. Most of South Africa’s major industries are unionized, and the majority of employees belong to trade unions. In the past, trade unions have had a significant impact on the collective bargaining process as well as on social and political reform in South Africa in general. We currently have approximately 142 unionized employees which represents approximately 6.8% of our workforce. Although in recent years we have not experienced any labor disruptions, such labor disruptions may occur in the future. In addition, the cost of complying with labor laws may adversely affect our operations. Regional instability. Historically, there has been regional, political, and economic instability in the countries surrounding South Africa. Such political or economic instability in neighboring countries could affect the social, political and economic conditions in South Africa, for example, as a result of immigration, and this could have a negative impact on our ability to manage our operations in the country. In particular, the recent political unrest in Zimbabwe has resulted in increased immigration into South Africa which has been partly blamed for recent xenophobic violence in areas in which these foreigners reside or operate businesses. HIV/AIDS. HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis, which is exacerbated in the presence of HIV/AIDS, are major healthcare challenges in South Africa and other sub-Saharan countries. Due to the high prevalence of HIV/AIDS in South Africa, we may incur costs relating to the loss of personnel and the related loss of productivity as well as the costs relating to recruiting and training of new personnel. In addition, the potential for increased mortality rates due to HIV/AIDS deaths to reduce or slow the growth of the South African population could aversely impact our growth. We are not able to quantify the impact of HIV/AIDS on our growth or costs and cannot assure you that the costs we will incur in connection with this epidemic will not have a material adverse effect on us and our financial condition. The loss of the services of Dr. Belamant or any of our other executive officers would adversely affect our business. Our future financial and operational performance depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, Dr. Serge Belamant, as well as Mr. Herman Kotze, our Chief Financial Officer, Ms. Brenda Stewart, our Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing, and Mr. Nitin Soma, our Senior Vice President Information Technology. Many of our key responsibilities are performed by these four individuals, and the loss of the services of any of them could disrupt our development efforts or business relationships and our ability to continue to innovate and to meet customers’ needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We do not have employment agreements with our executive officers, any of whom may terminate their employment at any time, nor do we maintain any “key person” life insurance policies. 34 We face a highly competitive employment market and may not be successful in attracting and retaining a sufficient number of skilled employees, particularly in the technical and sales areas and senior management. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to develop new products that use our UEPS technology and to market these products to our target users. In order to succeed in our product development and marketing efforts, we need to identify, attract, motivate and retain sufficient numbers of qualified technical and sales personnel. An inability to hire and retain such technical personnel would adversely affect our ability to enhance our existing intellectual property, to introduce new generations of technology and to keep abreast of current developments in technology. Demand for personnel with the range of capabilities and experience we require is high and there is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining these employees. The risk exists that our technical skills and sales base may be depleted over time because of natural attrition. Furthermore, social and economic factors in South Africa have led, and continue to lead, numerous qualified individuals to leave the country, thus depleting the availability of qualified personnel in South Africa. In addition, our multi-country strategy will also require us to hire and retain highly qualified managerial personnel in each of these markets. If we cannot recruit and retain people with the appropriate capabilities and experience and effectively integrate these people into our business, it could negatively affect our product development and marketing activities. Our strategy of partnering with companies outside South Africa may not be successful. In order for us to expand our operations into foreign markets, it may be necessary for us to establish partnering arrangements with companies outside South Africa, such as the ones we have established in Namibia, Botswana, Nigeria, Colombia and Vietnam. The success of these endeavors is, however, subject to a number of factors over which we have little or no control, such as finding suitable partners with the appropriate financial, business and technical backing and continued governmental support for planned implementations. In some countries, finding suitable partners and obtaining the appropriate support from the government involved may take a number of years before we can commence implementation. Some of these partnering arrangements may take the form of joint ventures in which we receive a minority interest. Minority ownership carries with it numerous risks, including dependence on partners to provide knowledge of local market conditions and to facilitate the acquisition of any necessary licenses and permits, as well as the inability to control the joint venture vehicle and to direct its policies and strategies. Such a lack of control could result in the loss of all or part of our investment in such entities. In addition, our foreign partners may have different business methods and customs which may be unfamiliar to us and with which we disagree. Our joint venture partners may not be able to implement our business model in new areas as efficiently and quickly as we have been able to do in South Africa. Furthermore, limitations imposed on New Aplitec by South African exchange control regulations, as well as limitations imposed on us by the Investment Company Act of 1940, may limit our ability to establish partnerships or entities in which we do not obtain a controlling interest. In addition, certain of our licensees, including Visa, have become our competitors and this could occur with our joint venture partners in the future. We may not maintain our current level of profitability or rates of growth. We believe that our continued profitability and growth will depend in large part on our ability to do the following: - continue to enroll new smart card users and participating merchants in South Africa; - achieve growth in the number and value of transactions processed using our smart cards; - expand our business internationally by properly identifying new markets and business partners for those markets; - identify and execute suitable acquisitions in our target markets; - hire and train personnel capable of marketing, installing and integrating our solution, supporting customers and managing operations; - continue to expand the range of applications that use our technology and to market these applications successfully; and - manage the costs of our business, including the costs associated with maintaining and developing our technology and expanding our operations internationally. If we are not able to achieve any or all of the above, our profitability and/or growth rate will likely decline. 35 Changes in current government regulations relating to social welfare grants could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. We derive a substantial portion of our current business from the distribution of social welfare grants onto smart cards in South Africa and the transaction fees resulting from use of these smart cards. Because social welfare eligibility and grant amounts are regulated by the government, any changes to or reinterpretations of the government regulations relating to social welfare may result in the non-renewal or reduction of grants for certain individuals, or a determination that currently eligible social welfare grant recipients are no longer eligible. If any of these changes were to occur, the number of smart cards in use could decrease, the amount of money on any particular smart card could decrease or the amount of transactions effected on any particular smart card may decrease, all of which could result in a reduction of our revenues and cash flows. We may have difficulty managing our growth which could limit our ability to increase sales and cash flow. We continue to experience significant growth, both in the scope of our operations and size of our organization. This growth is placing significant demands on our management, as well as on our operational resources. In order to achieve our business objectives, however, we anticipate that we will need this growth to continue. Continued growth would increase the challenges involved in: - implementing appropriate operational and financial systems; - expanding our sales and marketing infrastructure and capabilities; - providing adequate training and supervision to maintain high quality standards; and - preserving our culture and values. Additionally, continued growth will place significant additional demands on our management and our financial and operational resources, and will require that we continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls. If we cannot scale and manage our business appropriately, we will not experience our projected growth and our financial results may suffer. 36 There are risks relating to other countries in which we intend to operate that could adversely affect our future business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We intend to expand operations into countries and regions, including African countries outside South Africa, South America, Southeast Asia and Central and Eastern Europe, that are subject to significantly differing political, economic and market conditions. Specific country and regional risks that may have a material impact on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition include: - political and economic instability; - oss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities and insurrection; - competition from existing market participants that may have a longer history in or greater familiarity with the foreign markets we enter; - government interventions and protectionism; - potential adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices, including import and export license requirements, tariffs, legal structures and tax laws; - cancellation of contractual rights; - -trade barriers; - difficulties in staffing and managing operations; - import and export restrictions; - adverse tax consequences; - the lack of well-developed legal systems which could make it difficult for us to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights; - security and safety of employees; - restrictions on the right to convert or repatriate currency or export assets; - greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; - currency fluctuations; - indigenization and empowerment programs; - logistical and communications challenges; - changes in labor conditions; - discrimination against US companies; and - exposure to liability under US securities and foreign trade laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and regulations established by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Many of these countries and regions are in various stages of developing institutions and legal and regulatory systems that are characteristic of democracies. However, institutions in these countries and regions may not yet be as firmly established as they are in democracies in the developed world. Many of these countries and regions are also in the process of transitioning to a market economy and, as a result, are experiencing changes in their economies and their government policies that can affect our investments in these countries and regions. Moreover, the procedural safeguards of the new legal and regulatory regimes in these countries and regions are still being developed and, therefore, existing laws and regulations may be applied inconsistently. In some circumstances, it may not be possible to obtain the legal remedies provided under those laws and regulations in a timely manner. As the political, economic and legal environments remain subject to continuous development, investors in these countries and regions face uncertainty as to the security of their investments. Any unexpected changes in the political or economic conditions in these or neighboring countries or others in the region may have a material adverse effect on the international investments that we have made or may make in the future, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 37 Volatility in the South African Rand to US dollar exchange rate may adversely affect our reported operating results. The South African rand, or ZAR, is the primary operating currency for our business operations while our financial results are reported in US dollars. Because our sales are primarily denominated in ZAR, a decline in the value of the ZAR against the US dollar may have a significant adverse effect on our reported results of operations. During the three years ended June 30, 2008, the ZAR/US dollar exchange rate has been volatile. Refer to “Item 7— Currency Exchange Rate Information—Actual exchange rates—table 3.” The current exchange rate volatility between the US dollar and the South African rand is caused by a number of factors outside our control, including, but not limited to, the recent credit crisis experienced primarily in the United States and certain European countries and the global socio-economic and political climate, including actual or perceived political instability such as is currently being experienced in Zimbabwe. As a result of this volatility our reported results of operations were adversely affected for fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. These fluctuations may make it more difficult for investors and others to understand how our business has performed without regard to these currency exchange rate changes. We expect that exchange rate volatility will continue in the foreseeable future. Trends in revenues and profits may experience significant fluctuations as the rate of exchange between the ZAR and the US dollar fluctuates. We cannot assure you what effect, if any, changes in the exchange rate of the ZAR against the US dollar will have on our results of operations and financial condition. We do not currently engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations, other than economic hedging relating to our inventory purchases which are settled in US dollars or euros. We have used forward contracts in order to hedge our economic exposure to the ZAR/US dollar and ZAR/euro exchange rate fluctuations from these foreign currency transactions. We cannot guarantee that we will enter into hedging transactions in the future or, if we do, that these transactions will successfully protect us against currency fluctuations. We pre-fund the payment of social welfare grants on behalf of our South African government customers and any payment defaults by these customers would adversely affect our operations. We use our internal cash resources and facilities to fund the payment of social welfare grants under our contracts with the KwaZulu-Natal and Eastern Cape provincial governments. We recover these funds from the KwaZulu-Natal provincial government on a seven-day cyclical basis and from the Eastern Cape provincial government on a 14-day cyclical basis. In addition, through our merchant acquiring system, we may also pre-fund social welfare grants in the provinces where we operate. All of these pre-funding obligations expose us to the risk of default by the applicable provincial government. In addition, the number of social welfare grant beneficiaries in these provinces, as well as the number of beneficiaries receiving payment through our merchant acquiring system, increased significantly during fiscal 2008 and 2007, which increased our pre-funding requirements. Although no provincial government has ever defaulted on a repayment of funds at the end of the payment cycle, we cannot guarantee that such a default will not occur in the future. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial position and results of operations. 38 We do not have a South African banking license and therefore we provide our wage payment solution through an arrangement with a third party bank, which limits our control over this business and the economic benefit we derive from it. If this arrangement were to terminate, we would not be able to operate our wage payment business without alternate means of access to a banking license The South African retail banking market is highly regulated, but the South African government has identified the need to service the unbanked market through the liberalization of the regulatory environment in order for retailers and non-banking service providers to innovate products and delivery channels for the unbanked market. However, under current law and regulations, a portion of our South African wage payment business activities in the unbanked market requires us to be registered as a bank in South Africa or to have access to an existing banking license. We are not currently so registered, but we have entered into an agreement with Grindrod Bank in terms of which our wage payment solution will be implemented by Grindrod Bank’s retail division. As a result of this arrangement, we do not have complete control over the marketing and implementation of our wage payment system and we have to share the economic benefits with Grindrod Bank. If the co-operation agreement were to be terminated we would not be able to operate our wage payment business unless we were able to obtain access to a banking license through alternate means. In addition, the South African Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002, requires persons who give advice regarding the purchase of financial products or who act as intermediaries between financial product suppliers and consumers in South Africa to register as financial service providers. We have applied for a license under this Act in order to continue to provide advice and intermediary services in respect of the financial products on which we advise and the payment processing services we provide in South Africa on behalf of insurers and other financial product suppliers. While the license application is pending, we are entitled to continue this part of our business in South Africa. If we fail to obtain this license, we may be stopped from continuing this part of our business in South Africa. We may face competition from the incumbent retail banks in South Africa in the unbanked market segment. The incumbent South African retail banks have created a common banking product, generally referred to as a “Mzansi” account, for unbanked South Africans, which offers limited transactional capabilities at reduced charges, when compared to the accounts traditionally offered by these banks. According to the FinScope 2006 survey 2,800,000 people (approximately 6% of the population) in South Africa claim to have an Mzanzi account, although the exact number of accounts is unknown. The social welfare beneficiaries who are currently paid through our smart card system may elect to use these accounts to receive their grants. A decision by a substantial number of these beneficiaries to elect to use these accounts rather than our smart card system may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We may face increased competition as our sales and product offerings increase. In addition to competition that we face from the use of cash, checks, credit and debit cards, existing payment systems and the providers of financial services, we have identified a number of other products currently being produced that use smart card technology in connection with a funds transfer system and the companies that promote them. These include EMV, a system that is being promoted by Visa, MasterCard International and Europay International; Mondex International Limited, a subsidiary of MasterCard; and Proton World International N.V., a subsidiary of STMicroelectronics Belgium N.V. In South Africa, and specifically in the payment of social welfare grants, our competitors also include AllPay Consolidated Investment Holdings (Pty) Ltd., which is responsible for social welfare payments in the Free State, Gauteng and Western Cape provinces and a small portion of the Eastern Cape province, and Empilweni Payout Services, which is responsible for payments in the Mpumalanga province. We also may face competition from companies to which we have licensed our technology, including Visa. Moreover, as our product offerings increase and gain market acceptance, banks in South Africa and other jurisdictions in which we operate may seek governmental or other regulatory intervention if they view us as infringing on their funds transfer or other businesses. 39 Patent competition may adversely affect our products or processes, and limited patent protection, a lack of proprietary protection and the potential to incur costly litigation could be harmful to our operations. Our products and technology have unique characteristics and structures and, as a result, are subject to patent protection, the extent of which varies from country to country. During the life of a patent, a product is only subject to competition by non-infringing products. However, aggressive patenting by our competitors and potential patent piracy may threaten protected products and processes and may result in an increased patent infringement risk, especially in emerging economies such as those where we currently operate. The expiration of a patent may also result in increased competition in the market for the previously patented products and processes. The patents for our FTS will expire, at the latest, in South Africa, Botswana, Swaziland and Hong Kong in 2009; and in the United States in 2011. In addition, our European Union FTS patent was challenged and revoked. Consequently, we do not have any patent protection in the member countries of the European Union. Additionally, we could have difficulty asserting the Hong Kong patent as it is not registered in our name and it could be difficult to record our ownership of that patent. As a result of the revocation of our European Union FTS patent there is a risk that customers may refuse to pay license fees due to us. Moreover, although we have certain patent rights in the United States, these are not expected to have significant utility in our business given that our management does not expect the US market to become a material part of our business in the near future. Each of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, to date, we have relied not only on patent protections, but also on trade secret, trademark and copyright laws, as well as nondisclosure, licensing and other contractual arrangements to protect the proprietary aspects of our solutions. Other than the patents discussed above, we do not own any other patents that protect important aspects of our current solutions. We will, however, prepare patent applications where possible for technology related to our smart cards and UEPS system when we believe it is appropriate to do so. These applications and contractual arrangements and our reliance on these laws may not be successful. Litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or protect our trade secrets could result in substantial costs and may not be successful. Any loss of, or inability to protect, intellectual property in our technology could diminish our competitive advantage and also seriously harm our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of South Africa, Botswana, Swaziland, the United States and the European Union. Our means of protecting our intellectual property rights in South Africa, Botswana, Swaziland, the United States and the European Union or any other country in which we operate, may not be adequate to fully protect our intellectual property rights. Similarly, if third parties claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, we may be required to incur significant costs and devote substantial resources to the defense of such claims. We may be required to discontinue using and selling any infringing technology and services, to expend resources to develop non-infringing technology or to purchase licenses or pay royalties for other technology. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in defending any such third-party claims, we could suffer costly judgments and injunctions that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The copyrights and certain related intellectual property rights in earlier versions of our UEPS software are jointly owned and potentially subject to non-exclusive rights, which may reduce our future revenues. While we own the exclusive copyrights in the current version of the UEPS software, these copyrights are subject to the preexisting copyrights in the earlier versions of our software that are owned jointly by us and Nedbank. As joint owners of the copyrights in these earlier versions of our software that existed prior to July 2000, there is a risk that Nedbank could license these works to others and otherwise commercially exploit these earlier works. Under our Nedbank agreements, Nedbank also acquired the right to request a license of our South African and US FTS patents and of all technology and know-how relating to the UEPS described in those earlier patents from us for entities partly owned by Nedbank that are located anywhere within South Africa and neighboring countries. Under these licenses, Nedbank would pay us a license fee, with us supplying smart cards or being paid a royalty if the cards are obtained from a third party. If Nedbank licenses our works to others or otherwise commercially exploits our technology and know-how related to UEPS, our future revenues may be reduced. 40 Our current license agreement with Visa imposes long-term restrictions on our ability to license rights in our technology and could inhibit our ability to realize additional revenue from these rights in our technology. In 1997, we entered into a technology license agreement with Visa. Under that agreement, Visa purchased a non-exclusive, perpetual, worldwide license to our technology rights, as defined in the agreement, relating to our UEPS technology and an exclusive, perpetual, worldwide license under our patents, as defined in the agreement, licensed to Visa that is exclusive to the financial services industry, as defined in the agreement. Our Visa agreement grants back to us the non-exclusive right under our Visa-licensed patents to make, use and sell our payment systems and other products in the financial services industry as discussed in the agreement. In our Visa agreement, Visa agrees not to grant a sublicense to any payment system to any entities in the financial services industry who are not members of Visa already if such entity already has a right to use such payment systems from us. The agreement permits Visa to sublicense our licensed technology rights to any of its members, any entity in the financial services industry or any entity outside of the financial services industry that provides products to Visa or its sublicensees. The agreement prohibits us from licensing our technology rights, not just our licensed patents, to any of Visa’s competitors, including MasterCard, Europay, American Express Company, Discover Financial Services, Diners Club International Credit Card Co., Carte Blanche Card or JCB International Credit Card Co. or any of their parents, subsidiaries or affiliates. We may need Visa’s consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, in order to transfer or assign our rights and obligations under the agreement. As this agreement does not contain a termination date and contains restrictions on our ability to license our technology rights in the financial services industry and to competitors of Visa, we may not be able to realize the full value of our technology rights. Our license agreement with Visa substantially impacts our ability to defend and enforce our patents licensed to Visa and could substantially inhibit our ability to protect the rights in our technology. Under our license agreement with Visa, we are restricted from suing Visa, its members and any third-party vendors or customers of Visa or its members for infringement of our technology rights licensed to Visa in connection with their manufacture, use or sale of any product or service offered by Visa. The license also grants Visa sole discretion with regard to enforcement of any of the licensed technology rights against third parties in the financial services industry. Under the agreement, Visa has the right to control the prosecution and maintenance of the patents and related patent applications we have licensed to Visa in all jurisdictions, and we are obligated to cooperate and support any of Visa’s actions in this regard. This arrangement could substantially impact our ability to defend these patents, and could make enforcement actions against our competitors more difficult. We depend upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. We obtain our smart cards, POS devices and the other hardware we use in our business from a limited number of suppliers, and do not manufacture this equipment ourselves. We generally do not have long-term agreements with our manufacturers or component suppliers. If our suppliers become unwilling or unable to provide us with adequate supplies of parts or products when we need them, or if they increase their prices, we may not be able to find alternative sources in a timely manner and could be faced with a critical shortage. This could harm our ability to implement new systems and cause our revenues to decline. Even if we are able to secure alternative sources in a timely manner, our costs could increase. A supply interruption or an increase in demand beyond current suppliers’ capabilities could harm our ability to distribute our equipment and thus, to acquire a new source of customers who use our UEPS technology. Any interruption in the supply of the hardware necessary to operate our technology, or our inability to obtain substitute equipment at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Escalating pricing pressures from our retail customers may adversely affect our business. We have experienced pressure from our retail merchant customers seeking to negotiate the fees we charge them. This pricing pressure could cause us to reduce the level of the fees we charge to these customers, which could adversely impact our revenues and profit margins. 41 System failures, including breaches in the security of our system, could harm our business. We may experience system failures from time to time, and any lengthy interruption in the availability of our back-end system computer, could harm our revenues and profits, and could subject us to the scrutiny of our government customers. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential customers and users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to avoid our technology altogether, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. These interruptions would increase the burden on our engineering staff, which, in turn, could delay our introduction of new applications and services. Finally, because our customers may use our products for critical transactions, any system failures could result in damage to our customers’ businesses. These customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim could be time consuming and costly for us to address. Although our systems have been designed to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and similar events. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Protection against fraud is of key importance to the purchasers and end users of our solutions. We incorporate security features, including encryption software, biometric identification and secure hardware, into our solutions to protect against fraud in electronic transactions and to provide for the privacy and integrity of card holder data. Our solutions may be vulnerable to breaches in security due to defects in the security mechanisms, the operating system and applications or the hardware platform. Security vulnerabilities could jeopardize the security of information transmitted using our solutions. If the security of our solutions is compromised, our reputation and marketplace acceptance of our solutions will be adversely affected, which would cause our business to suffer, and we may become subject to damage claims. We have not yet experienced any security breaches affecting our business. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems with our system could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Our current business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. We may not be able to exploit technological advances quickly and successfully, which could impair our competitive position and operations. Most of our operations depend on the use of advanced technological methods, which must keep pace with rapid technological changes, new product introductions by competitors, evolving industry and government performance and security standards and changes in customer and end-user requirements. The use of the appropriate advanced technological procedures can affect, among other things, the competitiveness of our products, the safety of transactions performed using our products, the continuity of our operations and the capacity and efficiency of our production. We believe that new technologies may emerge and that existing technologies may be further developed in the fields in which we operate. Unexpected rapid changes in employed technologies that affect our operations and product range could render the technologies we use obsolete or less competitive in the future. Difficulties in accessing new technologies may impede us from implementing them and competitive pressures may force us to implement these new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, limited access to sources of new capital to acquire new technologies may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business or on our ability to provide competitive products. Our ability to meet the competition will depend on our timely and cost-effective implementation of new technological advances. It will also depend on our success in commercializing these advances in spite of competition we face by patents registered by our competitors. If we are unable to implement new technologies in a timely or cost-efficient basis or penetrate new markets in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 42 We may incur material losses in connection with our distribution of cash to recipients of social welfare grants. Many social welfare recipients use our services to access cash using their smart cards. We use armored vehicles to deliver large amounts of cash to rural areas across South Africa to enable these welfare recipients to receive this cash. In some cases, we also store the cash that will be delivered by the armored vehicles in depots overnight or over the weekend to facilitate delivery to these rural areas. We cannot insure against the risk of loss or theft of cash from our delivery vehicles as we have not identified any insurance underwriters willing to accept this risk on reasonable terms. Therefore, we will bear the full cost of any loss or theft in connection with the delivery process, and such loss could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. During fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, we incurred losses in connection with our cash delivery system of $3.0 million, $3.0 million and $2.1 million, respectively. We may not recover outstanding amounts owed to our micro-finance businesses. We operate a traditional micro-finance business, with approximately 71 branches throughout South Africa. To May 31, 2007, these branches extended short-term loans for periods ranging from 30 days to four months at loans bearing interest rates of 15% to 30% per month. From June 1, 2007, these branches extended short-term loans for periods ranging from 30 days to four months at loans bearing interest at a maximum of 5% per month. In addition, these branches, from June 1, 2007, charge an initiation fee and a monthly service fee. Despite the fact that we attempt to reduce credit risk by employing credit profiling techniques, the rate of default on loans has been high due to the high credit risk of these borrowers and the difficulty of collecting outstanding repayments. We may therefore not recover some or all of the principal and interest amounts currently owed by our borrowers, which on June 30, 2008, totaled $2.9 million. Our inability to recover some or all of these amounts may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. EasyPay is subject to substantial governmental regulation and may be adversely affected by liability under, or any future inability to comply with, existing or future regulations or requirements EasyPay’s business is subject to extensive regulation. Compliance with the requirements under these various regulatory regimes may cause us to incur significant additional costs and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability. We may be subject to privacy laws in South Africa and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our collection, storage and processing, and any disclosure of, customer and employee personal information must comply with South Africa’s privacy laws, which are at various stages of legislative and judicial development. However, South African common law and the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996, do recognize an individual’s right to privacy, and there are some statutes and other regulations which have been enacted that apply to us and the way we operate our business. For example, one statute sets out a framework for the electronic collection, processing, storage and disclosure of personal information. Although compliance with this statute is voluntary, a South African court could determine that we would be violating an individual’s right to privacy if we do not operate in compliance with this framework. In addition, South African law requires that we must keep confidential the HIV status of the people that participate in any HIV/AIDS program. New privacy laws may be enacted in the future which could adversely affect the way we do business, and we could be required to devote substantial management time and resources to comply with these new laws. In addition, if we violate, or are judged to have violated, the privacy rights of people whose information we collect, store and process, we could become liable for damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. 43 As a US company, we are required to comply with certain laws and regulations that affect our international operations and could adversely impact our future growth. We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits US companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties and/or restrictions in our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions. Our requirement to comply with the FCPA could put us at a competitive disadvantage with companies that are not required to comply with the FCPA or similar legislation enacted in other countries. In addition, the US Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on US foreign policy and national security goals. As a result, we are restricted from entering into transactions with certain targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals except as permitted by OFAC which may reduce our future growth. We may be required to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of our shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, programming development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies. Because of the exposure to market risks associated with economies in emerging markets, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and voting power of shares of common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. We may have difficulty raising necessary capital to fund operations as a result of market price volatility for our shares of common stock. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If our business development plans are successful, additional financing may be required to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies and to expand into new markets. The exploitation of our technologies may, therefore, be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. 44 Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of factors outside of our control, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We expect our revenues and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. As a consequence, our operating results in any single quarter may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Factors that may affect our operating results include: - demand for and acceptance of our new product offerings; - delays in the implementation and delivery of our products and services, which may impact the timing of our recognition of revenue; - variations in product mix and cost during any period; - development of new relationships and maintenance and enhancement of existing relationships with customers and strategic partners; - difficulties with component supplies, manufacturing or distribution; - deferral of customer contracts in anticipation of product or service enhancements; - timing of acquisitions or disposals of major assets or businesses; - timing of commencement, implementation or completion of major projects; - the relative mix of revenues from established markets, including South Africa, and unestablished markets; - fluctuations in currency exchange rates; - the fixed nature of many of our expenses; and - industry and economic conditions, including competitive pressures and inventory obsolescence. In particular, differences in relative growth rates between our businesses in our established markets for certain products and unestablished markets may have a significant effect on our operating results, particularly our reported operating profit margin, in any individual quarter, with unestablished market sales typically carrying lower margins in the initial phases of our operations in a new area or the introduction of a new product to an area in which we already operate. Certain transactions are difficult to predict and may have a significant effect on our operating results. Sales of this nature include hardware sales to customers and to our “SmartSwitch” investments and cause fluctuations in revenue and operating income when they occur. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the sale of our products or services to that customer tends to be long and may be subject to delays which may have an impact on our revenues. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the purchase of our products and services is often long and subject to delays associated with the budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that frequently accompany significant capital expenditures. A lengthy sales cycle may have an impact on the timing of our revenues, which may cause our quarterly operating results to fall below investor expectations. A customer’s decision to purchase our products and services is often discretionary, involves a significant commitment of resources, and is influenced by customer budgetary cycles. To sell our products and services successfully we generally must educate our potential customers regarding the uses and benefits of our products and services, which can require the expenditure of significant time and resources; however, there can be no assurance that this significant expenditure of time and resources will result in actual sales of our products and services. We may become subject to a US tax liability for failing to withhold on certain distributions on instruments issued in connection with the Aplitec transaction. There is no statutory, judicial or administrative authority that directly addresses the tax treatment of non-US holders that elected to receive units in a trust representing beneficial interests in B class preference shares and B class loan accounts issued by New Aplitec pursuant to the reinvestment option in connection with our acquisition of Aplitec. We believe these interests should be treated for United States federal income tax purposes as, and we did treat them as, separate and distinct interests in New Aplitec. As such, we and our affiliates do not presently intend to withhold any amounts for US federal taxes in respect of any distributions paid on such interests. There is a risk, however, that these interests, together with the special convertible preferred stock, may be treated as representing a single direct equity interest in us for US federal income tax purposes. In such case, distributions received with respect to the B class preference shares and B class loan accounts could be subject to US federal withholding tax, and we could be liable for failure to withhold such taxes in our capacity as withholding agent. In addition, our failure to collect and remit US federal withholding tax may also subject us to penalties. 45 Shipments of our electronic payment systems may be delayed by factors outside of our control, which can harm our reputation and our relationships with our customers. The shipment of payment systems requires us or our manufacturers, distributors or other agents to obtain customs or other government certifications and approvals and, on occasion, to submit to physical inspection of our systems in transit. Failure to satisfy these requirements, and the very process of trying to satisfy them, can lead to lengthy delays in the delivery of our solutions to our direct or indirect customers. Delays and unreliable delivery by us may harm our reputation in the industry and our relationships with our customers. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, especially over companies that we may acquire, could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes, particularly Section 404 of Sarbanes, requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Sarbanes. The requirement to evaluate and report on our internal controls also applies to companies that we may acquire and therefore, this assessment may be complicated by any future acquisitions we may complete. While we continue to dedicate resources and management time to ensuring that we have effective controls over financial reporting, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the market’s perception of our business and our stock price. Force majeure events, such as terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, political instability and health epidemics may adversely affect us. Terrorist attacks, war and international political instability, along with health epidemics, may disrupt our ability to generate revenues. These events may negatively affect our ability to maintain sales revenue and to develop new business relationships. Because a substantial and growing part of our revenues is derived from sales and services to customers outside of the United States and we have our electronic payment systems manufactured outside the United States, terrorist attacks, war and international political instability anywhere may decrease international demand for our products and inhibit customer development opportunities abroad, disrupt our supply chain and impair our ability to deliver our electronic payment systems, which could materially adversely affect our net revenues or results of operations. Any of these events may also disrupt global financial markets and precipitate a decline in the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 46 