ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results could be adversely affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, the most significant of which are described below. Our revenue is substantially dependent on spending and allocation decisions by advertisers, and, seasonality and/or weakening economic conditions may have an impact upon our business. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from sales of advertisements and program sponsorships to local and national advertisers. Changes in advertisers' spending priorities and allocations across different types of media may affect our results. We do not obtain long-term commitments from our advertisers and advertisers may cancel, reduce or postpone advertisements without penalty, which could adversely affect our revenue. Seasonal net revenue fluctuations are common in the media industries and are due primarily to fluctuations in advertising expenditures by local and national advertisers. In addition, advertising revenues in even-numbered years benefit from advertising placed by candidates for political offices. The effects of such seasonality make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter and may adversely affect operating results. Advertising expenditures also tend to be cyclical, reflecting general economic conditions both nationally and locally. Because the Company derives a substantial portion of its revenues from the sale of advertising, a decline or delay in advertising expenditures could reduce the Company’s revenues or hinder its ability to increase these revenues. Advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the housing, automotive, financial and pharmaceutical industries, represent significant portion of the Company’s advertising revenues. Any political, economic, social or technological change resulting in a significant reduction in the advertising spending of these sectors could adversely affect the Company’s advertising revenues or its ability to increase such revenues. In addition, because many of the products and services offered by the Company are largely discretionary items, weakening economic conditions or outlook could reduce the consumption of such products and services and, thus, reduce advertising for such products and services. Changes in advertisers' spending priorities during economic cycles may also affect our results. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities also could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. 14 The Company’s success is dependent upon audience acceptance of its content, particularly its radio programs, which is difficult to predict. Media and radio content production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of media content or a radio program, and the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with the content or program, depend primarily upon their acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of content or a program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict. Rating points are also factors that are weighed when advertisers determine outlets to use and in determining the advertising rates that the outlet receives. Poor ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising revenues. For example, if there is an event causing a change of programming at one of the Company’s stations, there could be no assurance that any replacement programming would generate the same level of ratings, revenues or profitability as the previous programming. In addition, changes in rating methodology and technology, such as the rollout of the portable people meter (“PPM”), could adversely impact upon our ratings scores. A disproportionate share of our net revenue comes from radio stations in a small number of geographic markets and from Reach Media. Within our core radio business, four of the 17 markets in which we operate radio stations accounted for approximately 50.5% of our radio station net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. Revenue from the operations of Reach Media, along with revenue from both the Houston and Washington, DC markets accounted for approximately 40.2% of our total consolidated net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. Adverse events or conditions could lead to declines in the contribution of Reach Media or to declines in one or more of the significant contributing markets (Houston, Washington, DC, Atlanta and Baltimore), which could have a material adverse effect on our overall financial performance and results of operations. In addition, during 2007 and 2006, we experienced significant revenue declines from our Los Angeles station. While we continue to aggressively reposition and invest in the Los Angeles station to recapture ratings, market share and increased revenue, we can provide no assurance that these efforts will succeed or that declines will not occur in other markets from which we derive a significant portion of our revenue. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a single customer. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we derived approximately 10.5% of our total revenues from a single customer. If that customer were to cease or substantially reduce its use of our media outlets for advertising, it could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There is no assurance that we would be able to replace these lost revenues with revenues from new or other existing customers. We may lose audience share and advertising revenue to our competitors. Our radio stations and other media properties compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other radio stations and station groups and other media such as broadcast television, newspapers, magazines, cable television, satellite television, satellite radio, outdoor advertising, the Internet and direct mail. Adverse changes in audience ratings, internet traffic and market shares could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Larger media companies with more financial resources than we have may enter the markets in which we operate. Other media and broadcast companies may change their programming format or engage in aggressive promotional campaigns to compete directly with our media properties for audiences and advertisers. This competition could result in lower ratings and advertising revenue for us or cause us to increase promotion and other expenses and, consequently, lower our earnings and cash flow. Changes in population, demographics, audience tastes and other factors beyond our control could also cause changes in audience ratings or market share. Failure by us to respond successfully to these changes could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising revenue. If we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate businesses pursuant to our diversification strategy, our business and prospects may be adversely impacted. We are pursuing a strategy of acquiring and investing in other forms of media that complement our core radio business in an effort to grow and diversify our business and revenue streams. This strategy depends on our ability to find suitable opportunities and obtain acceptable financing. Negotiating transactions and integrating an acquired business could result in significant costs and use of management’s time and resources. 15 Our diversification strategy partially depends on our ability to identify attractive media properties at reasonable prices and to divest of radio stations that are no longer strategic to our core business. Some of the material risks that could hinder our ability to implement this strategy include: • reduction in the number of suitable acquisition targets due to increased competition for acquisitions; • we may lose key employees of acquired companies or stations; • new businesses may subject us to additional risk factors; • difficulty in integrating operations and systems and managing a diverse media business; • inability to find buyers for radio stations we target for sale at attractive prices due to decreasing market prices for radio stations; • failure or delays in completing acquisitions or divestitures due to difficulties in obtaining required regulatory approval, including possible difficulties by the seller or buyer in obtaining antitrust approval for acquisitions in markets where we already own multiple stations or establishing compliance with broadcast ownership rules; • failure of some acquisitions to prove profitable or generate sufficient cash flow; and • inability to finance acquisitions on acceptable terms, through incurring debt or issuing common stock. We can provide no assurance that our diversification strategy will be successful. We must respond to the rapid changes in technology, services and standards, in order to remain competitive. Technological standards across our media properties are evolving and new media technologies are emerging. We cannot assure you that we will have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services to compete with these new technologies. Several new media technologies are being, or have been, developed, including the following: • satellite delivered digital audio radio service, which has resulted in the introduction of several new satellite radio services with sound quality equivalent to that of compact discs; • audio programming by cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, Internet content providers and other digital audio broadcast formats; and • digital audio and video content available for listening and/or viewing on the Internet and/or available for downloading to portable devices. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt successfully to these new media technologies. The loss of key personnel, including on-air talent, could disrupt the management and operations of our business. Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers and other key employees, including on-air personalities. We believe that the combination of skills and experience possessed by our executive officers could be difficult to replace, and that the loss of one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on us, including the impairment of our ability to execute our business strategy. In addition, several of our on-air personalities and syndicated radio programs hosts have large loyal audiences in their respective broadcast areas and may be significantly responsible for the ranking of a station. The loss of such on-air personalities could impact the ability of the station to sell advertising and our ability to derive revenue from syndicating programs hosted by them. We cannot be assured that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current audiences or ratings. Our business depends on maintaining our licenses with the FCC. We could be prevented from operating a radio station if we fail to maintain its license. We are required to maintain radio broadcasting licenses issued by the FCC. These licenses are ordinarily issued for a maximum term of eight years and are renewable. Our radio broadcasting licenses expire at various times through August 1, 2014. Interested third parties may challenge our renewal applications. In addition, we are subject to extensive and changing regulation by the FCC with respect to such matters as programming, indecency standards, technical operations, employment and business practices. If we or any of our significant stockholders, officers, or directors violate the FCC’s rules and regulations or the Communications Act, or is convicted of a felony, the FCC may commence a proceeding to impose fines or sanctions upon us. Examples of possible sanctions include the imposition of fines, the renewal of one or more of our broadcasting licenses for a term of fewer than eight years or the revocation of our broadcast licenses. If the FCC were to issue an order denying a license renewal application or revoking a license, we would be required to cease operating the radio station covered by the license only after we had exhausted administrative and judicial review without success. 16 There is significant uncertainty regarding the FCC’s media ownership rules, and such rules could restrict our ability to acquire radio stations. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies limit the number of broadcasting properties that any person or entity may own (directly or by attribution) in any market and require FCC approval for transfers of control and assignments of licenses. The FCC’s media ownership rules remain in flux and subject to further agency and court proceedings. (See “Business — Federal Regulation of Radio Broadcasting.”) In addition to the FCC media ownership rules, the outside media interests of our officers and directors could limit our ability to acquire stations. The filing of petitions or complaints against Radio One or any FCC licensee from which we are acquiring a station could result in the FCC delaying the grant of, or refusing to grant or imposing conditions on its consent to the assignment or transfer of control of licenses. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies also impose limitations on non-U.S. ownership and voting of our capital stock. Increased enforcement by FCC of its indecency rules against the broadcast industry. In 2004, the FCC indicated that it was enhancing its enforcement efforts relating to the regulation of indecency. Congress has increased the penalties for broadcasting indecent programming and potentially subject broadcasters to license revocation, renewal or qualification proceedings in the event that they broadcast indecent material. In addition, the FCC’s heightened focus on the indecency regulatory scheme, against the broadcast industry generally, may encourage third parties to oppose our license renewal applications or applications for consent to acquire broadcast stations. Future asset impairment in the carrying value of our FCC licenses or goodwill could have an adverse effect. Goodwill and intangible assets totaled approximately $1.5 billion at December 31, 2007, primarily attributable to acquisitions in past years. We are required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” to test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually. Impairment is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset over its fair value. Impairment may result from deterioration in our performance, changes in anticipated future cash flows, changes in business plans, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, or other factors. The amount of any impairment must be expensed as a charge to operations. As a result of impairment testing performed in the fourth quarter of 2007, and as a result of certain of our asset dispositions during the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recognized an approximate $420.0 million impairment charge to its radio broadcasting licenses and other intangible assets, of which approximately $409.6 million was applicable to continuing operations, and $10.4 million was applicable to discontinued operations. For our continuing operations, the impairment charges occurred in several of our markets, predominantly Los Angeles and Houston, and to a lesser extent, our Boston, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus, Dallas, and Philadelphia markets. For discontinued operations, the impairment charges occurred in our Augusta, Minneapolis and Louisville markets. During the year ended December 31, 2006, a total impairment charge of approximately $63.3 million was recorded, $49.9 million of which related to our Los Angeles station and $13.4 million of which related to our Louisville market as part of discontinued operations. Any future determination of further impairment of our FCC licenses and/or goodwill could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operation of various real properties and facilities could lead to environmental liability. As the owner, lessee or operator of various real properties and facilities, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Historically, compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance, however, that compliance with existing or new environmental laws and regulations will not require us to make significant expenditures of funds. Two common stockholders have a majority voting interest in Radio One and have the power to control matters on which our common stockholders may vote, and their interests may conflict with yours. As of February 22, 2008, our Chairperson and her son, our President and CEO, collectively held approximately 88.3% of the outstanding voting power of our common stock. As a result, our Chairperson and the CEO will control our management and policies and most decisions involving Radio One, including transactions involving a change of control, such as a sale or merger. In addition, certain covenants in our debt instruments require that our Chairperson and the CEO maintain a specified ownership and voting interest in Radio One, and prohibit other parties’ voting interests from exceeding specified amounts. In addition, the TV One operating agreement provides for adverse consequences to Radio One in the event our Chairperson and CEO fail to maintain a specified ownership and voting interest in us. Our Chairperson and the CEO have agreed to vote their shares together in elections of members to the board of directors. Our substantial level of debt could limit our ability to grow and compete. As of February 22, 2008, we had indebtedness of approximately $825.5 million. In June 2005, we borrowed $437.5 million under our credit facility to retire all outstanding obligations under our previous credit facilities. Draw downs of revolving loans under the credit facility are subject to compliance with provisions of our credit agreement, including, but not limited to, certain financial covenants. As of December 31, 2007, we are permitted to borrow up to an additional $18.8 million under our current credit facility. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” A portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates. Increases in interest rates could increase the cost of our credit facilities. We have entered into various interest rate hedges to reduce our overall exposure to variable interest rates, consistent with the Credit Agreement which requires that at least 50% of our debt obligations be fixed rate in nature. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect us for various reasons, including limiting our ability to: • obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt payments or other corporate purposes; • have sufficient funds available for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes, after paying debt service; • compete with competitors that have less debt; and • react to changing market conditions, changes in our industry and economic downturns. 17 Our corporate debt rating was recently downgraded and we could suffer further downgrades. On December 20, 2007, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded our corporate family rating to B1 from Ba3 and our $800 million secured credit facility ($500 million revolver, $300 million term loan) to Ba2 from Ba1. In addition, Moody’s downgraded our 87/8% senior subordinated notes and 63/8% senior subordinated notes to B3 from B1. While noting that our rating outlook was stable, the ratings downgrade reflected the Company’s operating performance, weaker than previously expected credit metrics and limited capacity under financial covenants. Although reductions in our bond ratings may not have an immediate impact on our cost of debt or liquidity, they may impact our cost of debt and liquidity. Increased debt levels and/or decreased earnings could result in further downgrades in our credit ratings, which, in turn, could impede our access to the debt markets, reduce the total amount of commercial paper we could issue, raise our commercial paper borrowing costs and/or raise our long-term debt borrowing rates. Our ability to use debt to fund major new acquisitions or new business initiatives could also be limited. We could incur adverse effects from our voluntary review of stock option grants and resulting financial restatements. As described in the Explanatory Note and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements filed with our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded additional stock-based compensation expense and related tax effects with regard to certain past stock option grants, and restated certain previously filed financial statements included in that Form 10-K. In February 2007, we received a letter of informal inquiry from the SEC regarding the review of our stock option accounting. While we have not heard further from the SEC on this matter to date, should the SEC further inquire we would fully cooperate with the SEC’s inquiry. We are unable to predict whether a formal inquiry will be initiated or what consequences any further inquiry may have on us. We are unable to predict the likelihood of or potential outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock option practices. The resolution of these matters could be time-consuming and expensive, further distract management from other business concerns and harm our business. Furthermore, if we were subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business and financial condition. While we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our historical stock option grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk we may have to further restate prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. The foregoing list is not exhaustive. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact our business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, our debt agreements contain covenants that may limit our ability to borrow additional money, purchase or sell assets, incur liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, consolidations or mergers, and other restrictive covenants that may limit our operational flexibility. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 