Item1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. Interest rates have recently decreased after increasing for several years. The U.S. Federal Reserve increased its target for the federal funds rate 17 times, from 1.00% to 5.25% during the period from June 30, 2004 to June 30, 2006. The U.S. Federal Reserve then decreased its target for the federal funds rate by 300 basis points to 2.00% during the period from September 18, 2007 to March 31, 2008. A sustained falling interest rate environment has a negative impact on margins as the Bank has more interest-earning assets that adjust downward than interest-bearing liabilities that adjust downward. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our business is subject to various lending risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. Our current business strategy is focused on the expansion of commercial real estate and commercial business lending. These types of lending activities, while potentially more profitable than single-family residential lending, are generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. While as of the date of this report the economy generally remains good in our primary market of southwest Washington and northwest Oregon, the housing market has slowed recently, with weaker demand for housing, higher inventory levels and longer marketing times. A further downturn in housing, or the real estate market, could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In addition, these loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Further, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss. Accordingly, when there are defaults and losses on these types of loans, they are often larger on a per loan basis than those for permanent single-family or consumer loans. A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate and construction loans is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. 25 Our other real estate mortgage loans involve higher principal amounts than other loans and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. At March 31, 2008, we had $429.4 million of other real estate mortgage loans, representing 56.0% of our total loan portfolio. We originate other real estate mortgage loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes which are secured by commercial properties. The credit risk related to other real estate mortgage loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one-to-four family residential or other consumer loans because the repayment of these loans typically is dependent on the income stream of the real estate securing the loan as collateral and the successful operation of the borrower’s business, which can be significantly affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the economy. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In addition, many of these loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. These balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the balloon payment. If we foreclose on these loans, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one-to-four family residential mortgagee loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, these loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectibility of our other real estate mortgage loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or other consumer loans. Our real estate construction and land acquisition and development loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate. We originate construction loans for commercial properties, as well as for single-family home construction. At March 31, 2008, construction loans totaled $148.6 million, or 19.4% of our total loan portfolio. Land acquisition and development loans totaled $108.0 million, or 14.1% of our total loan portfolio at March 31, 2008. In general, construction, land acquisition and development lending involves additional risks because of the inherent difficulty in estimating both a property’s value at completion of the project and the estimated cost of the project. As a result, construction loans and land acquisition and development loans often involve the disbursement of funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. The nature of these loans is also such that they are generally more difficult to monitor. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. If our appraisal of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of the construction project and may incur a loss. These loans also pose additional risks because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral. Market conditions may result in borrowers having difficulty selling lots or homes in their developments for an extended period, which in turn could result in an increase in delinquencies and non-accrual loans. Additionally, if the current economic environment continues for a prolonged period of time or deteriorates further, collateral values may further decline and are likely to result in increased credit losses in these loans. A sustained downturn in real estate within the Company’s markets could negatively impact the Company. Many of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate located in southwest Washington and northwest Oregon. Declining real estate values may result in customer’s inability to repay loans. These trends may continue and may result in losses that exceed the estimates that are currently included in the allowance for loan losses, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review several factors including our loan loss and delinquency experience, underwriting practices, and economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover future losses in the loan portfolio, resulting in the need for greater additions to our allowance. Material additions to the allowance could materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.39% of total loans at March 31, 2008. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 26 Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the States of Washington and Oregon. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the states of Washington and Oregon and the specific local markets in which we operate. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers located primarily in seven counties of Washington and Oregon. The local economic conditions in our market areas have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. Adverse economic conditions unique to these Northwest markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, a significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these state and local markets and, in turn, also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Of particular concern are real estate values, which may further decline. If our market area were to experience significant declines in real estate values this decline may inhibit our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support our future growth. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the FHLB and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that we would be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB or market conditions were to change. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our profitability would be adversely affected. Although we consider such sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. Consolidation among financial service providers has resulted in fewer very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding a large accumulation of assets. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. Our competitors sometimes are also able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect additional institutions to try to exploit our market. Technological developments have allowed competitors including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost-efficiencies necessary to compete in our industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. 27 We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality, as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to successfully integrate any acquisition we may make. We regularly explore opportunities to acquire financial services businesses or assets and may also consider opportunities to acquire other banks or financial institutions. We cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions. Difficulties in integrating an acquired business or company may cause us not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business and the loss of deposits, customers and key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with any merger could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations following the acquisition or otherwise adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, primarily through the Bank. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. We rely on dividends from subsidiaries for most of our revenue. Riverview Bancorp, Inc is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations 28 Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in restating prior period financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 