ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS ARE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, INCLUDING THOSE DESCRIBED BELOW, THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, CASH FLOWS, AND THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Risks Relating to Our Business We currently derive approximately 65% of our revenues from the social welfare grants distribution service that we perform for SASSA. Our latest contract with SASSA, dated August 24, 2010, expires on March 31, 2011, and we may be required to bid with competitors for a new contract which may not be awarded to us. If we were to discontinue providing our distribution service to SASSA, we would lose all of these revenues. We currently derive a substantial majority of our revenues from the social welfare grants distribution service that we perform for SASSA, whereby we distribute these grants in five of the nine provinces of South Africa. For the foreseeable future, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows will depend on this activity. During the years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we derived approximately 66%, 65% and 67%, respectively, of our revenues from our contract with SASSA to distribute social welfare grants. On August 24, 2010, we entered into a new service level agreement with SASSA which expires on March 31, 2011, and we expect that we may be required to bid with competitors for a new contract. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining a new contract and were to discontinue providing our distribution service to SASSA, we would lose all of these revenues. In early 2007, SASSA commenced a national tender for the award of contracts to distribute social welfare grants throughout South Africa. We participated in the tender process and timely submitted proposals for each of South Africa’s nine provinces, as well as a proposal for the entire country. There were a series of extensive delays during the tender process which resulted in numerous extensions of our bid proposals as well as an extension of our existing contracts. On November 3, 2008, SASSA notified bidders that it had terminated the tender process without awarding new contracts, citing a number of defects in the original request for proposal published by SASSA and in the bid evaluation process. In late March 2009, we signed a new one-year contract with SASSA which expired on March 31, 2010 and which was subsequently extended to June 30, 2010. We signed a new agreement with SASSA on August 24, 2010. SASSA has stated that it may commence a new tender process at any time. SASSA’s decision to terminate the original tender process and the ensuing short-term agreements have created substantial uncertainty about the timing and ultimate outcome of the future contract award process. Once SASSA initiates a new tender process, we cannot assure you that the tender will result in our receiving a contract to continue to distribute social welfare grants in each of the five South African provinces where we currently distribute them. If we do not receive a new contract or if we were to discontinue providing our payment service to SASSA, we could lose a substantial majority of our revenues. Even if we do receive a new contract, or one or more extensions of the existing contract, we cannot predict the terms that such contracts will contain. Any new contract or extension we receive may contain pricing or other terms, such as provisions relating to early termination, that could be unfavorable to us. It is also possible that any new tender specification would include a requirement for the successful bidder to pre-fund the social welfare grants in the relevant province for a one month period, as we were required to do under certain of our previous provincial contracts, which would result in significant cash flow funding requirements for the contractor. The previous tender process and the negotiation of the new contract and subsequent extensions have consumed a substantial amount of our management’s time and attention during the past three years. Any future tender initiated by SASSA would require our management to devote further resources to the tender process which could adversely affect their ability to focus on other matters, including potential international business development activities. In addition, we have sued SASSA challenging, among other things, the cancellation of the previous tender process. We cannot predict the outcome of this litigation, or whether or how such litigation will affect the outcome of any future tender process. Moreover, even if we were to receive a new contract or contract extensions containing similar economic terms to those of our current contract, our profit margin could be adversely affected to the extent that any such contracts would require us to incur significant capital expenditures during the initial implementation phase. Historically, we have incurred a significant portion of the expenses associated with these contracts during the initial implementation phase, which averages approximately 18 months, and have historically enjoyed higher profit margins on these contracts after the completion of the implementation period. Therefore, to the extent that we were to be awarded a new contract that required significant capital expenditures, our profit margins would be adversely affected if the contract were to be terminated for any reason during the implementation period. 20 Finally, if we were to be awarded one or more contracts by SASSA, an unsuccessful tenderor could seek to challenge the award, which could result in the contract being set aside or could require us to expend time and resources in an attempt to defeat any such challenge. Our new contract with SASSA is less favorable to us than our previous contract which we expect to adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow for fiscal 2011. Furthermore, the terms of any further renewals or extensions or a contract awarded under a future tender process may be even less favorable to us than the current contract. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in diversifying our business and reducing our dependence on SASSA, our business and profitability will likely suffer. On August 24, 2010, we entered into a new service level agreement with SASSA which replaces our previous SASSA contract that expired on June 30, 2010. The new agreement is retroactively effective from July 1, 2010, and expires on March 31, 2011. The new contract contains a standard pricing formula for all provinces based on a transaction fee per beneficiary paid, regardless of the number or amount of grants paid per beneficiary, calculated on a guaranteed minimum number of beneficiaries per month. However, the new contract provides for a reduction in both the level of the transaction fee per beneficiary paid and the guaranteed minimum number of beneficiaries. Because we continue to derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from our SASSA contract, we expect that the terms of the new contract will materially reduce our revenues, operating income, net income and cash flow for fiscal 2011. Further, as described in the preceding risk factor, it is possible that any further extension or renewal of the current contract or even a contract which we may be awarded under a future tender process may be even less favorable to us. While we are making significant efforts to reduce our dependence on our SASSA contract by diversifying our business in South Africa and expanding internationally, to the extent that these efforts are not successful, we may not be able to offset the effects of the current and possible future less favorable terms from SASSA which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may undertake acquisitions that could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive to our business. Acquisitions are a significant part of our long-term growth strategy as we seek to grow our business internationally and to deploy our technologies in new markets both inside and outside South Africa. However, we may not be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition or, if the acquisition occurs, integrate the acquired business into our existing business. These transactions may require debt financing or additional equity financing, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership. Acquisitions of businesses or other material operations and the integration of these acquisitions will require significant attention from our senior management which may divert their attention from our day to day business. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. We also may not be able to maintain key employees or customers of an acquired business or realize cost efficiencies or synergies or other benefits that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. In addition, we may need to record write downs from future impairments of intangible assets, which could reduce our future reported earnings. As an example, we have determined to record a goodwill impairment charge of approximately $37.4 million related to our August 2008 acquisition of Net 1 UTA. Finally, acquisition candidates may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. We have recorded and may need to record additional impairment charges relating to our businesses. We assess the carrying value of goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently, whenever events occur and circumstances change indicating potential impairment. We perform our annual impairment test as of June 30 of each year. For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we recognized an impairment loss of approximately $37.4 million on goodwill allocated to the Hardware, software and related technology sales segment as a result of deteriorating trading conditions of this segment, particularly at Net1 UTA, and uncertainty surrounding contract finalization dates which will impact future cash flows. A further deterioration in the Hardware, software and related technology sales segment, or in any other of our businesses, may lead to additional impairments in future periods. 21 It may be difficult for us to implement our acquisition strategy in light of global market and economic conditions. We believe that it is frequently desirable to issue equity or equity-linked securities, as full or partial consideration for strategic acquisitions. However, our stock price suffered a substantial decline during the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and continues to trade well below its historic trading levels. The decline in our stock price has reduced the feasibility of our pursuing acquisitions in which we would issue our stock, at least in the near term. In addition, the conditions in the global credit markets and other related trends affecting the banking industry have caused significant operating losses and bankruptcies throughout the banking industry which has made acquisition financing more difficult to obtain. If our stock price remains too low to serve as acquisition currency or if we are unable to obtain acquisition financing, we may be unable to take advantage of potential acquisitions or to otherwise expand our business as planned. A prolonged economic slowdown or lengthy or severe recession in South Africa or elsewhere could harm our operations. A prolonged economic downturn or recession could materially impact our results from operations. A recessionary economic environment could have a negative impact on mobile phone operators, our cardholders and retailers and could reduce the level of transactions we process and the take-up of financial services we offer, which would, in turn, negatively impact our financial results. If financial institutions and retailers experience decreased demand for their products and services our hardware, software and related technology sales will reduce, resulting in lower revenue. The loss of the services of Dr. Belamant or any of our other executive officers would adversely affect our business. Our future financial and operational performance depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management, in particular, Dr. Serge Belamant, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman and Herman Kotze, our Chief Financial Officer. Many of our key responsibilities are performed by these two individuals, and the loss of the services of either of them could disrupt our development efforts or business relationships and our ability to continue to innovate and to meet customers’ needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We do not have employment agreements with our executive officers and they may terminate their employment at any time. We do not maintain any “key person” life insurance policies. We face a highly competitive employment market and may not be successful in attracting and retaining a sufficient number of skilled employees, particularly in the technical and sales areas and senior management. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to develop new products and to market these products to our target users. In order to succeed in our product development and marketing efforts, we need to identify, attract, motivate and retain sufficient numbers of qualified technical and sales personnel. An inability to hire and retain such technical personnel would adversely affect our ability to enhance our existing intellectual property, to introduce new generations of technology and to keep abreast of current developments in technology. Demand for personnel with the range of capabilities and experience we require is high and there is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining these employees. The risk exists that our technical skills and sales base may be depleted over time because of natural attrition. Furthermore, social and economic factors in South Africa have led, and continue to lead, numerous qualified individuals to leave the country, thus depleting the availability of qualified personnel in South Africa. In addition, our multi-country strategy will also require us to hire and retain highly qualified managerial personnel in each of these markets. If we cannot recruit and retain people with the appropriate capabilities and experience and effectively integrate these people into our business, it could negatively affect our product development and marketing activities. 22 We face competition from the incumbent retail banks in South Africa in the unbanked market segment, which could limit growth in our transaction-based activities segment. The incumbent South African retail banks have created a common banking product, generally referred to as a “Mzansi” account, for unbanked South Africans, which offers limited transactional capabilities at reduced charges, when compared to the accounts traditionally offered by these banks. According to the FinScope survey, which is an annual survey conducted by the FinMark Trust, a non-profit independent trust, approximately 4.4 million and 3.5 million people in South Africa claimed to use a Mzansi account in 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, the 2009 survey indicated that 22% of those surveyed opened a Mzansi account in order to receive a social welfare grant. It is possible for a social welfare beneficiary to receive grants through a Mzansi or other low-cost banking account. SASSA does not pay us a fee for the disbursement of grants through Mzansi or other low cost bank accounts and to the extent that beneficiaries use these accounts, rather than our smart card, to receive their grants, we will not be able to generate additional revenues from retail spending by these beneficiaries. In contrast, when a beneficiary receives grants through our smart card, we are able to generate incremental revenues from the use of our card in our merchant acquiring system because merchants participating in our merchant acquiring systems are also able to accept UEPS-based smart cards. Thus, our ability to increase our revenues and operating margins will be adversely affected to the extent that there is an increase in the number or percentage of South Africans using Mzansi or other low cost bank accounts to receive their social welfare grants. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the sale of our products or services to that customer tends to be long and may be subject to delays which may have an impact on our revenues. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the purchase of our products and services is often long and subject to delays associated with the budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that frequently accompany significant capital expenditures. A lengthy sales cycle may have an impact on the timing of our revenues, which may cause our quarterly operating results to fall below investor expectations. A customer’s decision to purchase our products and services is often discretionary, involves a significant commitment of resources, and is influenced by customer budgetary cycles. To sell our products and services successfully we generally must educate our potential customers regarding the uses and benefits of our products and services, which can require the expenditure of significant time and resources; however, there can be no assurance that this significant expenditure of time and resources will result in actual sales of our products and services. We may face competition from other companies that offer smart card technology and other innovative payment technologies, which could result in loss of our existing business and adversely impact our ability to successfully market additional products and services. In addition to competition that we face from the use of cash, checks, credit and debit cards, existing payment systems and the providers of financial services and low cost bank accounts such as Mzansi, there are a number of other products that use smart card technology in connection with a funds transfer system. During the past several years, smart card technology has become increasingly prevalent. We believe that the most competitive product in this marketplace is EMV, a system that is promoted by Visa Inc., MasterCard International and EuroPay International. Our ability to maintain our existing South African government contracts could be adversely affected to the extent that, in the future, the promoters of any of these systems would choose to compete directly in the South African pension and welfare business. We also may face competition from companies to which we have licensed our technology. In 1997, we entered into a technology license agreement with Visa. Under that agreement, Visa purchased a non-exclusive, perpetual, worldwide license to our technology rights, as defined in the agreement, relating to our UEPS technology and an exclusive, perpetual, worldwide license under our patents, as defined in the agreement, licensed to Visa that is exclusive to the financial services industry, as defined in the agreement. Our Visa agreement grants back to us the non-exclusive right under our Visa-licensed patents to make, use and sell our payment systems and other products in the financial services industry as discussed in the agreement. In our Visa agreement, Visa agrees not to grant a sublicense to any payment system to any entities in the financial services industry who are not members of Visa already if such entity already has a right to use such payment systems from us. The agreement permits Visa to sublicense our licensed technology rights to any of its members, any entity in the financial services industry or any entity outside of the financial services industry that provides products to Visa or its sublicensees. The agreement prohibits us from licensing our technology rights, not just our licensed patents, to any of Visa’s competitors, including MasterCard, Europay, American Express Company, Discover Financial Services, Diners Club International Credit Card Co., Carte Blanche Card or JCB International Credit Card Co. or any of their parents, subsidiaries or affiliates. We may need Visa’s consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, in order to transfer or assign our rights and obligations under the agreement. As this agreement does not contain a termination date and contains restrictions on our ability to license our technology rights in the financial services industry and to competitors of Visa, we may not be able to realize the full value of our technology rights. 23 Moreover, as our product offerings increase and gain market acceptance, banks in South Africa and other jurisdictions in which we operate may seek governmental or other regulatory intervention if they view us as disrupting their funds transfer or other businesses. System failures, including breaches in the security of our system, could harm our business. We may experience system failures from time to time, and any lengthy interruption in the availability of our back-end system computer could harm our revenues and profits, and could subject us to the scrutiny of our government customers. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential customers and users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to avoid our technology altogether, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. These interruptions would increase the burden on our engineering staff, which, in turn, could delay our introduction of new applications and services. Finally, because our customers may use our products for critical transactions, any system failures could result in damage to our customers’ businesses. These customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim could be time consuming and costly for us to address. Although our systems have been designed to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and similar events. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Protection against fraud is of key importance to the purchasers and end users of our solutions. We incorporate security features, including encryption software, biometric identification and secure hardware, into our solutions to protect against fraud in electronic transactions and to provide for the privacy and integrity of card holder data. Our solutions may be vulnerable to breaches in security due to defects in the security mechanisms, the operating system and applications or the hardware platform. Security vulnerabilities could jeopardize the security of information transmitted using our solutions. If the security of our solutions is compromised, our reputation and marketplace acceptance of our solutions will be adversely affected, which would cause our business to suffer, and we may become subject to damage claims. We have not yet experienced any security breaches affecting our business. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems with our system could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Our current business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. The failure of any bank or financial institution in which we keep our cash and cash equivalents may prevent us from funding our business or may lead to substantial losses of assets. We maintain a significant amount of cash and cash equivalents to fund our business operations at several major South African and European banks and financial institutions. As of June 30, 2010, we maintained an aggregate of $153.7 million in cash and cash equivalents which were deposited with such banks and financial institutions. Although we maintain a policy of entering into transactions only with South African and European banks and financial institutions that have ratings acceptable to our board, as determined by credit rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch Ratings, due to the recent credit crisis and global economic conditions, it is possible that despite such ratings, one or more of these banks or financial institutions may fail. The failure of one or more of these institutions may cause us to lose a significant amount of cash and cash equivalents. In addition to the actual value of our company which would be reduced due to the loss of cash and cash equivalents, our business could be materially and adversely affected by the failure of any institution where we maintain our cash and cash equivalents. Although to date we have not experienced any such losses or been prevented from funding our business operations, in light of recent global economic conditions such losses may occur in the future. 24 Our strategy of partnering with companies outside South Africa may not be successful. In order for us to expand our operations into foreign markets, it may be necessary for us to establish partnering arrangements with companies outside South Africa, such as the ones we have established in Namibia, Botswana, Nigeria, Colombia and Vietnam. The success of these endeavors is, however, subject to a number of factors over which we have little or no control, such as finding suitable partners with the appropriate financial, business and technical backing and continued governmental support for planned implementations. In some countries, finding suitable partners and obtaining the appropriate support from the government involved may take a number of years before we can commence implementation. Some of these partnering arrangements may take the form of joint ventures in which we receive a minority interest. Minority ownership carries with it numerous risks, including dependence on partners to provide knowledge of local market conditions and to facilitate the acquisition of any necessary licenses and permits, as well as the inability to control the joint venture vehicle and to direct its policies and strategies. Such a lack of control could result in the loss of all or part of our investment in such entities. In addition, our foreign partners may have different business methods and customs which may be unfamiliar to us and with which we disagree. Our joint venture partners may not be able to implement our business model in new areas as efficiently and quickly as we have been able to do in South Africa. Furthermore, limitations imposed on Net1 Applied Technologies South Africa Limited, or New Aplitec, by South African exchange control regulations, as well as limitations imposed on us by the Investment Company Act of 1940, may limit our ability to establish partnerships or entities in which we do not obtain a controlling interest. In addition, certain of our licensees, including Visa, have become our competitors and this could occur with our joint venture partners in the future. We may have difficulty managing our growth, especially as we expand our business internationally. We continue to experience growth, both in the scope of our operations and size of our organization. This growth is placing significant demands on our management, especially as we expand our business internationally. Continued growth would increase the challenges involved in implementing appropriate operational and financial systems, expanding our technical and sales and marketing infrastructure and capabilities, providing adequate training and supervision to maintain high quality standards, and preserving our culture and values. International growth, in particular, means that we must become familiar and comply with complex laws and regulations in other countries, especially laws relating to taxation. Additionally, continued growth will place significant additional demands on our management and our financial and operational resources, and will require that we continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls. If we cannot scale and manage our business appropriately, we will not experience our projected growth and our financial results may suffer. We pre-fund the payment of social welfare grants through our merchant acquiring system and a significant level of payment defaults by these merchants would adversely affect us. We pre-fund social welfare grants through the merchants who participate in our merchant acquiring system in the provinces where we operate. These pre-funding obligations expose us to the risk of default by these merchants. Although we have not experienced any material defaults by merchants in the return of pre-funded amounts to us, we cannot guarantee that material defaults will not occur in the future. A material level of merchant defaults could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial position and results of operations. We may incur material losses in connection with our distribution of cash to recipients of social welfare grants. Many social welfare recipients use our services to access cash using their smart cards. We use armored vehicles to deliver large amounts of cash to rural areas across South Africa to enable these welfare recipients to receive this cash. In some cases, we also store the cash that will be delivered by the armored vehicles in depots overnight or over the weekend to facilitate delivery to these rural areas. We cannot insure against the risk of loss or theft of cash from our delivery vehicles as we have not identified any insurance underwriters willing to accept this risk on reasonable terms. Therefore, we will bear the full cost of any loss or theft in connection with the delivery process, and such loss could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The Company did not incur any material losses resulting from cash distribution during fiscal 2010, 2009 or 2008, but there is no assurance that we will not incur material losses in the future. 25 We depend upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. We obtain our smart cards, POS devices and the other hardware we use in our business from a limited number of suppliers, and do not manufacture this equipment ourselves. We generally do not have long-term agreements with our manufacturers or component suppliers. If our suppliers become unwilling or unable to provide us with adequate supplies of parts or products when we need them, or if they increase their prices, we may not be able to find alternative sources in a timely manner and could be faced with a critical shortage. This could harm our ability to implement new systems and cause our revenues to decline. Even if we are able to secure alternative sources in a timely manner, our costs could increase. A supply interruption or an increase in demand beyond current suppliers’ capabilities could harm our ability to distribute our equipment and thus, to acquire a new source of customers who use our UEPS technology. Any interruption in the supply of the hardware necessary to operate our technology, or our inability to obtain substitute equipment at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Shipments of our electronic payment systems may be delayed by factors outside of our control, which can harm our reputation and our relationships with our customers. The shipment of payment systems requires us or our manufacturers, distributors or other agents to obtain customs or other government certifications and approvals and, on occasion, to submit to physical inspection of our systems in transit. Failure to satisfy these requirements, and the very process of trying to satisfy them, can lead to lengthy delays in the delivery of our solutions to our direct or indirect customers. Delays and unreliable delivery by us may harm our reputation and our relationships with our customers. Risks Relating to Operating in South Africa and Other Emerging Markets Fluctuations in the value of the South African rand have had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our reported results of operations, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business performance between reporting periods and may also adversely affect our stock price. The South African rand, or ZAR, is the primary operating currency for our business operations while our financial results are reported in US dollars. This means that as long as the ZAR remains our primary operating currency, depreciation in the ZAR against the US dollar, and to a lesser extent, the euro, would negatively impact our reported revenue and net income, while a strengthening of the ZAR would have the opposite effect. Depreciation in the ZAR may negatively impact the prices at which our stock trades. The US dollar/ZAR exchange rate has historically been volatile and we expect this volatility to continue. The ZAR was significantly weaker overall during 2009 than during 2010 and 2008, which negatively affected our reported 2009 results of operations when compared to 2010 and 2008. We provide detailed information about historical exchange rates in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Currency Exchange Rate Information.” Due to the significant fluctuation in the value of the ZAR and its impact on our reported results, you may find it difficult to compare our results of operations between financial reporting periods even though we provide supplemental information about our results of operations determined on a ZAR basis. This difficulty may increase as we expand our business internationally and record additional revenue and expenses in the euro and other currencies. It may also have a negative impact on our stock price. We generally do not engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations, other than economic hedging relating to our inventory purchases which are settled in US dollars or euros. We have used forward contracts in order to hedge our economic exposure to the ZAR/US dollar and ZAR/euro exchange rate fluctuations from these foreign currency transactions. We cannot guarantee that we will enter into hedging transactions in the future or, if we do, that these transactions will successfully protect us against currency fluctuations. 26 South Africa’s high levels of poverty, unemployment and crime may increase our costs and impair our ability to maintain a qualified workforce. While South Africa has a highly developed financial and legal infrastructure, it also has high levels of crime and unemployment and there are significant differences in the level of economic and social development among its people, with large parts of the population, particularly in the rural areas, having limited access to adequate education, healthcare, housing and other basic services, including water and electricity. Government policies aimed at alleviating and redressing the disadvantages suffered by the majority of citizens under previous governments may increase our costs and reduce our profitability, all of which could negatively affect our business. These problems may prompt emigration of skilled workers, hinder investment into South Africa and impede economic growth. As a result, we may have difficulties attracting and retaining qualified employees. The economy of South Africa is exposed to high inflation and interest rates which could increase our operating costs and thereby reduce our profitability. The economy of South Africa in the past has been, and in the future may continue to be, characterized by rates of inflation and interest rates that are substantially higher than those prevailing in the United States and other highly developed economies. High rates of inflation could increase our South African-based costs and decrease our operating margins. Although higher interest rates would increase the amount of income we earn on our cash balances, they would also adversely affect our ability to obtain cost-effective debt financing in South Africa. If we do not achieve applicable black economic empowerment objectives in our South African businesses, we risk losing our government and private contracts. In addition, it is possible that we may be required to achieve black shareholding of our company in a manner that could dilute your ownership. The South African government, through the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, 2003, established a legislative framework for the promotion of BEE. The law recognizes two distinct mechanisms for the achievement of BEE objectives—compliance with codes of good practice, which have already been issued, and compliance with industry-specific transformation charters. Although the charter that will likely apply to our company has not yet been finalized, we believe it is likely that the charter will not differ substantially from the codes of good practice. Achievement of BEE objectives is measured by a “scorecard” which establishes a weighting to various components of BEE. One component of BEE is achieving a certain percentage of shareholdings by black South Africans in South African businesses over a period of years. This shareholding component carries the highest BEE scorecard weighting. Other components include procuring goods and services from black-owned businesses or from businesses that have earned good BEE scores and achieving certain levels of black South African employment. Compliance with the codes and applicable charters are not enforced through civil or criminal sanction, but compliance does affect the ability of a company to secure contracts in the public and private sectors. Thus, it will be important for us to achieve applicable BEE objectives. Failing to do so could jeopardize our ability to maintain existing business, including our South African pension and welfare business, or to secure future business. We have taken a number of actions as a company to increase empowerment of black South Africans. However, it is possible that these actions may not be sufficient to enable us to achieve applicable BEE objectives. In that event, in order to avoid risking the loss of our government and private contracts, we may have to seek to comply through other means, including by selling shares of Net1 or of our South African subsidiaries to black South Africans. Such sales of shares could have a dilutive impact of your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. South African exchange control regulations could hinder our ability to make foreign investments and obtain foreign-denominated financing. South Africa’s exchange control regulations restrict the export of capital from South Africa, the Republic of Namibia and the Kingdoms of Lesotho and Swaziland, known collectively as the Common Monetary Area without the prior approval of SARB. While the South African government has relaxed exchange controls in recent years, it is difficult to predict whether or how it will further relax or abolish exchange control measures in the foreseeable future. 27 Although Net1 is a US corporation and is not itself subject to South African exchange control regulations, these regulations do restrict the ability of our South African subsidiaries to raise and deploy capital outside the Common Monetary Area, to borrow money in currencies other than the South African rand and to hold foreign currency. Exchange control restrictions may also affect the ability of these subsidiaries ability to pay dividends to Net1 unless the affected subsidiary can show that any payment of such dividend will not place it in an over borrowed position. As of June 30, 2010, approximately 91% of our cash and cash equivalents were held by our South African subsidiaries. Exchange control regulations could make it difficult for our South African subsidiaries to: (i) export capital from South Africa; (ii) hold foreign currency or incur indebtedness denominated in foreign currencies without the approval of SARB; (iii) acquire an interest in a foreign venture without the approval of SARB and first having complied with the investment criteria of SARB; (iv) repatriate to South Africa profits of foreign operations; and (v) limit our business to utilize profits of one foreign business to finance operations of a different foreign business. Under current exchange control regulations, SARB approval would be required for any acquisition of our company which would involve payment to our South African shareholders of any consideration other than South African rand. This restriction could limit our management in its ability to consider strategic options and thus, our shareholders may not be able to realize the premium over the current trading price of our shares. HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis are major healthcare challenges in South Africa and other sub-Saharan countries. The prevalence of these diseases may force us to incur costs relating to the loss of personnel, reduction in the productivity of our workforce and recruiting and training of new personnel. HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis, which is exacerbated in the presence of HIV/AIDS, are major healthcare challenges in South Africa and other sub-Saharan countries. We cannot estimate how much of our South African workforce may be infected with HIV/AIDS, due to the high prevalence of HIV/AIDS in South Africa, we may incur costs relating to the loss of personnel and the related loss of productivity as well as medical costs and costs relating to recruiting and training of new personnel. In addition, the potential for increased mortality rates due to HIV/AIDS deaths to reduce or slow the growth of the South African population could adversely impact our growth. Most of these factors are beyond our control. We are not able to quantify the impact of HIV/AIDS on our growth or costs and cannot assure you that the costs we will incur in connection with this epidemic will not have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our operations. Most of South Africa’s major industries are unionized, and the majority of employees belong to trade unions. We face the risk of disruption from labor disputes and new South African labor laws. In the past, trade unions have had a significant impact on the collective bargaining process as well as on social and political reform in South Africa in general. Although only approximately five percent of our workforce is unionized and we have not experienced any labor disruptions in recent years, such labor disruptions may occur in the future. In addition, developments in South African labor laws may increase our costs or alter our relationship with our employees and trade unions, which may have an adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our operations. Operating in South Africa and other emerging markets subjects us to greater risks than those we would face if we operated in more developed markets. Emerging markets such as South Africa, as well as some of the other markets into which we have recently begun to expand, including African countries outside South Africa, South America, Southeast Asia and Central and Eastern Europe, are subject to greater risks than more developed markets. While we focus our business primarily on emerging markets because that is where we perceive there to be the greatest opportunities to market our products and services successfully, the political, economic and market conditions in many of these markets present risks that could make it more difficult to operate our business successfully. 28 Some of these risks include: political and economic instability, including higher rates of inflation and currency fluctuations; high levels of corruption, including bribery of public officials; loss due to civil strife, acts of war or terrorism, guerrilla activities and insurrection; a lack of well-developed legal systems which could make it difficult for us to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights; logistical and communications challenges; potential adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices, including import and export license requirements and restrictions, tariffs, legal structures and tax laws; difficulties in staffing and managing operations and ensuring the safety of our employees; restrictions on the right to convert or repatriate currency or export assets; greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; indigenization and empowerment programs; and exposure to liability under US securities and foreign trade laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and regulations established by the US Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC. Many of these countries and regions are in various stages of developing institutions and political, legal and regulatory systems that are characteristic of democracies. However, institutions in these countries and regions may not yet be as firmly established as they are in democracies in the developed world. Many of these countries and regions are also in the process of transitioning to a market economy and, as a result, are experiencing changes in their economies and their government policies that can affect our investments in these countries and regions. Moreover, the procedural safeguards of the new legal and regulatory regimes in these countries and regions are still being developed and, therefore, existing laws and regulations may be applied inconsistently. In some circumstances, it may not be possible to obtain the legal remedies provided under those laws and regulations in a timely manner. As the political, economic and legal environments remain subject to continuous development, investors in these countries and regions face uncertainty as to the security of their investments. Any unexpected changes in the political or economic conditions in these or neighboring countries or others in the region may have a material adverse effect on the international investments that we have made or may make in the future, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Risks Relating to Government Regulation We are required to comply with certain US laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as well as economic and trade sanctions, which could adversely impact our future growth. We must comply with the FCPA, which prohibits US companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. In addition, OFAC administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on US foreign policy and national security goals. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees, agents and business partners comply with the FCPA could subject us to substantial penalties. In addition, the requirement that we comply with the FCPA could put us at a competitive disadvantage with companies that are not required to comply with the FCPA or could otherwise harm our business. For example, in many emerging markets, there may be significant levels of official corruption, and thus, bribery of public officials may be a commonly accepted cost of doing business. Our refusal to engage in illegal behavior, such as paying bribes, may result in us not being able to obtain business that we might otherwise have been able to secure or possibly even result in unlawful, selective or arbitrary action being taken against us by foreign officials. Furthermore, the trade sanctions administered and enforced by OFAC target countries which are typically less developed countries. Since less developed countries present some of the best opportunities for us to expand our business internationally, restrictions against entering into transactions with those foreign countries, as well as with certain entities and individuals in those countries, can adversely affect our ability to grow our business. 29 Changes in current South African government regulations relating to social welfare grants could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. We derive a substantial portion of our current business from the distribution of social welfare grants onto smart cards in South Africa and the transaction fees resulting from use of these smart cards. Because social welfare eligibility and grant amounts are regulated by the South African government, any changes to or reinterpretations of the government regulations relating to social welfare may result in the non-renewal or reduction of grants for certain individuals, or a determination that currently eligible social welfare grant recipients are no longer eligible. If any of these changes were to occur, the number of smart cards in use could decrease, the amount of money on any particular smart card could decrease or the amount of transactions effected on any particular smart card may decrease, all of which could result in a reduction of our revenues and cash flows. We do not have a South African banking license and therefore we provide our wage payment solution through an arrangement with a third party bank, which limits our control over this business and the economic benefit we derive from it. If this arrangement were to terminate, we would not be able to operate our wage payment business without alternate means of access to a banking license The South African retail banking market is highly regulated, but the South African government has identified the need to service the unbanked market through the liberalization of the regulatory environment in order for retailers and non-banking service providers to innovate products and delivery channels for the unbanked market. However, under current law and regulations, a portion of our South African wage payment business activities in the unbanked market requires us to be registered as a bank in South Africa or to have access to an existing banking license. We are not currently so registered, but we have entered into a co-operation agreement with Grindrod Bank through which our wage payment solution is being implemented by Grindrod Bank’s retail division. As a result of this arrangement, we do not have complete control over the marketing and implementation of our wage payment system and we have to share the economic benefits with Grindrod Bank. If the co-operation agreement were to be terminated, we would not be able to operate our wage payment business unless we were able to obtain access to a banking license through alternate means. In addition, the South African Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002, requires persons who give advice regarding the purchase of financial products or who act as intermediaries between financial product suppliers and consumers in South Africa to register as financial service providers. We have applied for a license under this Act in order to continue to provide advice and intermediary services in respect of the financial products on which we advise and the payment processing services we provide in South Africa on behalf of insurers and other financial product suppliers. If we fail to obtain this license, we may be stopped from continuing this part of our business in South Africa. Our payment processing businesses in South Africa are subject to substantial governmental regulation and may be adversely affected by liability under, or any future inability to comply with, existing or future regulations or requirements. Our payment processing activities are subject to extensive regulation. Compliance with the requirements under these various regulatory regimes may cause us to incur significant additional costs and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability. We may be subject to privacy laws in South Africa and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Compliance with these laws may adversely affect our ability to operate our business most effectively. Moreover, we could face liability for damages if we are found to have violated any of these privacy laws. Our collection, storage and processing, and any disclosure of, customer and employee personal information must comply with South Africa’s privacy laws, which are at various stages of legislative and judicial development. However, South African common law and the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996, do recognize an individual’s right to privacy, and there are some statutes and other regulations which have been enacted that apply to us and the way we operate our business. For example, one statute sets out a framework for the electronic collection, processing, storage and disclosure of personal information. Although compliance with this statute is voluntary, a South African court could determine that we would be violating an individual’s right to privacy if we do not operate in compliance with this framework. In addition, South African law requires that we must keep confidential the HIV status of the people that participate in any HIV/AIDS program. New privacy laws may be enacted in the future which could adversely affect the way we do business, and we could be required to devote substantial management time and resources to comply with these new laws. In addition, if we violate, or are judged to have violated, the privacy rights of people whose information we collect, store and process, we could become liable for damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. 30 Risks Relating to Intellectual Property Patent competition may adversely affect our products or processes, and limited patent protection, a lack of proprietary protection and the potential to incur costly litigation could be harmful to our operations. Our products and technology have unique characteristics and structures and, as a result, are subject to patent protection, the extent of which varies from country to country. During the life of a patent, a product is only subject to competition by non-infringing products. However, aggressive patenting by our competitors and potential patent piracy may threaten protected products and processes and may result in an increased patent infringement risk, especially in emerging economies such as those where we currently operate. The expiration of a patent may also result in increased competition in the market for the previously patented products and processes. The patents for our FTS will expire at various dates ending in 2011. Lack of patent protection could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, to date, we have relied not only on patent protections, but also on trade secret, trademark and copyright laws, as well as nondisclosure, licensing and other contractual arrangements to protect the proprietary aspects of our solutions. Other than the patents discussed above, we do not own any other patents that protect important aspects of our current solutions. We will, however, prepare patent applications where possible for technology related to our smart cards and UEPS system when we believe it is appropriate to do so. These applications and contractual arrangements and our reliance on these laws may not be successful. Litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or protect our trade secrets could result in substantial costs and may not be successful. Any loss of, or inability to protect, intellectual property in our technology could diminish our competitive advantage and also seriously harm our business. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws in countries where we currently have patent protection. Our means of protecting our intellectual property rights in countries where we currently have patent protection or any other country in which we operate, may not be adequate to fully protect our intellectual property rights. Similarly, if third parties claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, we may be required to incur significant costs and devote substantial resources to the defense of such claims. We may be required to discontinue using and selling any infringing technology and services, to expend resources to develop non-infringing technology or to purchase licenses or pay royalties for other technology. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in defending any such third-party claims, we could suffer costly judgments and injunctions that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The copyrights and certain related intellectual property rights in earlier versions of our UEPS software are jointly owned and potentially subject to non-exclusive rights, which may reduce our future revenues. While we own the exclusive copyrights in the current version of the UEPS software, these copyrights are subject to the preexisting copyrights in the earlier versions of our software that are owned jointly by us and Nedbank Limited, or Nedbank. As joint owners of the copyrights in these earlier versions of our software that existed prior to July 2000, there is a risk that Nedbank could license these works to others and otherwise commercially exploit these earlier works. Under our Nedbank agreements, Nedbank also acquired the right to request a license of our South African and US FTS patents and of all technology and know-how relating to the UEPS described in those earlier patents from us for entities partly owned by Nedbank that are located anywhere within South Africa and neighboring countries. Under these licenses, Nedbank would pay us a license fee, with us supplying smart cards or being paid a royalty if the cards are obtained from a third party. If Nedbank licenses our works to others or otherwise commercially exploits our technology and know-how related to UEPS, our future revenues may be reduced. Our current license agreement with Visa imposes long-term restrictions on our ability to license rights in our technology and could inhibit our ability to realize additional revenue from these rights in our technology. In 1997, we entered into a technology license agreement with Visa. Under that agreement, Visa purchased a non-exclusive, perpetual, worldwide license to our technology rights, as defined in the agreement, relating to our UEPS technology and an exclusive, perpetual, worldwide license under our patents, as defined in the agreement, licensed to Visa that is exclusive to the financial services industry, as defined in the agreement. Our Visa agreement grants back to us the non-exclusive right under our Visa-licensed patents to make, use and sell our payment systems and other products in the financial services industry as discussed in the agreement. In our Visa agreement, Visa agrees not to grant a sublicense to any payment system to any entities in the financial services industry who are not members of Visa already if such entity already has a right to use such payment systems from us. 31 The agreement permits Visa to sublicense our licensed technology rights to any of its members, any entity in the financial services industry or any entity outside of the financial services industry that provides products to Visa or its sublicensees. The agreement prohibits us from licensing our technology rights, not just our licensed patents, to any of Visa’s competitors, including MasterCard, Europay, American Express Company, Discover Financial Services, Diners Club International Credit Card Co., Carte Blanche Card or JCB International Credit Card Co. or any of their parents, subsidiaries or affiliates. We may need Visa’s consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, in order to transfer or assign our rights and obligations under the agreement. As this agreement does not contain a termination date and contains restrictions on our ability to license our technology rights in the financial services industry and to competitors of Visa, we may not be able to realize the full value of our technology rights. Our license agreement with Visa substantially impacts our ability to defend and enforce our patents licensed to Visa and could substantially inhibit our ability to protect the rights in our technology. Under our license agreement with Visa, we are restricted from suing Visa, its members and any third-party vendors or customers of Visa or its members for infringement of our technology rights licensed to Visa in connection with their manufacture, use or sale of any product or service offered by Visa. The license also grants Visa sole discretion with regard to enforcement of any of the licensed technology rights against third parties in the financial services industry. Under the agreement, Visa has the right to control the prosecution and maintenance of the patents and related patent applications we have licensed to Visa in all jurisdictions, and we are obligated to cooperate and support any of Visa’s actions in this regard. This arrangement could substantially impact our ability to defend these patents, and could make enforcement actions against our competitors more difficult. Risks Relating to our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has experienced recent significant volatility. During the 2010 fiscal year, our stock price ranged from a low of $12.36 to a high of $22.47. We expect that the trading price of our common stock may continue to be volatile as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following: developments or the absence of developments in obtaining a new tender or contract from SASSA; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the US dollar/ZAR exchange rate; quarterly variations in our operating results, especially if our operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors; announcements of acquisitions or disposals; the timing of or delays in the commencement, implementation or completion of major projects; large purchases or sales of our common stock; general conditions in the markets in which we operate; and economic and financial conditions. In particular, differences in relative growth rates between our businesses in our established markets for certain products and unestablished markets may have a significant effect on our operating results, particularly our reported operating profit margin, in any individual quarter, with unestablished market sales typically carrying lower margins in the initial phases of our operations in a new area or the introduction of a new product to an area in which we already operate. Certain transactions are difficult to predict and may have a significant effect on our operating results. Sales of this nature include hardware sales to customers and to our “SmartSwitch” investments and cause fluctuations in revenue and operating income when they occur. We may seek to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of our shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, programming development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies, or to fund acquisitions. Because of the exposure to market risks associated with economies in emerging markets, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and voting power of shares of common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. 32 We may have difficulty raising necessary capital to fund operations or acquisitions as a result of market price volatility for our shares of common stock. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies, to expand into new markets and to make acquisitions, all of which may be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. Issuances of significant amounts of stock in the future could potentially dilute your equity ownership and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We believe that it is necessary to maintain a sufficient number of available authorized shares of our common stock in order to provide us with the flexibility to issue shares for business purposes that may arise from time to time. For example, we could sell additional shares to raise capital to fund our operations or to acquire other businesses, issue additional shares under our stock incentive plan or declare a stock dividend. Our board may authorize the issuance of additional shares of common stock without notice to, or further action by, our shareholders, unless shareholder approval is required by law or the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. The issuance of additional shares could dilute the equity ownership of our current shareholders. In addition, additional shares that we issue would likely be freely tradable which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, especially over companies that we may acquire, could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2010, excluded the operations of MediKredit and FIHRST. If we are not able to integrate MediKredit and FIHRST’s operations into our internal control over financial reporting, our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes, we are required to furnish a management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal control that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The requirement to evaluate and report on our internal controls also applies to companies that we acquire. As private companies, MediKredit and FIHRST were not required to comply with Sarbanes prior to the acquisitions by us. The integration of these operations into our internal control over financial reporting has required significant time and resources from our management and other personnel and may increase our compliance costs. As permitted by SEC rules, our management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2010, excluded the operations of MediKredit and FIHRST. If we fail to successfully integrate these operations into our internal control over financial reporting, our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective. While we continue to dedicate resources and management time to ensuring that we have effective controls over financial reporting, including with respect to the MediKredit and FIHRST operations, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the market’s perception of our business and our stock price. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws, against us or our directors and officers and experts. While Net1 is incorporated in the state of Florida, United States, the company is headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa and substantially all of the company’s assets are located outside the United States. 33 In addition, the majority of Net1’s directors and officers reside outside of the United States and our experts, including our independent registered public accountants, are based in South Africa. As a result, even though you could effect service of legal process upon Net1, as a Florida corporation, in the United States, you may not be able to collect any judgment obtained against Net1 in the United States, including any judgment based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, because substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Moreover, it may not be possible for you to effect service of legal process upon the majority of our directors and officers or upon our experts within the United States or elsewhere outside South Africa and any judgment obtained against any of our foreign directors, officers and experts in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by a South African court. A foreign judgment is not directly enforceable in South Africa, but constitutes a cause of action which will be enforced by South African courts provided that: the court or arbitral body which pronounced the judgment had international jurisdiction and competence to entertain the case according to the principles recognized by South African law with reference to the jurisdiction of foreign courts; the judgment is final and conclusive (that is, it cannot be altered by the court which pronounced it); the judgment has not lapsed; the recognition and enforcement of the judgment by South African courts would not be contrary to public policy in South Africa, including observance of the rules of natural justice which require that no award is enforceable unless the defendant was duly served with documents initiating proceedings, that he was given a fair opportunity to be heard and that he enjoyed the right to be legally represented in a free and fair trial before an impartial tribunal; the judgment was not obtained by improper or fraudulent means; the judgment does not involve the enforcement of a penal or foreign revenue law or any award of multiple or punitive damages; and the enforcement of the judgment is not otherwise precluded by the provisions of the Protection of Business Act 99 of 1978 (as amended), of the Republic of South Africa. It has been the policy of South African courts to award compensation for the loss or damage actually sustained by the person to whom the compensation is awarded. South African courts have awarded compensation to shareholders who have suffered damages as a result of a diminution in the value of their shares based on various actions by the corporation and its management. Although the award of punitive damages is generally unknown to the South African legal system, that does not mean that such awards are necessarily contrary to public policy. Whether a judgment was contrary to public policy depends on the facts of each case. Exorbitant, unconscionable, or excessive awards will generally be contrary to public policy. South African courts cannot enter into the merits of a foreign judgment and cannot act as a court of appeal or review over the foreign court. Further, if a foreign judgment is enforced by a South African court, it will be payable in South African currency. Also, under South Africa’s exchange control laws, the approval of SARB is required before a defendant resident in South Africa may pay money to a non-resident plaintiff in satisfaction of a foreign judgment enforced by a court in South Africa. It is doubtful whether an original action based on United States federal securities laws may be brought before South African courts. A plaintiff who is not resident in South Africa may be required to provide security for costs in the event of proceedings being initiated in South Africa. Furthermore, the Rules of the High Court of South Africa require that documents executed outside South Africa must be authenticated for the purpose of use in South African courts. In reaching the foregoing conclusions, we consulted with our South African legal counsel, Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr Inc. We may become subject to a US tax liability for failing to withhold on certain distributions on instruments issued in connection with the Aplitec transaction. There is no statutory, judicial or administrative authority that directly addresses the tax treatment of non-US holders that elected to receive units in a trust representing beneficial interests in B class preference shares and B class loan accounts issued by New Aplitec pursuant to the reinvestment option in connection with our acquisition of Aplitec. We believe these interests should be treated for United States federal income tax purposes as, and we did treat them as, separate and distinct interests in New Aplitec. As such, we and our affiliates did not withhold any amounts for US federal taxes in respect of any distributions paid on such interests. There is a risk, however, that these interests, together with the special convertible preferred stock, may be treated as representing a single direct equity interest in us for US federal income tax purposes. In such case, distributions received with respect to the B class preference shares and B class loan accounts could be subject to US federal withholding tax, and we could be liable for failure to withhold such taxes in our capacity as withholding agent. In addition, our failure to collect and remit US federal withholding tax may also subject us to penalties. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 34 