RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Brazil Brazilian political and economic conditions have a direct impact on our business and the market price of the Class B Shares and ADSs. All of our operations and customers are located in Brazil. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are largely dependent on Brazil’s economy, which has been characterized by frequent and occasionally drastic intervention by the Brazilian government and volatile economic cycles in the past. In the past, the Brazilian government has often changed monetary, fiscal and other policies to influence the course of Brazil’s economy. The Brazilian government may take similar measures in the future, with adverse effects to our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have no control over, and cannot predict, how such intervention and government policies will affect the Brazilian economy and, both directly and indirectly, our operations and revenues. Our operations, financial condition, prospects and the market price of the Class B Shares and ADSs may be adversely affected by changes in policy involving exchange controls, tax and other matters, as well as factors such as: fluctuations in exchange rates; base interest rate fluctuations; inflation; liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; structural and investment deficiencies in the energy sector; changes in tax laws, including charges applicable to specific industry sectors; exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad; and other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. A devaluation of the real would lead to losses on our liabilities denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, a reduction in our profits, an increase in our operational costs, or a decline in the market price of the Class B Shares and ADSs. The exchange rate between the real and the U.S. dollar has fluctuated significantly in recent years. For example, the U.S. dollar/real exchange rate rose from R$2.3204 per U.S. dollar at December 31, 2001 to R$3.5333 per U.S. dollar at December 31, 2002. However, the stability established by the economic policies adopted by the administration of President Lula has restored confidence in the Brazilian market. This has resulted in an appreciation of the real since 2003. As of December 29, 2006, the U.S. dollar/real exchange rate was R$2.1380 per U.S.$1.00, a 9.48% appreciation since December 30, 2005. During the first five months of 2007, the real appreciated by 10.84% to R$1.9289 per U.S. dollar on May 31, 2007. A portion of our financial liabilities is denominated in foreign currencies, primarily U.S. dollars. When the Brazilian currency is devalued, we incur losses due to the increase in our liabilities denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, such as our U.S. dollar-denominated long-term debt, foreign currency loans, and gains on our monetary assets denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies. A devaluation would reduce the U.S. dollar value of distributions and dividends on the ADSs and could materially reduce the market price of the Class B Shares and ADSs. 10 Table of Contents If Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, our margins and the market price of the Class B Shares and ADSs may be reduced. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation. More recently, Brazil’s annual rates of inflation, measured in accordance with the variation of the Índice Geral de Preços — Disponibilidade Interna (“IGP-DI”) index, were 12.1% in 2004, 1.2% in 2005, 3.8% in 2006 and 1.18% for the five months ended May 31, 2007. Inflation, certain governmental measures taken to combat inflation and public speculation about possible future government actions have in the past had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. If Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, our costs may increase, our operating and net margins may decrease and, if investor confidence lags, the price of the Class B Shares and ADSs may fall. Inflationary pressures may also curtail our ability to access foreign financial markets and may lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that may adversely affect the overall performance of the Brazilian economy. The market value of securities issued by Brazilian companies is influenced by the perception of risk in Brazil and other emerging economies, which may have a negative effect on the market price of our Class B Shares and ADSs and may restrict our access to international capital markets. Economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries, especially those in Latin America, may influence the market for securities issued by Brazilian companies. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Brazil, investors’ reactions to developments in these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. In the wake of economic problems in various emerging market countries in recent years (such as the Asian financial crisis of 1997, the Russian financial crisis of 1998 and the Argentine financial crisis that began in 2001), investors viewed investments in emerging markets with heightened caution. These crises produced a significant outflow of U.S. dollars from Brazil, negatively affecting the price of securities issued by Brazilian companies and causing Brazilian companies to face higher costs for raising funds, both domestically and abroad, and impeding access to international capital markets. Crises in other emerging market countries could hamper investor enthusiasm for securities of Brazilian issuers, including ours, which could adversely affect the market price of our Class B Shares and ADSs. Changes in Brazilian tax policies may have an adverse effect on us. The Brazilian government has changed its tax policies in ways that affect the electricity sector, and it may do so again in the future. These changes include amendments to the tax rates and, occasionally, collection of temporary taxes related to specific governmental purposes. Some of such measures may lead to an increase of taxes and we may be unable to adjust our tariffs accordingly, in which case we may be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Operations We are controlled by the State of Paraná, and government policy could have a material adverse effect on us and on our business. We are controlled by the State of Paraná, which holds 58.6% of our outstanding common voting shares as of the date of this Annual Report, and whose interests may differ from yours. The State of Paraná has the power to control all our operations, including the power to: elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors; and 11 Table of Contents determine the outcome of any action requiring common shareholder approval, including transactions with related parties, corporate reorganizations and the timing and payment of any future dividends. We are largely dependent upon the economy of the State of Paraná. Our market for the majority of our sales of electricity is located in the State of Paraná. Although a more competitive market involving possible sales to customers outside Paraná might develop in the future, our business depends and is expected to continue to depend to a very large extent on the economic conditions of Paraná. We cannot assure you that economic conditions in Paraná will be favorable to us in the future. We are involved in several lawsuits that could have a material adverse effect on our business if their outcome is unfavorable to us. We are the defendant in several legal actions, mainly relating to civil, administrative, labor and tax claims. The outcome of these proceedings is uncertain and, if determined against us, may result in obligations that could materially adversely affect our business and the value of the Class B Shares and ADSs. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings”. The development of power generation projects is subject to substantial risks. In connection with the development of a generation project, we generally must obtain feasibility studies, governmental concessions or authorizations, permits and approvals, condemnation agreements, equipment supply agreements, engineering, procurement and construction contracts, sufficient equity and debt financing and site agreements, each of which involves third parties over which we have no control. In addition, project development is subject to environmental, engineering and construction risks that can lead to cost overruns, delays and other impediments to timely complete within a project’s budget. We cannot assure you that all required permits and approvals for our projects will be obtained, that we will be able to secure private sector partners for any of our projects, that we or any of our partners will be able to obtain adequate financing for our projects or that financing will be available on a non-recourse basis to us. If we are unable to complete a project, whether at the initial development phase or after construction has commenced, we may not be able to recover our investment in such a project, which may be substantial. We must comply with rigorous minimum quality standards. According to our concession agreement, we must comply with the minimum quality standards determined by the Brazilian government for the distribution of electric energy, as well as meet minimum standards for the improvement of services. If our performance falls below these standards, we may be subject to penalties and fines. In extreme instances, the Brazilian government may force us to forfeit our concession. 12 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Brazilian Electric Sector The tariffs that we charge for sales of electricity to captive consumers are determined pursuant to a concession agreement with the Brazilian government through ANEEL, and our operating revenues could be adversely affected if ANEEL makes decisions relating to our tariffs that are unfavorable to us. ANEEL has substantial discretion to establish the tariff rates we charge our customers. Our tariffs are determined pursuant to a concession agreement with ANEEL and in accordance with ANEEL’s regulatory decision-making authority. Our concession agreement and Brazilian law establish a price cap mechanism that permits three types of tariff adjustments: (1) annual readjustment (reajuste anual), (2) periodic revision (revisão periódica) and (3) extraordinary revision (revisão extraordinária). We are entitled to apply each year for the annual readjustment, which is designed to offset some effects of inflation on tariffs and pass through to customers certain changes in our cost structure that are beyond our control, such as the cost of electricity we purchase from certain sources and certain other regulatory charges, including charges for the use of transmission facilities. In addition, ANEEL carries out a periodic revision every four years that is aimed at identifying variations in our costs as well as setting a factor based on our operational efficiency that will be applied against the index of our ongoing annual tariff readjustments, the effect of which is to ensure that we share any efficiency gains with our customers. We are also entitled to request an extraordinary revision of our tariffs if unpredictable costs significantly alter our cost structure. We cannot assure you that ANEEL will establish tariffs at rates that are favorable to us. In addition, to the extent that any of these adjustments are not granted by ANEEL in a timely manner, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may face increased competition that could adversely affect our market share and revenues. Within our concession area we do not currently face competition in the distribution of electric energy to residential, commercial and industrial customers of low voltage supply. However, as a result of legislation passed in 1995 and 1998, other suppliers are permitted to offer electricity to certain large electricity customers that meet the regulatory requirements to qualify as Free Customers. Free Customers are those customers with demand equal to or greater than 3MW that are supplied at a voltage level equal to or greater than 69kV or, in the case of customers that have entered the market since July 1995, customers with demand equal to or greater than 3MW that are supplied at any voltage level. Moreover, customers with demand greater than 500 kW that are supplied at any voltage level can choose their supplier if their energy is derived from: small hydroelectric plants, aeolian plants, biomass plants or systems of qualified cogeneration. These Free Customers may be offered electricity at lower prices than those we currently charge. Our distribution business is not able to compete with these suppliers since it has not been allowed to enter into agreements with Free Customers since December 2004, although our generation business has retained the right to compete with such suppliers. The increase in competition from other energy suppliers serving Free Customers located in our concession area, together with the issuance of additional regulations aimed at fostering competition in the energy sector, could adversely affect our market share and revenues. Electricity shortages might affect our operating income. Due to the dependence of the electric energy sector upon natural and seasonal variables such as rainfall and river flows, deterioration in these conditions could severally hamper the generation of electric energy. 13 Table of Contents During 2001, Brazil experienced a severe shortage of capacity to generate electrical energy. The crisis was largely due to a lack of investment in power generation and to drought conditions throughout much of the country, which caused storage levels at hydroelectric plants (which, at the time, accounted for 88.3% of the country’s generating capacity) to fall to less than one-third of their capacity. In order to avoid the possibility of rolling blackouts, the Brazilian government announced measures in June 2001 aimed at the reduction of electricity consumption in the southeastern, central-western and northeastern regions of Brazil by an average of 20.0% . The Brazilian government also announced surcharges for those who did not meet their cutback quotas and incentives for those who did. The State of Paraná, as well as the other southern states in Brazil, were exempted from these measures because the southern region did not experience the drought conditions and the plants in the region were able to maintain their normal operating capacity. The restrictions remained in effect until February 28, 2002. In the future, if the generation capacity in Brazil does not increase to meet the growth in demand, or if there are water shortages, which affect the ability of hydroelectric facilities to operate, the Brazilian government may adopt further measures to reduce energy consumption in the country, including the State of Paraná. These measures, if adopted could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. We are subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation and to major regulatory changes that are still being implemented by the Brazilian government, and we cannot be certain of their effect on our business and results of operations. We are a major Brazilian power company that generates, transports and distributes electricity to customers in the State of Paraná. In recent years, the Brazilian government has implemented policies that have had a far-reaching impact on the Brazilian power industry and, in particular, the electricity industry. Law Nº. 10,848, Lei do Novo Modelo do Setor Elétrico (the “New Industry Model Law”), which regulates the operations of companies in the power industry, was enacted on March 15, 2004. The New Industry Model Law remains subject to the implementation resolutions of ANEEL, and its constitutionality is currently being challenged in the Brazilian Supreme Court. The Brazilian Supreme Court has not yet reached a final decision and, therefore, the New Industry Model Law is currently in force. If all or a relevant portion of the New Industry Model Law is found unconstitutional by the Brazilian Supreme Court, the regulatory scheme introduced by the New Industry Model Law may change, thus generating uncertainty as to how and when the Brazilian government will introduce changes to the electricity industry. The impact on our business of the above-mentioned legal proceedings and possible future reforms in the power industry are difficult to predict, and could all adversely affect our business and results of operation. For more information, see “