D. Risk factors The common shares of the Company must be considered to be a speculative investment due to a number of factors primarily related to the Company’s involvement in the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas, and its present stage of development. There can be no assurance that the Company’s shares will increase or even maintain their value. Prospective purchasers of the Company’s shares should consider the following: Exploration, Development and Production Risks The Company’s future oil and natural gas reserves, and production and cash flows to be derived therefrom, are highly dependent on the Company’s success in exploiting its current reserve base and acquiring or discovering additional reserves. Without the addition of reserves through exploration, acquisition or development activities, the Company’s reserves and production will decline over time as reserves are exploited. A future increase in the Company’s reserves will depend not only on the Company’s ability to develop its present properties, but also on its ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties or prospects. There is no assurance that the Company’s future exploration and development efforts will result in the discovery or development of additional commercial accumulations of oil and natural gas. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to locate satisfactory properties for acquisition or participation. Moreover, if such acquisitions or participations are identified, the Company may determine that current markets, terms of acquisition and participation or pricing conditions make such acquisitions or participations uneconomic. Future oil and gas exploration may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Completion of a well does not assure a profit on the investment, or recovery of drilling, completion and operating costs. Geological conditions are variable and of limited predictability. Even if production is commenced from a well or field, production will inevitably decline over the course of time, reducing the operating profitability of the Company. The amounts attributed to properties in the Company’s financial statements represent acquisition and exploration expenditures only, and may well not reflect realizable value. Development of the Cheal Field The Company is currently undertaking the development of the Cheal Field, as more particularly described below under Item 4 of this Report. This planned development is subject to risks and uncertainties involved in the development of oil and gas production facilities. The occurrence of these risks may adversely impact on the commercial viability of the project as the revenues from the project may be less than anticipated and the capital and operating costs may be greater than anticipated. The risks to revenue include the development wells not producing predicted rates of oil and gas production, decreases in the market prices of oil and gas, and increased storage and transportation costs. Accordingly, investors are cautioned that the development of the Cheal Field may not generate the returns forecasted by the Company. Operating Hazards and Environmental Liabilities Drilling hazards or environmental damage can greatly increase the cost of operations and various field operating conditions may adversely affect the production from successful wells. These conditions include, but are not limited to, delays in obtaining governmental approvals or consents, shut-ins of connected wells resulting from extreme weather conditions, encountering unexpected formations or pressures, premature declines of reservoirs, blow-outs, cratering, sour gas releases, fires and spills, premature decline of reservoirs, the invasion of water into producing formations, insufficient storage or transportation capacity or other geological and mechanical conditions. While close well supervision and effective maintenance operations can contribute to maximizing production rates and recoveries over time, production delays and declines from normal field operating conditions cannot be eliminated and can be expected to adversely affect the long term continuity of revenue and cash flow levels to varying degrees. Although the Company is pro-active in its approach to environmental concerns, and procedures are in place to ensure care is taken in the day-to-day management of the Company’s oil and gas properties, all phases of the - 9 - oil and natural gas business present environmental risks and hazards and are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of local and international conventions, laws and regulations. Environmental legislation provides for, among other things, restrictions or prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with oil and natural gas operations. Exploration legislation also requires that wells and facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures and a breach may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which may be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner expected to result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. No assurance can be given that environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or a material increase in the costs of production, development or exploration activities or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Management is not aware of any present material liability related to environmental matters. However, the Company may, in the future, be subject to liability for environmental offences of which it is presently unaware. Oil and Natural Gas Markets The operations and earnings of the Company and its subsidiaries are also affected by local, regional and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for oil and natural gas. These events or conditions are generally not predictable and include, among other things, the development of new supply sources, supply disruptions, weather, international political events, technological advances, restricted access to infrastructure (pipelines, storage, shipping or load-out facilities, etc) and the competitiveness of alternative energy sources or product substitutes. Both oil and natural gas prices are subject to fluctuation. The economics of producing from some wells may change as a result of lower prices, which could result in a reduction in the volumes produced by the Company. Any material decline in prices could result in a reduction of the Company’s net production revenue. Management might also elect not to produce from certain wells at lower prices. All of these factors could result in a material decrease in the Company’s net production revenue causing a reduction in its oil and gas acquisition and development activities. Management has established a policy to partially hedge the effect of fluctuating oil and natural gas prices, in order to fix the price that the Company will receive on a portion of its production for a specified period of time. Competition The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. The Company’s competitors for the acquisition, exploration, production and development of oil and natural gas properties, and for capital to finance such activities, include companies that have greater financial and personnel resources available to them than the Company. The Company actively competes for prospect acquisitions, exploration permits and licences, and skilled industry personnel with a substantial number of other oil and gas companies, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than the Company. The Company’s competitors include major integrated oil and natural gas companies and numerous other independent oil and natural gas companies and individual producers and operators. Certain of the Company’s customers and potential customers are themselves exploring for oil and natural gas, and the results of such exploration efforts could affect the Company’s ability to sell or supply oil or gas to these customers in the future. The Company’s ability to successfully bid on and acquire additional property rights, to discover reserves, to participate in drilling opportunities and to identify and enter into commercial arrangements with customers will be dependent upon developing and maintaining close working relationships with industry participants and joint venture parties and its ability to select and evaluate suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Funding Requirements Oil exploration involves a high degree of technical and commercial risk and is characterized by a continuous need for fresh capital. Management seeks to minimise and spread this risk by joint-venturing oil exploration projects with other companies and participating in properties exhibiting a range of risk profiles to reduce its - 10 - cost exposure to any one project. The development of any reserves found on the Company’s exploration properties may depend upon the Company’s ability to obtain further financing through joint venturing of projects, debt financing or equity financing. There is no assurance that market conditions will continue to permit the Company to raise funds if required, or that the Company will be able to enter into agreements with third parties to fund permit obligations or be able to renegotiate such obligations. The Company faces competition from other oil companies for oil and gas properties and investor dollars. If the Company’s cash flow from operations is not sufficient to satisfy its capital expenditure requirements and existing debt obligations, there can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available to meet these requirements. If the Company is unable to fund its permit obligations by share issues or farm-out agreements or to renegotiate such obligations, the Company may be unable to carry out its plan of operations and may be forced to abandon or forfeit some of its permit interests, or reduce or terminate its operations. Insurance The Company’s involvement in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties may result in the Company becoming subject to liability for pollution, blow outs, property damage, personal injury or other hazards. Although the Company has obtained insurance in accordance with industry standards to address such risks, such insurance has limitations on liability that may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of such liabilities. In addition, such risks may not be insurable in all circumstances, or management may elect, in certain circumstances, not to obtain insurance to deal with specific risks due to the high premiums associated with such insurance or other reasons. The payment of such uninsured liabilities would reduce the funds available to the Company. The occurrence of a significant event that the Company is not fully insured against, or the insolvency of the insurer of such event, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or prospects. Uncertainty of Reserves Figures Estimates of production expenditures, revenues and reserves will likely vary from actual, and these variances may be material. Estimates of oil and gas reserves are interpreted from geological, petrophysical and reservoir engineering data. Such interpretations are inherently uncertain, as are the projections of future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The accuracy of the reserves estimates is a function of the quality of available data, engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Factors such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, assumed effects of governmental regulations, assumptions of future oil and gas prices, future operating costs, development costs and remedial and work-over costs, will affect the estimates of economically recoverable quantities and of future net cash flow. Any significant variance in the assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of reserves. No Assurance of Earnings The Company currently has one oil and gas property nearing the production stage. The Company has an accumulated deficit from its historical operating results and there is no assurance that the business of the Company will be profitable in the future. Management cannot guarantee that the Company will continue generating revenues in the future. A failure to generate revenues may cause the Company to eventually go out of business. The Company has not paid dividends at any time in its history to date and there is no assurance that the Company will pay a dividend at any time in the future. Reliance on Operators and Key Employees To the extent that the Company is not the operator of its oil and gas properties, the Company depends on third party operators for the timing of activities related to such properties and may be largely unable to direct or control the activities of the operators, except through joint venture participation and voting. In addition, the success of the Company largely depends upon the performance of its key employees and on the advice and project management skills of various consulting geologists, geophysicists and engineers retained by the Company from time to time. Although there are other personnel available in the sector who could replace Company explorationists, there is likely to be some difficulty in finding immediate replacements of suitable calibre. - 11 - Risks Relating to Papua New Guinea Some of the Company’s oil and gas interests are located in Papua New Guinea, which may be considered to be a developing country and hence has a higher risk than New Zealand of becoming politically and/or economically unstable or which could become politically and economically unstable in the future. Such instability is outside the Company’s control. Exploration and development activities in politically or economically unstable countries may require protracted negotiations with host governments, national oil companies and third parties and are frequently subject to economic and political considerations, such as taxation, nationalisation, expropriation, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation and approval requirements, governmental regulation and the risk of actions by lawless factions, any of which could adversely affect the economics of exploration or development projects. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political condition are beyond the control of the Company and may adversely affect its business. Infrastructure development in Papua New Guinea is limited. In addition, the Company’s properties are located in remote areas, which may prove difficult to access. These factors may affect the Company’s ability to explore and develop its properties and to store and transport its oil and gas production. Currency Fluctuations and Foreign Exchange The practice of the Company is to raise its equity in United States dollars. However when the Company listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange, equity was also raised in New Zealand dollars. The Company holds cash denominated in both United States and New Zealand currency. The Company’s current property acquisition and exploration commitments are denominated in United States and New Zealand dollars and, to a much lesser extent, in currencies of other countries. Papua New Guinea, in which the Company operates, may impose foreign exchange restrictions that may materially affect the Company’s financial position and results of operations in that country. The Company has established a policy to hedge its exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk. See also Item 5.A.3 – Foreign Currency Fluctuations. Regulatory Requirements The current and future operations of the Company, including development activities and commencement of production on its properties, require permits from various foreign and local governmental authorities, and are governed by laws and regulations relating to oil and gas exploration and development, prices, royalties, allowable production, import and export of hydrocarbons, restrictions on the withdrawal of capital from a country in which the Company is operating, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection and other matters. The Company’s operations require licences, permits and renewals of these from various governmental authorities. Management believes that the Company currently holds or has applied for all necessary licences and permits to carry on the activities which it is currently conducting under applicable laws and regulations in respect of its properties, except as referred in under “Title Matters”. The Company also believes that it is complying in all material respects with the terms of such licences and permits. However, the Company’s ability to obtain, sustain or renew such licences and permits on acceptable terms is subject to changes in regulations and policies and the discretion of the applicable governments. Failure to comply with all applicable laws, regulations and licence and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions, including orders to cease or curtail operations, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in oil and gas operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of such activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations, licences and permits governing operations and activities of oil and gas companies, or more stringent implementation of these, could have a material adverse impact on the Company and could cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new properties. Management believes that the Company’s operations comply with all applicable legislation and regulations and - 12 - that the existence of such legislation and regulations have no more restrictive effect on the Company’s method of operations than on similar companies in the industry. Labour Requirements The Company may be required to hire and train local workers in its petroleum and natural gas operations. Some of these workers may be organised into labour unions. Any strike activity or labour unrest could adversely affect the Company’s ongoing operations and its ability to explore for, produce and market its oil and gas production. Title Matters Management has investigated the rights to explore the various oil and gas properties the Company holds or proposes to acquire or participate in and, to the best of its knowledge, those rights are in good standing, except PRL 4, over which the Department of Petroleum and Energy in Papua New Guinea has issued a “Notice to Show Cause” which potentially could result in the cancellation of that licence. However, the Company believes that all work required to maintain the licence has been done and an application for extension has been lodged. However, no assurance can be given that this application will be granted and the Company’s entitlement to PRL 4 extended. Further, no assurance can be given that applicable governments will not revoke, or significantly alter the conditions of, any other exploration and development authorisation or that such exploration and development authorisation will not be challenged. In all cases, the terms and conditions of the permit or licence granting the right to the Company to explore for, and develop, hydrocarbons, prescribe a work programme and the date or dates by which such work programme must be done. Varying circumstances, including the financial resources available to the Company, the inability to secure equipment when required, and reliance on third party operators in respect of its permits and licences, may result in the failure to satisfy the terms and conditions of a permit or licence and result in the complete loss of the interest in the permit or licence without compensation to the Company. Such terms and conditions may be renegotiated with applicable regulatory authorities, but there is no assurance that the applicable authority will agree to the renegotiation offer. The Company does not have sole control over the future course of development in most of its properties. Such property interests are subject to joint venture and other similar agreements which can give rise to interpretive disputes with other parties who are financially interested in the property. The Company participates in its permits or licences with other industry participants, some of whom have access to greater or lesser resources from which to meet their joint venture capital commitments. If the Company is unable to meet its commitments, the other joint venture participants may assume some or all of the Company’s deficiency and thereby assume a pro-rata portion of the Company’s interest in any production from the joint venture area. If another participant in a joint venture, which participant has fewer resources than the Company, is unable to meet its commitments, it may delay or veto exploration or development plans which it cannot afford, or default on its commitments. This may delay the Company’s desired exploration or development programme and/or lead to the Company and other participants assuming all or some of that entity’s interest, and therefore meeting a pro-rata share of its required contributions (as well as receiving a pro-rata share of any production). General claims by native peoples in New Zealand and Papua New Guinea may adversely affect the rights or operations of the Company, although the Company has not received any notice of any direct challenge to any of the Company’s titles or tenures. Non-US Assets and Management The Company is incorporated under the laws of British Columbia, Canada, and the majority of the Company’s directors and officers are residents of countries other than the United States. Substantially all of the assets of the Company are located outside North America. Consequently, it may be difficult for United States investors to enforce in the United States judgments of United States courts against assets of the Company. Furthermore, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments of the U.S. courts based on civil liability against the Company’s non-U.S. resident officers or directors. - 13 - Public Market Risks The Company’s shares are relatively illiquid in that they do not trade large volumes relative to other public companies. There can be no assurance that a stable market for the Company’s common shares will be maintained. If the Company fails to remain current in its filings with the SEC, Canadian and New Zealand regulatory authorities, the Company may lose any one or more of its AMEX, Canadian and New Zealand listings, which would adversely affect the liquidity of an investment in the Company. Dilution, Change of Control The Company’s Articles authorise the issuance of an unlimited number of shares of common and preferred stock. The Company’s Board of Directors has the legal power to issue any number of further shares without stockholder approval (although the policies of the TSX-V and AMEX require shareholders’ approvals in certain events). The Company’s Board of Directors may issue some of such shares to acquire further capital in order to carry out its intended operations or expand its current operations, or to provide additional financing in the future. The issuance of any such shares may result in a reduction of the book value or market price of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common shares. If the Company does issue any such additional shares, such issuance will also cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all existing shareholders. Further, any such issuance may result in a change of control of the Company. TSX-V policies require the Company to obtain shareholder approval of any transaction which will result in the creation of a new control person (as defined). Conflicts of Interest Interests in some petroleum properties have been acquired in conjunction with, or interests sold to TAG Oil Ltd. with which the Company had a common director until end January 2006 and has certain common principal shareholders. In addition, the Company owns shares in Rift Oil plc (approximately 0.37% of issued share capital) to whom it has transferred an interest in a Papua New Guinea exploration licence under a farm-out arrangement. The Chief Executive Officer of Rift Oil plc is the spouse of the Company’s former Chief Executive Officer, Dave Bennett, who is now a director of TAG and of Rift. The Company’s chairman, Mr. Newman, serves as a director and Chairman of Infratil Limited, the parent company of Infratil Gas Limited, a greater than 10% shareholder of the Company. He is not employed by Infratil or the Company, is remunerated only in his capacity as a director of each company, and serves as chairman in a part-time capacity of both companies. The Board has determined that he does not have any “material relationship with the Company which might interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement”. He does not take part in discussions nor vote in relation to matters involving Infratil’s equity participation in the Company. Certain of the directors of the Company are or were directors and/or officers of other corporations engaged in the petroleum exploration and development or related industries. It is possible that conflicts of interest may arise between their duties as director and/or officer of the other companies, and as director or officer of the Company. The percentage participation of the Company and any other company in a property is determined by the Board of Directors of each such company independently, using the best business judgment of the Board. Under the Company’s Articles and the relevant legislation, any such conflict of interest is required to be disclosed and any contract in which a director or officer has a material interest must be referred to the Board of Directors for approval, and the interested director will not vote on any resolution giving such approval. The Company requires confidentiality obligations from all officers, employees and consultants. Classification as a Passive Foreign Investment Company Management believes the Company is a Passive Foreign Investment Company (“PFIC”), as that term is defined in Section 1297 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and believes it will be a PFIC for, at least, the following fiscal year. Consequently, this classification may result in adverse tax consequences for U.S. holders of the Company’s shares. For an explanation of these effects on taxation, see Item 10.E - Taxation. U.S. shareholders and prospective holders of the Company’s shares are also encouraged to consult their own tax advisers. - 14 - 