Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business and industry face a variety of risks, including operational, legal, regulatory and product risks. The following are some of the more significant factors that could affect our business and our results of operations. Other factors may exist that we cannot anticipate or that we do not consider significant based on currently available information. Food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. We consider food safety a top priority and dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe, quality food products. However, food-borne illnesses (such as E. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and food safety issues have occurred in the past (see Note 22, Guarantees, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for a discussion of litigation arising from an E. coli outbreak allegedly linked to a number of Taco Bell restaurants in the Northeast U.S. during November/December 2006), and could occur in the future. If such instances of food-borne illness or other food safety issues were to occur, whether at our restaurants or those of our competitors, negative publicity could result which could adversely affect sales and profitability. If our customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could also be forced to temporarily close some restaurants. Additionally, the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients. Finally, like other companies in the restaurant industry, some of our products may contain genetically engineered food products, and our U.S. suppliers are currently not required to label their products as such. Increased regulation of and opposition to genetically engineered food products have on occasion and may in the future force us to use alternative sources at increased costs. Our China operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. A significant and growing portion of our restaurants are located in China. As a result, our financial results are increasingly dependent on our results in China, and our business is increasingly exposed to risks there. These risks include changes in economic conditions (including inflation, consumer spending and unemployment levels), tax rates and laws and consumer preferences, as well as changes in the regulatory environment. In addition, our results of operations in China and the value of our Chinese assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may favorably or adversely affect reported earnings. There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. In addition, any significant or prolonged deterioration in U.S.-China relations could adversely affect our China business. Many of the risks and uncertainties of doing business in China are solely within the control of the Chinese government. China’s government regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within China. Although management believes it has structured our China operations to comply with local laws, there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in China. If we were unable to enforce our intellectual property and contract rights in China, our business would be adversely impacted. Our other foreign operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. A significant portion of our restaurants are operated in foreign countries and territories outside of the U.S. and China, and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. As a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks, which can vary substantially by market, include political instability, social and ethnic unrest, changes in economic conditions (including inflation, consumer spending and unemployment levels), the regulatory environment, tax rates and laws and consumer preferences as well as changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated. In addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may favorably or adversely affect reported earnings. There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 9 Changes in commodity and other operating costs or supply chain and business disruptions could adversely affect our results of operations. While we take measures to anticipate and react to changes in food, energy and supply costs, any increase in certain commodity prices could adversely affect our operating results. Because we provide moderately priced food, our ability to pass along commodity price increases to our customers may be limited. Additionally, significant increases in gasoline prices could result in a decrease of customer traffic at our restaurants or the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors, each of which could adversely affect our business. We rely on third party distribution companies to deliver food and supplies to our stores. Interruption of distribution services due to financial distress or other issues could impact our operations. Our operating expenses also include employee benefits and insurance costs (including workers’ compensation, general liability, property and health) which may increase over time. Finally, our industry is susceptible to natural disasters which could result in restaurant closures and supply chain and business disruptions. Health concerns arising from outbreaks of Avian Flu may have an adverse effect on our business. Asian and European countries have experienced outbreaks of Avian Flu, and some commentators have hypothesized that further outbreaks could occur and reach pandemic levels. While fully-cooked chicken has been determined to be safe for consumption, and while we have taken and continue to take measures to anticipate and minimize the effect of these outbreaks on our business, future outbreaks could adversely affect the price and availability of poultry and cause customers to shift their preferences. In addition, outbreaks on a widespread basis could also affect our ability to attract and retain employees. Our operating results are closely tied to the success of our Concepts’ franchisees. As a result of our franchising programs, our operating results are dependent upon the sales volumes and viability of our franchisees. Any significant inability of our franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results. We have limited control over our franchisees and the quality of franchise restaurant operations may be impacted by factors that are not in our control. Franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the restaurants contemplated by their franchise agreements with us, or be able to find suitable sites on which to develop them. In addition, franchisees may not be able to negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the sites, obtain the necessary permits and government approvals or meet construction schedules. Our franchisees generally depend upon financing from banks and other financial institutions in order to construct and open new restaurants. In some instances, financing has been difficult to obtain for some operators. Any of these problems could slow our planned growth. Our results and financial condition could be affected by the success of our refranchising program. We are in the process of a refranchising program, which could reduce the percentage of company ownership in the U.S., excluding licensees, from approximately 22% at the end of 2007 to potentially less than 10% by the end of 2010. Our ability to execute this plan will depend on, among other things, whether we can find viable and appropriate buyers for our restaurants, how quickly we can agree to terms with potential buyers and the availability of financing to potential buyers. The success of the refranchising program once executed will depend on, among other things, our selection of buyers who can effectively operate our restaurants, our ability to limit our exposure to contingent liabilities in connection with the sale of our restaurants, and whether the resulting ownership mix of Company-operated and franchisee-operated restaurants allows us to meet our financial objectives. In addition, refranchising activity could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and that volatility could impact our reported earnings. We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses or subjecting us to material money damages and other remedies. Like others in the restaurant industry, we are susceptible to claims filed by customers alleging that we are responsible for an illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants. Regardless of whether any claims against us are 10 valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. A judgment for significant monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results. In addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of some customers. We may also be subject to this type of claim in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results. Changes in governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations. We and our franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local regulations. Each of our restaurants is subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, food and workplace safety and other agencies. Requirements of local authorities with respect to zoning, land use, licensing, permitting and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations. In addition, we face risks arising from compliance with and enforcement of increasingly complex federal and state immigration laws and regulations. We are subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. The expenses associated with any facilities modifications required by these laws could be material. Our operations are also subject to the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters. The compliance costs associated with these laws and evolving regulations could be substantial. We also face risks from new or changing laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety and menu labeling regulation. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. In addition, we are subject to laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments and consumer credit, protection and fraud, and any failure or perceived failure to comply with those laws could harm our reputation or lead to litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition. We may not attain our target development goals. We are pursuing a disciplined growth strategy, which, to be successful, will depend in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to upgrade existing restaurants and open new restaurants, and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis. We cannot guarantee that we, or our franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new, upgraded or converted restaurants will be operated profitably. Further, there is no assurance that any restaurant we open or convert will obtain operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. The success of our planned expansion will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability to increase our net restaurant count in our international markets. Risks which could impact our ability to increase our net restaurant count include prevailing economic conditions and our, or our franchisees’, ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, obtain required permits and approvals and hire and train qualified personnel. The retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive. The retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, price, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. If consumer preferences change, or our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely 11 affected. In the retail food industry, labor is a primary operating cost component. Competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. In addition, our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Adverse changes in these factors could reduce guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could harm our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2007 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. Item 