Item 1A. Risk Factors Below are some risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those presented in our forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management’s current expectations, beliefs and assumptions and are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could lead to actual results materially different from those described in our forward-looking statements. We can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained. Factors that could adversely affect our operations and prospects or which could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, but are not limited to the following risks. General Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate Economic and regulatory changes that impact the real estate market generally may cause our operating results to suffer and decrease the value of our real estate properties. Our operating results will be subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real estate, including: • changes in general or local economic conditions; • changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area; 5 Index to Financial Statements • changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds, which may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive; • changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws; and • periods of high interest rates and tight money supply. These and other reasons may prevent us from being profitable or from realizing growth or maintaining the value of our real estate properties. Properties that have significant vacancies could be difficult to sell, which could diminish our return on those properties. A property may incur vacancies either by the continued default of tenants under their leases or the expiration of tenant leases. If vacancies continue for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash available to distribute to stockholders. In addition, because properties’ market values depend principally upon the value of the properties’ leases, the resale value of properties with high or prolonged vacancies could suffer, which could further reduce the return to our stockholders. We depend on tenants for our revenue, and accordingly, lease terminations and/or tenant defaults could reduce our net income and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The success of our investments materially depends on the financial stability of our tenants. A default or termination by a significant tenant on its lease payments to us would cause us to lose the revenue associated with such lease and require us to find an alternative source of revenue to meet mortgage payments and prevent a foreclosure if the property is subject to a mortgage. In the event of a tenant default or bankruptcy, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-letting our property. If significant leases are terminated or defaulted upon, we may be unable to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. These events could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to stockholders. We rely on certain tenants. As of December 31, 2006, our most substantial tenants based on annualized gross base rents were BP Amoco (approximately 6%), Leo Burnett (approximately 5%), and NASA (approximately 4%). The revenues generated by the properties these tenants occupy are substantially reliant upon the financial condition of these tenants and, accordingly, any event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or a general downturn in the business of any of these tenants may result in the failure or delay of such tenant’s rental payments, which may have a substantial adverse effect on our financial performance. Our inability to sell a property at the time we plan could limit our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders. General economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates, and other factors, including supply and demand, all of which are beyond our control, affect the real estate market. We may be unable to sell a property for the price, on the terms, or within the time frame we would like. That inability could reduce our cash flow and cause our results of operations to suffer, limiting our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Increases in property operating expenses may adversely affect your returns. In the event that we experience significant increases in property operating expenses, including property taxes, insurance, and other costs at our properties, that are not reimbursable by our tenants, our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders may be reduced. 6 Index to Financial Statements We may not have funding for future leasing costs. When a tenant at one of our properties does not renew its lease or otherwise vacates its space in one of our buildings, it is likely that in order to attract one or more new tenants, we will be required to expend substantial funds for tenant improvements, leasing commissions, and tenant refurbishments to the vacated space. Substantially all of our net offering proceeds have been invested in real estate properties, and we do not maintain permanent working capital reserves. We also have no identified funding source (other than our existing lines of credit) to provide funds which may be required in the future for tenant improvements, leasing commissions, and tenant refurbishments in order to attract new tenants. We cannot assure you that we will have proceeds from the sale of our dividend reinvestment plan shares or any sources of funding available to us for such purposes in the future. Uncertain market conditions and our advisors’ broad discretion relating to the future disposition of properties could adversely affect the return on your investment. We will generally hold our real properties until such time as our advisors determine that a sale or other disposition appears to be advantageous to achieve our investment objectives or until it appears that such objectives will not be met. Otherwise, our advisors, subject to the approval of our board of directors, may exercise their discretion as to whether and when to sell a property, and we will have no obligation to sell properties at any particular time, except upon a potential liquidation of the Wells REIT if we do not list our shares by January 30, 2008, unless such date is extended by an amendment to our articles of incorporation which would require a vote of our stockholders. We cannot predict with any certainty the various market conditions affecting real estate investments that will exist at any particular time in the future. Due to the uncertainty of market conditions that may affect the future disposition of our properties, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sell our properties at a profit in the future. Accordingly, the extent to which you will receive cash distributions and realize potential appreciation on our real estate investments will be dependent upon fluctuating market conditions. Uninsured losses relating to real property or excessively expensive premiums for insurance coverage could reduce our net income. We are subject to certain types of losses, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution, or environmental matters, that are uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Insurance risks associated with potential terrorism acts could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. Additionally, mortgage lenders in some cases have begun to insist that commercial property owners purchase coverage against terrorism as a condition of providing mortgage loans. Such insurance policies may not be available at a reasonable cost, if at all, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our properties. In such instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We may not have adequate coverage for such losses. If any of our properties incur a casualty loss that is not fully insured, the value of that asset will be reduced by such uninsured loss. In addition, other than any working capital reserve or other reserves we may establish, we have no source of funding (other than our existing lines of credit) to repair or reconstruct any uninsured damaged property. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for insurance, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in lower distributions to our stockholders. Our operating results may suffer because of potential development and construction delays and resultant increased costs and risks. We may acquire and develop properties, including unimproved real properties, upon which we will construct improvements. We will be subject to uncertainties associated with re-zoning for development, environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups, and our builders’ ability to build in conformity with plans, specifications, budgeted costs, and timetables. If a builder fails to perform, we may resort to legal action to 7 Index to Financial Statements rescind the purchase or the construction contract or to compel performance. A builder’s performance may also be affected or delayed by conditions beyond the builder’s control. Delays in completing construction could also give tenants the right to terminate preconstruction leases. We may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to builders before they complete construction. These and other factors can result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment. In addition, we will be subject to normal lease-up risks relating to newly constructed projects. We also must rely on rental income and expense projections and estimates of the fair market value of property upon completion of construction when agreeing upon a purchase price at the time we acquire the property. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a property, and our return on our investment could suffer. Actions of our joint venture partners could reduce the returns on our joint venture investments. We have entered into joint ventures with third parties to acquire, develop, or improve properties and will likely acquire additional properties through joint venture arrangements. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other methods of investment in real estate, including, for example: • the possibility that our co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt; • that such co-venturer may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or that become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; or • that such co-venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Any of the above might subject a property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and thus reduce the returns to our investors. Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations may reduce our net income and the cash available for distributions to our stockholders. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on tenants, owners, or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may hinder our ability to sell, rent, or pledge such property as collateral for future borrowings. Compliance with new laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require us to incur material expenditures. Future laws, ordinances, or regulations may impose material environmental liability. Additionally, our tenants’ operations, the existing condition of land when we buy it, operations in the vicinity of our properties such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties may affect our properties. In addition, there are various local, state, and federal fire, health, life-safety, and similar regulations with which we may be required to comply, and which may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. Any material expenditures, fines, or damages we must pay will reduce our cash flow and ability to make distributions. Discovery of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions may decrease our revenues and limit our ability to make distributions. Under various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations, a current or previous real property owner or operator may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in such property. These costs could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses 8 Index to Financial Statements may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures or prevent us from entering into leases with prospective tenants that may be impacted by such laws. Environmental laws provide for sanctions for noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including asbestos-containing materials. Third parties may seek recovery from real property owners or operators for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of complying with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could reduce the amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. If we sell properties and provide financing to purchasers, defaults by the purchasers may decrease our cash flows and limit our ability to make distributions. In some instances, we may sell our properties by providing financing to purchasers. When we provide financing to purchasers, we will bear the risk that the purchaser may default, which could negatively impact our cash dividends to stockholders. Even in the absence of a purchaser default, the distribution of the proceeds of sales to our stockholders, or the reinvestment of proceeds in other assets, will be delayed until the promissory notes or other property we may accept upon a sale are actually paid, sold, refinanced, or otherwise disposed of. Risks Related to Ownership of Shares of Our Common Stock There is no public trading market for our common stock; therefore, it will be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares. There is no current public market for our common stock as our common stock is not currently listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. Stockholders may not sell their shares unless the purchaser meets the applicable suitability and minimum purchase requirements. Our charter also prohibits the ownership of more than 9.8% of our stock, unless exempted by our board of directors, which may inhibit large investors from desiring to purchase our shares. Moreover, our share redemption program includes numerous restrictions that limit a stockholder’s ability to sell his or her shares to us, and our board of directors may amend, suspend or terminate our share redemption program at any time upon 30 days’ notice. Therefore, it will be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares promptly or at all. If a stockholder is able to sell his or her shares, it would likely be at a substantial discount to the price he or she originally paid for such shares. It is also likely that our shares would not be accepted as the primary collateral for a loan. Our shares of common stock should only be viewed as a long-term investment due to the illiquid nature of our shares. Our charter limits the number of shares a person may own, which may discourage a takeover that could otherwise result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% of our outstanding common stock. This restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might otherwise provide a premium price for holders of our common stock. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue stock with terms that may subordinate the rights of our common stockholders which may discourage a third party from acquiring us in a manner that could result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued common stock or preferred stock and establish the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption of any such stock. Thus, our board of directors 9 Index to Financial Statements could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have priority as to distributions and amounts payable upon liquidation over the rights of the holders of our common stock. Such preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might otherwise provide a premium price to holders of our common stock. If we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”), the return to our stockholders would be reduced; if we become an unregistered investment company, we could not continue our business. We do not intend to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, as amended. If we were obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act that impose, among other things: • limitations on capital structure; • restrictions on specified investments; • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and • compliance with reporting, recordkeeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses. In order to maintain our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act, we must engage primarily in the business of buying real estate. To maintain compliance with the Investment Company Act exemption, we may need to sell assets we would otherwise wish to retain. In addition, we may have to acquire additional income- or loss-generating assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or may have to forego opportunities to acquire interests in companies that we would otherwise want to acquire and would be important to our investment strategy. If we were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, we would be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. In addition, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. Our stockholders have limited control over changes in our policies and operations, which increases the uncertainty and risks they face. Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding financing, growth, debt capitalization, and the level of distributions to our stockholders. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of our stockholders. Under Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter, our stockholders have a right to vote only on limited matters. Our board’s broad discretion in setting policies and our stockholders’ inability to exert control over those policies increases the uncertainty and risks our stockholders face. Our stockholders are limited in their ability to sell their shares pursuant to our share redemption program. Even though our share redemption program currently provides stockholders with the opportunity to have their shares redeemed after they have held them for a period of one year for a purchase price equal to the lesser of (1) $10 per share, or (2) the purchase price per share that they actually paid for their shares of Wells REIT, less in both instances any amounts previously distributed to them attributable to net sales proceeds from the sale of Wells REIT’s properties, stockholders should be fully aware that our share redemption program contains certain restrictions and limitations. Subject to funds being available, we currently limit the number of shares redeemed pursuant to our share redemption program as follows: (1) during any calendar year, we will not redeem in excess of 5.0% of the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the prior calendar year; and (2) in no event shall the aggregate amount of redemptions under our share redemption program exceed aggregate proceeds 10 Index to Financial Statements received from the sale of shares pursuant to our dividend reinvestment plan. In addition, the board of directors may set aside and reserve an amount determined annually by the board not to exceed 20% of the funds available for redemption during each calendar year for (1) redemptions upon the death of a stockholder (“redemptions upon death”), and (2) redemptions for certain stockholders to satisfy required minimum distribution requirements as set forth under Sections 401(a)(9), 403(b)(10), 408(a)(6), 408(b)(3), and 408(A)(c)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code (“required minimum distribution redemptions”), which will have the effect of reducing the amount of funds otherwise available for other redemption requests. In addition, our board of directors recently amended the terms of our share redemption program to allow for an immediate temporary suspension of the program in the event that the board concludes in good faith that we are in possession of undisclosed material information that should be publicly disclosed before shares are redeemed. For all other amendments or suspensions of our share redemption program, the requirement to provide 30 days’ notice remains in effect. Effective January 29, 2007, our board of directors temporarily suspended redemptions under the share redemption program until the end of March 2007 to allow stockholders to evaluate the newly proposed merger with our Advisor (see Note 15 of our accompanying consolidated financial statements). Therefore, our stockholders should not assume that they will be able to sell all or any portion of their shares back to us pursuant to our share redemption program. We are uncertain of our sources for funding of future capital needs. Substantially all of the gross proceeds raised in our previous public offerings have been used for investment in properties and for payment of various fees and expenses, and proceeds raised pursuant to our dividend reinvestment plan may be used for additional acquisitions or to fund share redemptions pursuant to our share redemption program. In addition, we currently do not maintain any permanent working capital reserves. Accordingly, in the event that we develop a need for additional capital in the future for the improvement of our properties or for any other reason, we have not secured any additional sources for such funding outside of our existing lines of credit, and we cannot assure you that such sources of additional funding will be available to us for potential capital needs in the future. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to recover claims against our independent directors are limited, which could reduce our recovery and our stockholders’ recovery against them if they negligently cause us to incur losses. Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in that capacity if he performs his duties in good faith in a manner he reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our charter provides that no independent director shall be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages and that we will generally indemnify them for losses unless they are grossly negligent or engage in willful misconduct. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our independent directors than might otherwise exist under common law, which could reduce our and our stockholders’ recovery from these persons if they act in a negligent manner. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our independent directors (as well as by our other directors, officers, employees and agents) in some cases. If the fiduciary of an employee pension benefit plan subject to Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) (such as a profit sharing, Section 401(k) or pension plan) or any other retirement plan or account fails to meet the fiduciary and other standards under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code as a result of an investment in our stock, the fiduciary could be subject to civil and criminal penalties. There are special considerations that apply to a pension or profit-sharing trust or Individual Retirement Account (“IRA”) investing in our shares. Fiduciaries investing the assets of a pension, profit sharing, section 401(k), or other qualified retirement plan, or the assets of an IRA, in our common stock should satisfy themselves that: • the investment is consistent with their fiduciary obligations under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code; • the investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing the plan or IRA, including the plan’s investment policy; 11 Index to Financial Statements • the investment satisfies the prudence and diversification requirements of Sections 404(a)(1)(B) and 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA and other applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code; • the investment will not impair the liquidity of the plan or IRA; • the investment will not produce “unrelated business taxable income” for the plan or IRA; • they will be able to value the assets of the plan annually in accordance with ERISA requirements and applicable provisions of the plan or IRA; and • the investment will not constitute a prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code. Failure to satisfy the fiduciary standards of conduct and other applicable requirements of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code may result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, and can subject the fiduciary to equitable remedies. In addition, if an investment in our shares constitutes a prohibited transaction under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code, the fiduciary who authorized or directed the investment may be subject to the imposition of excise taxes with respect to the amount invested. Federal Income Tax Risks Failure to qualify as a REIT would reduce our net income and cash available for distributions. Our qualification as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet requirements regarding our organization and ownership, distributions of our income, the nature and diversification of our income and assets, and other tests imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates and/or penalties, which would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. Distributions to stockholders would no longer qualify for the dividends-paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. In addition, there are additional tax risks that arise by reason of the Internalization transaction which are described herein below at “Risks Related to Internalization Transaction.” Recharacterization of sale-leaseback transactions may cause us to lose our REIT status, which would reduce the return to our stockholders. We may purchase properties and lease them back to the sellers of such properties. While we will use our best efforts to structure any such sale-leaseback transaction such that the lease will be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for federal income tax purposes, we can give no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge such characterization. In the event that any such sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and recharacterized as a financing transaction or loan for federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such property would be disallowed. If a sale-leaseback transaction was so recharacterized, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated which might cause us to fail to meet our distribution requirement described below for such year. If this were to occur, we might also fail to satisfy the tests for REIT qualification regarding the nature of our assets or types of income we derive from investments, and our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders could be limited. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income or property. For example: • In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders (which is determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction or net capital 12 Index to Financial Statements gain). To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on the undistributed income. • We will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions we pay in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. • If we have net income from the sale of foreclosure property that we hold primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, we must pay a tax on that income at the highest corporate income tax rate. • In certain circumstances, if we acquire a property for investment purposes and subsequently sell that property, our gain would be subject to the 100% tax on “prohibited transactions.” To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions to make distributions to our stockholders, which could increase our operating costs and decrease the value of an investment in us. To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders each year 90% of our REIT taxable income (which is determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction or net capital gain). At times, we may not have sufficient funds to satisfy these distribution requirements and may need to borrow funds to maintain our REIT status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes. These borrowing needs could result from (i) differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes; (ii) the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures; (iii) the creation of reserves; or (iv) required debt or amortization payments. We may need to borrow funds at times when market conditions are unfavorable. Such borrowings could increase our costs and reduce the value of our common stock. Further, borrowing to pay distributions to our stockholders may increase the likelihood that distributions exceed taxable income, which would reduce a stockholder’s basis in our stock and, to the extent distributions exceed a stockholder’s basis, the stockholder may recognize capital gain. To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to forego otherwise attractive opportunities, which could delay or hinder our ability to meet our investment objectives and lower the return to our stockholders. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy tests on an ongoing basis concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, nature of our assets and the amounts we distribute to our stockholders. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at times when it would be more advantageous to reinvest cash in our business or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. Stockholders may have current tax liability on distributions they elect to reinvest in our common stock. Participants in our dividend reinvestment plan will be deemed to have received, and for income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in shares of our common stock to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. In addition, participants will be treated for tax purposes as having received an additional distribution to the extent the shares are purchased at a discount to fair market value. As a result, and except with respect to tax-exempt entities, participants in our dividend reinvestment plan may have to use funds from other sources to pay the tax liability on the value of the shares of common stock they receive under the plan. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect investors. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made in the provisions of federal and state income tax laws applicable to investments similar to an investment in shares of the Wells REIT. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and we cannot assure you that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of our stockholders. Any such changes could have an adverse 13 Index to Financial Statements effect on an investment in shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our properties. You are urged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the impact of recent legislation on your ownership of shares and the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on ownership of shares. Risks Associated with Debt Financing We have incurred and are likely to continue to incur mortgage and other indebtedness, which may increase our business risks. As of December 31, 2006, we had total outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.2 billion. We are likely to incur additional indebtedness to acquire properties, to fund property improvements and other capital expenditures, and for other purposes. In addition, our board of directors is currently considering a number of strategies in anticipation of our January 30, 2008 Liquidity Date which could involve, among other things, an increase in either secured or unsecured borrowings, or both. Significant borrowings by us increase the risks of an investment in us. For example, if there is a shortfall between the cash flow from properties and the cash flow needed to service our indebtedness, then the amount available for distributions to stockholders may be reduced. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but we would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt on behalf of the entities that own our properties. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgages or other indebtedness contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, a default on a single loan could affect multiple properties. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders will be limited. High mortgage rates may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire, our net income and the amount of cash distributions we can make. If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable rates, we may not be able to finance the purchase of properties. If we place mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance the properties when the loans become due, or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when we refinance our properties, our income could be reduced. We may be unable to refinance properties. If any of these events occur, our cash flow could be reduced. This, in turn, could reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing more stock or by borrowing more money. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. When providing financing, a lender may impose restrictions on us that affect our distribution and operating policies and our ability to incur additional debt. Loan documents we enter into may contain covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, discontinue insurance coverage or replace our advisors. These or other limitations may limit our flexibility and our ability to achieve our operating plans. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our variable-rate debt payments and limit our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $1.2 billion of indebtedness. As mentioned above, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including debt that may be incurred to refinance fixed-rate 14 Index to Financial Statements indebtedness. Increases in interest rates will increase our interest costs associated with variable-rate debt, which would reduce our cash flows and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of higher interest rates, we might sell one or more of our investments in order to repay the debt, which sale at that time might not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. Risks Related to Internalization Transaction On February 2, 2007, we entered into a Merger Agreement with Wells REF and a number of its affiliates for the purpose of internalizing services currently being provided to us by Wells REF and its affiliates. See Note 15 of our accompanying consolidated financial statements for details. Such a transaction is subject to stockholder approval. Risks specifically associated with the Internalization include: We may not maintain our current level of dividends. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of dividends to our stockholders, including but not limited to, the availability of cash flows from operations, our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements and needs, the level of reserves we establish for future capital expenditures, as well as the impact of pursuing potential growth strategies or other investment or operational strategies as described above. Further, if we list our common stock in the future, our board of directors would also consider additional factors in determining the amount and timing of dividends, such as the level of dividends paid by comparable listed REITs. If we list our common stock, we believe it is probable that our dividend policy would change, likely resulting in the establishment of additional reserves for capital improvements and a reduction in our dividends consistent with dividends paid by comparable listed REITs. However, the amount of this change is indeterminable at this time. In addition, there is no assurance that we would not decide to establish additional reserves for capital improvements or otherwise reduce our current level of dividends in the event we determine not to implement a listing. Certain of our current and future directors and officers have potential conflicts of interest due to their financial interests in the Internalization. All of our current executive officers and certain of our directors have material financial interests in the Internalization transaction. In particular, Messrs. Wells, Williams, and Fretz are also officers and members of the Advisor or its affiliates and, through their ownership of membership interests in Wells Advisory Services I, LLC (“WASI”), own indirect economic interests in WREAS and WGS. Messrs. Wells, Williams, and Fretz will collectively receive beneficial economic interests in approximately 18,373,524 shares of our common stock as a result of the Internalization. Mr. Wells will receive an indirect beneficial economic interest in our stock through his ownership of Wells REF, which is the sole stockholder of Wells Capital and Wells Management, which together own in the aggregate approximately 92% of the economic interests in WASI. Messrs. Williams and Fretz will each receive a beneficial economic interest in approximately 195,463 shares of our common stock through each of their individual approximately 1% economic ownership interest in WASI. Further, Donald A. Miller, CFA, our new Chief Executive Officer and President, and another individual currently affiliated with Wells REF who may become one of our executive officers, will each receive a beneficial economic interest in approximately 195,463 shares of our common stock through their individual approximately 1% economic ownership interests in WASI. In addition, as part of the Internalization, Wells Capital, a wholly owned subsidiary of Wells REF, which is wholly owned by Mr. Wells, will exchange its 20,000 limited partnership units of Wells OP for an additional 22,339 shares of our common stock. Our new Chief Executive Officer will be subject to certain conflicts of interest with regard to enforcing the indemnification provisions contained in the Merger Agreement and enforcing some of the ancillary agreements to be entered into by us in connection with the Internalization transaction. Donald A. Miller, CFA, our new Chief Executive Officer, President, and a director, will receive a beneficial economic interest in our common stock through his approximately 1% ownership interest in WASI, which will 15 Index to Financial Statements receive 19,546,302 in shares of our common stock (valued at approximately $175 million) as a result of the Internalization transaction. Certain provisions of the Merger Agreement and many of the ancillary agreements which will be executed in connection with the Internalization transaction have significant financial impacts on WASI. In particular, Mr. Miller will be subject to conflicts of interest in connection with the enforcement against WASI of indemnification obligations under the Merger Agreement, the enforcement of a pledge and security agreement, and the release of escrowed shares of our common stock issued to WASI under an escrow agreement, each of which could have a negative effect on the number of shares actually issued to WASI in the Internalization transaction and, accordingly, the number of shares in which Mr. Miller will have an economic interest and, thus, will directly impact his personal financial interests. Future sales of shares of our common stock by the owners of the Advisor may adversely affect the fair market value of our shares of common stock. While the shares WASI acquires in the Internalization transaction will be subject to a lock-up provision pursuant to the terms of a pledge and security agreement, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by the owners of the Advisor after the expiration of the lock-up period, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the prices of our common stock if a listing has occurred. In addition, these sales might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price we deem appropriate. Leo F. Wells, III will face conflicts of interest relating to the positions he holds with entities affiliated with Wells REF. Leo F. Wells, III, our former President and current Chairman and director, who we anticipate will remain as our Chairman and one of our directors at least through a possible listing, is also an executive officer and the chairman of the board of directors of Wells Real Estate Investment Trust II, Inc. (“Wells REIT II”), Institutional REIT, Inc., and Wells Timberland REIT, Inc. (“Wells Timber REIT”). As such, Mr. Wells owes fiduciary duties to these entities and their stockholders. Such fiduciary duties may from time to time conflict with the fiduciary duties owed to us and our stockholders. Therefore, Mr. Wells could take actions that are more favorable to these other entities than to us. Some of such conflicts may include the following: • decisions to purchase or sell certain properties which may also be purchased or sold by Wells REIT II or Institutional REIT, Inc.; • decisions related to properties we may own in the same geographic areas as those owned by Wells REIT II or Institutional REIT, Inc. In those cases, a conflict could arise in the leasing of properties if we and these entities were to compete for the same tenants in negotiating leases, or a conflict could arise in connection with the resale of properties in the event that we and these entities were to attempt to sell similar properties at the same time; • decisions to enter into transactions with Wells REIT II or Institutional REIT, Inc., such as property acquisitions, joint ventures, or financing arrangements; • decisions regarding the timing of property sales could be influenced by concerns that the sales would compete with those of Wells REIT II or Institutional REIT, Inc.; and • decisions regarding the timing of an offering of our common stock which could be influenced by concerns that the offering would compete with an offering of Wells REIT II, Institutional REIT, Inc. or Wells Timber REIT. Leo F. Wells, III and our other directors will face competing demands on their time relating to the positions they hold with other entities affiliated with Wells REF. As discussed above, Leo F. Wells, III, is also an executive officer and the chairman of the board of directors of Wells REIT II, Institutional REIT, Inc., and Wells Timber REIT. Mr. Wells also holds positions in various affiliates of Wells REF. Specifically, Mr. Wells is also the sole stockholder, sole director, President and 16 Index to Financial Statements Treasurer of Wells REF, which, through Wells Capital and other affiliates, provides advisory services to Wells REIT II, Institutional REIT, Inc., and Wells Timber REIT and has sponsored and/or serves as general partner of 13 public real estate limited partnerships and various private real estate programs. Mr. Wells is also the sole director, President and Treasurer of both Wells Management and Wells Capital. In addition, Donald S. Moss, one of our independent directors, is also a director of Wells Timber REIT, and all of our current independent directors and Mr. Wells are trustees of the Wells Family of Real Estate Funds, an open-end management company organized as an Ohio business trust, which includes as one of its series the Wells S&P REIT Index Fund. As such, all of these individuals have competing demands on their time and will not devote their full attention to us. After Internalization, we may have to compete with Wells REF and its affiliates for properties and tenants. We have not and will not enter into any non-competition agreements with Wells REF or any of its affiliates in connection with the Internalization. Currently, Wells REF and its affiliates sponsor several public and private real estate programs, many of which invest in commercial properties similar to the properties in which we currently invest, or in which we may invest in the future. Therefore, due to the lack of any non-competition agreements, Wells REF and its affiliates may compete freely with us for certain properties or certain tenants at properties, which may have an adverse effect on our operating results, or may adversely affect the value of our shares if we list our shares in the future. We may continue to invest with affiliates of Wells REF. We have in the past invested in joint ventures with other programs sponsored by affiliates of Wells REF and currently own a number of properties in joint ventures with programs sponsored by affiliates of Wells REF. We may continue to invest in joint ventures with other programs sponsored by affiliates of Wells REF following the Internalization. Our net income per share and Funds From Operations (“FFO”) per share may decrease in the near term as a result of the Internalization. Our net income and FFO may decrease as a result of the Internalization. While we will no longer bear the costs of the various fees and expense reimbursements previously paid to our external advisors if and after we become self-advised, our expenses will include the compensation and benefits of our officers, employees, and consultants, as well as overhead previously paid by our external advisors or their affiliates. Furthermore, these employees will be providing us services historically provided by our external advisors. There are no assurances that, following the Internalization transaction, we will be able to provide those services at the same level or for the same costs as were previously provided to us by our external Advisor and there may be unforeseen costs, expenses, and difficulties associated with providing those services on a self-advised basis. If the expenses we assume as a result of the Internalization are higher than we anticipate, our net income and FFO may be lower as a result of the Internalization than it otherwise would have been. In addition, 19,546,302 shares of our common stock will be issued as consideration for the Internalization and 22,339 shares of our common stock will be issued in exchange for Wells Capital’s 20,000 limited partnership units in Wells OP in connection with the Internalization, thereby increasing the number of our outstanding shares of common stock by 19,568,641, and potentially causing our net income per share and FFO per share to decrease. We may be exposed to risks to which we have not historically been exposed. The Internalization will expose us to risks to which we have not historically been exposed. Excluding the effect of the eliminated asset management fees, our direct overhead, on a consolidated basis, will increase as a result of becoming self-advised. Under the current agreements to provide services with our external Advisor, the responsibility for such overhead is borne by the Advisor and its affiliates. In our current externally-advised structure, we do not directly employ any employees. As a result of the Internalization, we will directly employ 17 Index to Financial Statements persons who are currently associated with the advisor or its affiliates and others currently employed by unaffiliated companies and will establish a new defined contribution retirement plan for our employees. We currently anticipate that we will have approximately 100 to 110 employees following the Internalization. As their employer, we will be subject to those potential liabilities that are commonly faced by employers, such as workers’ disability and compensation claims, potential labor disputes, and other employee-related liabilities and grievances, and we will bear the costs of the establishment and maintenance of such plans. Furthermore, these employees will be providing us services historically provided by our external advisors with the support of a support services agreement and a transition services agreement. There are no assurances that the Advisor we will be acquiring in the Internalization, its management, or employees will be able to provide us with the same level of services when we are self-advised as were previously provided to us under the current agreements to provide services with our external Advisor, and there may be unforeseen costs, expenses, and difficulties associated with the internalized Advisor providing services to us. We have not yet hired all of our executive officers, including our Chief Financial Officer, and there is no assurance we will be able to hire these individuals in the near future. We have currently hired only one of our top executive officers who will run our day-to-day operations if the Internalization is approved. The only executive officer we have hired to date is Donald A. Miller, CFA, who is our new Chief Executive Officer, President, and a member of our board of directors. Although the Advisor we are acquiring is obligated under the Merger Agreement to hire certain individuals who will become our employees as a result of the Internalization and our compensation committee is in preliminary negotiations with certain individuals, we have not yet hired any other of our executive officers including our Chief Financial Officer. If we fail to hire qualified individuals for these key positions prior to the anticipated closing date of the Internalization transaction (“Closing Date”), our operations and financial results could suffer. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire such individuals prior to or immediately after the Closing Date. Additionally, if we are unable to hire, or are delayed in hiring, qualified individuals for these positions, it may delay our ability to list our common stock in the future. After the Internalization, we will be dependent on our own executive officers and employees. We will rely on a small number of persons, particularly Donald A. Miller, CFA, to carry out our business and investment strategies. Any of our senior management, including Mr. Miller, may cease to provide services to us at any time. In addition, Leo F. Wells, III, has resigned as our President; and Douglas P. Williams, our current Executive Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer, and a director; and Randall D. Fretz, our current Senior Vice President, have advised our board that they intend to resign their executive officer positions effective as of the closing of the Internalization transaction. Therefore, none of our previous executive officers will remain involved in the day-to-day operations of Wells REIT after Internalization. The loss of the services of any of our key management personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. As we expand, we will continue to need to try to attract and retain qualified additional senior management, but may not be able to do so on acceptable terms. The failure of our stockholders to approve the proposed incentive plan could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We have entered into an employment agreement with Donald A. Miller, CFA, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and may enter into the employment agreements with other individuals associated with the Advisor or its affiliates and others that we may hire. Such employment agreements will be with persons who will constitute our senior management following the Internalization. Our employment agreement with Mr. Miller does, and we anticipate that these other agreements will, provide, among other things, for incentive compensation awards and target bonuses that will be paid pursuant to the proposed incentive plan if such plan is approved. If the proposed incentive plan or a similar plan is not approved by our stockholders, and we do not otherwise provide bonuses and other equity based incentive awards to Mr. Miller or other members of our management team with whom we 18 Index to Financial Statements may enter into employment agreements in the future, Mr. Miller will be entitled to terminate his employment agreement and other such executives may be entitled to terminate their respective agreements. Further, if the proposed incentive plan is not approved by our stockholders, it could materially adversely affect us because we could be deprived of the services of our senior management and the ability to provide the incentives necessary to attract qualified replacements and other personnel. The share price of $8.9531 agreed to by the parties to the Merger Agreement in their negotiation of the terms of the Internalization may not reflect the fair market value of our shares of common stock. We recently engaged an independent appraisal firm to perform a valuation of our properties as of September 30, 2006. As a result of this valuation, our board determined that the estimated net asset value of our shares of common stock, based primarily on the estimated net asset value of our real estate portfolio, was $8.93 per share. The $8.93 estimated net asset value per share was provided by an independent third party which based its estimate upon (1) the appraised value of our real estate assets as of September 30, 2006, and (2) consideration of the current value of our other assets and liabilities as of September 30, 2006 (including the contingent liability for the subordinated disposition fee described below). This estimated net asset value per share is only an estimate, and is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates, which may not be accurate or complete. There were no liquidity discounts applied to this estimated valuation or discounts relating to the fact that we are currently externally managed, and no attempt was made to value Wells REIT as an enterprise. Further, this should not be viewed as the amount a stockholder would receive in the event that we were to list our shares in the future or to liquidate our assets and distribute the proceeds from such transactions to our stockholders since, among other things, this valuation was not reduced by certain real estate commissions potentially payable to the Advisor in the event the Advisor materially assists in the disposition or other costs of sale. A special committee of our independent directors negotiated the amount of the Internalization consideration by negotiating an aggregate price expressed in dollars ($175 million) and agreeing to use the September 30, 2006 estimated net asset valuation as a basis for determining the number of shares that would represent $175 million in value; however, since the estimated net asset valuation took into account an approximately $12.4 million subordinated disposition fee otherwise payable to the Advisor upon a liquidation of our properties at their September 30, 2006 appraised values, and the obligation to pay this contingent liability would be extinguished upon the acquisition of the Advisor, the parties agreed in the Merger Agreement to use a per-share value of $8.9531 (calculated by excluding the potential liability for the subordinated disposition fee) to determine the amount of shares paid as consideration for the Internalization and to Wells Capital in the Internalization transaction. Since at present there is no active trading market for our shares of common stock, there is no objective way to precisely value the shares that WASI will receive in the Internalization. If we complete a listing in the future, the prices at which our common stock trade following the listing will provide a more objective indication of the value of each share received by WASI. If the fair market value of the 19,546,302 shares to be received by WASI in the Internalization turns out to be greater than $8.9531 per share, WASI will have received consideration worth more than $175 million for the Internalization. Conversely, if the fair market value of those shares turns out to be less than $8.9531 per share, WASI will have received consideration worth less than $175 million. Neither party has the right to terminate the Merger Agreement due to any change in the fair market value of our common stock. If we pursue and complete a listing, our common stock may trade in the public market at prices higher or lower than $8.9531 per share. Our organizational documents contain provisions which may discourage a takeover of us and could depress the price of our shares of common stock. Our organizational documents contain provisions which may discourage a takeover of us and could depress the price of our common stock. Upon completion of the Internalization and implementation of certain proposed amendments to our existing Bylaws, our organizational documents will contain provisions which may have an anti-takeover effect, inhibit a change of our management, or inhibit in certain circumstances, tender offers for our common stock or proxy contests to change our board. These provisions include: directors may only be removed for cause; the stockholders are restricted from altering the number of directors; ownership limits and restrictions 19 Index to Financial Statements on transferability that are intended to enable us to continue to qualify as a REIT; broad discretion of our board to take action, without stockholder approval, to issue new classes of securities that may discourage a third party from acquiring us; the ability, through board action or bylaw amendment to opt-in to certain provisions of Maryland law that may impede efforts to effect a change in control of us; advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and stockholder nominations of directors; and the absence of cumulative voting rights. In addition, the employment agreement with Donald A. Miller, CFA, contains, and the terms of other of our employment agreements and grants under the proposed incentive plan may contain, change-in-control provisions that might similarly have an anti-takeover effect, inhibit a change of our management, or inhibit in certain circumstances tender offers for our common stock or proxy contests to change our board. We may not be successful in executing potential growth strategies or other investment or operational strategies. At a meeting of our independent directors held on January 31, 2007, certain representatives of Wells REF made a presentation involving, among other things, certain growth strategies following the Internalization transaction, including the strategy of establishing property management offices, proposals to increase our leverage and to engage in significant property acquisitions, strategies involving engaging in certain joint venture transactions, and other growth strategies over the next few years, as well as other potential investment and operational strategies. Incurring increased levels of debt will result in increased interest expenses which could increase the risk associated with our real estate portfolio and could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, there are no assurances that we will be able to successfully execute strategies relating to additional property acquisitions, other growth strategies, or other investment or operational strategies following Internalization. The Internalization may have a negative effect on our REIT status for tax purposes. In order to maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are not permitted to have current or accumulated earnings and profits carried over from the Advisor. Under the Merger Agreement, WREAS and WGS have agreed that, prior to the execution of the Merger Agreement, each will adopt resolutions declaring dividends to WASI so as to ensure that WREAS and WGS do not have any current or accumulated earnings and profits (as determined for federal income tax purposes) as of the Closing Date and that such dividends shall be paid prior to the Closing Date. Additionally, it is a condition of closing that we, WREAS, and WGS receive written comfort from our accountants that neither WREAS nor WGS will have any current or accumulated earnings and profits as of the Closing Date of the Internalization. Nevertheless, if the IRS were to successfully assert that we did acquire current or accumulated earnings and profits from the Advisor and failed to distribute, during our taxable year in which the Internalization occurs, all of such earnings and profits, we would lose our REIT qualification for the year of the Internalization, any other taxable years during which we held such acquired earnings and profits and the four taxable years following any such year, unless, in the year of such determination, we make an additional distribution of the amount of earnings and profits determined to be acquired from the Advisor plus any required interest charge. In order to make such an additional distribution, we could be required to borrow funds or sell assets even if prevailing market conditions were not generally favorable. In addition, it is not entirely clear how the assets to be acquired from the Advisor in the proposed Internalization will be classified for purposes of the “Asset Tests” and “Income Tests” applicable for REIT qualification purposes. For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT for any reason, we would not be entitled to a deduction for dividends paid to our stockholders in calculating our taxable income. Consequently, our net assets, our earnings, and our distributions to our stockholders would be substantially reduced because of our increased tax liability. If the Internalization is approved by our stockholders, we may face additional risks and costs associated with directly managing properties with government tenants. We currently own nine properties where some or all of the tenants at such properties are federal government agencies. Because federal government agencies are the tenants at these properties, the lease agreements contain 20 Index to Financial Statements certain provisions required by federal law. The provisions of these leases require, among other things, that the contractor, which is the lessor or the owner of the property, agree to comply with certain rules and regulations, including but not limited to, rules and regulations related to anti-kickback procedures, examination of records, audits and records, equal opportunity provisions, prohibition against segregated facilities, certain executive orders, subcontractor cost or pricing data, and certain provisions intending to assist small businesses. Six of these properties are currently being managed by WGS, which is currently a wholly owned subsidiary of WASI. As part of the Internalization, we will acquire WGS, which will be merged into and become WGS Acquisition, our wholly owned subsidiary. As a result, after Internalization, we, through our wholly owned subsidiary, will be directly managing these properties having federal government agencies as tenants. As a direct manager for these properties, we will be subject to additional risks associated with compliance with all such federal rules and regulations. In addition, there are certain additional requirements relating to the potential application of certain equal opportunity provisions and the related requirement to prepare written affirmative action plans applicable to government contractors and subcontractors. Some of the factors used to determine whether such requirements apply to a company which is affiliated with the actual government contractor, the legal entity which is the lessor under a lease with a federal government agency, include whether such company and the government contractor are under common ownership, have common management, and are under common control. Prior to the Internalization, the entities which were the lessors under these leases with federal government agencies, the government contractor in each case, were our wholly owned subsidiaries and, as set forth above, the leasing of these properties was being handled by WGS, which was not under common ownership, common management, or common control with us or our wholly owned subsidiaries; however, after Internalization, we will own both the entities which are the government contractors and the property manager, WGS, increasing the risk that such Equal Employment Opportunity Commission requirements and requirements to prepare affirmative action plans pursuant to the applicable executive order may be determined to be applicable to us. If our stockholders do not approve the Internalization, or if we are forced to delay the closing of the Internalization due to unforeseen circumstances, we will continue to be subject to certain risks related to conflicts of interest with our current external Advisor. Purchase and leasing of properties We rely on our Advisor to identify suitable investment and leasing opportunities. Our Advisor also advises other real estate programs that compete for the same type of real estate and tenants that we invest in and lease to. As such, our Advisor can direct an investment opportunity or leasing opportunity toward whichever program, in our Advisor’s sole discretion, that is most suitable. Such events could result in our investing in properties that provide less attractive returns or leasing properties to tenants that are more likely to default under their leases, thus reducing the level of dividends we may be able to pay to our stockholders. Commonality of some of our executive officers and directors Some of our current executive officers and some of our directors are also officers and directors of our Advisor, its affiliates, and certain other competing real estate programs sponsored by our Advisor. As a result, they owe fiduciary duties to these various entities and their stockholders and limited partners, which fiduciary duties may from time to time conflict with the fiduciary duties that they owe to us and our stockholders. Their loyalties to these other entities could result in actions or inactions that are detrimental to our business and could hinder the implementation of our current and future business strategies. Examples of such actions or inactions may include, among other things, not enforcing our rights under the terms of our advisory and property management agreements, unwillingness to seek a new Advisor, unfavorable decisions regarding property sales and acquisition, joint ventures, or financing arrangements. If we do not successfully implement our business strategy, we may be unable to generate the cash needed to make distributions to our stockholders and to maintain or increase the value of our assets. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There were no unresolved SEC staff comments as of December 31, 2006. 21 Index to Financial Statements 