ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Future losses may adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows. We have experienced net losses in each of the past three fiscal years. We had net losses in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010, of $26.6 million, $25.9 million and $30.2 million, respectively. These losses are primarily the result of declines in same store sales for each of the last four years. Our same store sales declined 10.3% in fiscal 2007, 8.7% in fiscal 2008, 10.8% in fiscal 2009 and 5.4% in fiscal 2010. We anticipate a net loss in fiscal 2011. Our primary sources of liquidity include available cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations and borrowing under our credit facility. We believe that these sources of liquidity will be sufficient to finance our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot provide any assurance of when our business will return to profitability or that we will not incur future losses. Our announcement on February 15, 2011 that we are exploring strategic alternatives for the Company could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations. On February 15, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors is exploring strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value including, but not limited to, a potential sale of the Company, corporate financing or capital raise. The announcement of our strategic alternatives exploration could cause disruptions or create uncertainty in our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations. Any disruptions or uncertainty could affect our relationships with customers, vendors and employees. We could lose customers or vendors, and contracts or initiatives could be delayed or terminated, due to any uncertainty surrounding our business. Departures of important employees, who decide to pursue other opportunities in light of our announcement, could negatively impact our business and operations. We have diverted, and will continue to divert, significant management resources and attention in our effort to evaluate strategic alternatives, which could also negatively impact our business and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents As part of the strategic alternatives exploration we are considering corporate financing or a capital raise. Any equity, hybrid or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to common shareholders. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and, in any case, such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common shareholders. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that a transaction will result from this process. If we identify and pursue a particular transaction, we may not be able to complete the transaction. Further, there is no guarantee that the terms or conditions of any completed transaction will be favorable. We may incur significant costs in connection with exploring strategic alternatives regardless of whether any transaction is actually completed. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our credit facility, it could materially harm our business and financial condition and restrict our operating flexibility. In January 2009, we entered into an asset-based senior secured revolving credit facility. On March 4, 2011, this facility was extended for an additional five years through March 4, 2016. In addition to customary terms and conditions, we are required to maintain greater than $90.0 million in book value of inventory and have excess availability of more than 10 percent of the borrowing base or $6.0 million, whichever is less. We currently have $22.2 million outstanding under this facility, which includes $3.2 million in stand-by letters of credit. In the event we are required to draw down further on this facility, our debt will increase and may become substantial relative to our cash position. In the event that we have substantial indebtedness, then our business may be negatively impacted. For example, we may become more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements may be limited; a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations may be required to service our debt; and our flexibility to react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited. If we are unable to satisfy our debt service requirements, we may default under this facility. The agreement defines various events of default which include, without limitation, a material adverse effect (as defined in the agreement), failure to pay amounts when due, cross-default provisions, material liens or judgments, insolvency, bankruptcy or a change of control. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lender may take actions that include increasing the interest rate on outstanding obligations, discontinuing advances and accelerating the Company’s obligations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the terms of the facility. In the event that we are unable to comply with the facility, we would seek alternate sources of liquidity. The tightening of the credit markets or a downgrade in our credit ratings based on further deterioration in our financial results could make it more difficult for us to refinance our existing indebtedness, to enter into agreements for new indebtedness or to obtain funding through other sources, such as the issuance of securities. Difficulty in maintaining or obtaining sources of liquidity would have a material adverse impact on our business. Economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue and protitability. Challenging economic conditions could have a significant impact on our business. As a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our customers may allocate less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced availability of credit and a decline in consumer confidence. Any resulting further decreases in our customer traffic or average value per transaction negatively impact our financial performance, as reduced revenues result in sales deleveraging that creates additional downward pressure on margin. Any or all effects of challenging economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including but not limited to, our ability to raise additional capital or draw down on our credit facility, if needed. In addition, the impact of economic conditions on our major suppliers cannot be predicted. The inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver merchandise. If we are unable to purchase products when needed, or if we experience further deterioration in sales traffic in our stores over an extended period of time, our sales and cash flows could be negatively impacted. 9 Table of Contents Competition could negatively impact our operations and results. The arts and crafts industry is highly competitive. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, including multi-store arts and crafts retailers, mass merchandisers, small local specialty retailers, e-commerce vendors and a variety of other retailers. Almost all of our stores face aggressive competition in their market area from one or more of our major competitors. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and operate significantly more stores than we do. We compete with these and other retailers for customers, suitable retail locations, suppliers and qualified associates. Moreover, alternative methods of selling crafts, such as through e-commerce or direct marketing, result in additional competitors and increased price competition because our customers can comparison shop more readily. In addition, we ultimately compete for our customers against alternative sources of entertainment and leisure independent of the arts and crafts industry. We have experienced comparable store sales declines in each of the last four fiscal years and net losses in each of the last three fiscal years. If we are unable to compete effectively, we could experience further loss of market share, resulting in additional sales declines and losses. Competition may also result in price reductions that would negatively impact our gross margin. Our ability to increase sales, profitability and cash flow depends on our ability to increase the productivity and profitability of existing stores. Continued sales declines in our existing stores may further increase our losses and significantly impair cash flow. We are currently planning to open two new stores in fiscal 2011. Because we are planning on opening a limited number of new stores in 2011, any sales growth would come primarily from increases in comparable store sales. We have experienced declines in comparable store sales for each of the past four years and net losses in each of the last three fiscal years. Our comparable store sales declined 10.3% in fiscal 2007, 8.7% in fiscal 2008, 10.8% in fiscal 2009 and 5.4% in fiscal 2010. If we are unable to reverse or decrease our comparable store sales decline, our profitability would depend significantly on our ability to increase margin or reduce costs as a percentage of sales. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our comparable store sales, improve our margin or reduce costs as a percentage of sales. Further, in the event that we implement initiatives to reduce the cost of operating or supporting our stores, sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. Our real estate strategy may not result in improved profitability. We review on an ongoing basis the performance of stores in our real estate portfolio to assess viability of continued operation or potential for remodeling or relocation. As a result of this review, and in light of economic conditions and the decline in sales of our existing store base, we may determine to close stores or exit certain markets where we cannot achieve operating efficiencies. The estimated costs and charges associated with closing stores or exiting markets that we may incur may vary materially based on various factors, including but not limited to, timing in execution and the outcome of negotiations with landlords and other third parties. In addition, our inability to remodel or relocate stores as planned could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have expanded our relocation and remodeling efforts since fiscal 2008. Business may be lost during relocating or remodeling existing stores as a result of customer inconvenience and this business may not be recovered. Various factors, including but not limited to, labor, supply or real estate issues, could cause these capital projects to exceed the time and financial budgets we have projected. As a result of these events and circumstances, unexpected costs may occur, which could result in our not realizing any or all of the anticipated benefits of our strategy. There is no assurance that our real estate strategy will lead to improved operating results. 10 Table of Contents Changes in estimates, assumptions and judgments made by management related to our evaluation of store closure reserves and impairments could significantly affect our financial results. Establishing store closure reserves and evaluating the need for store impairments is highly complex and involves many subjective estimates, assumptions and judgments by our management. For instance, management makes estimates and assumptions with respect to future cash flow projections, long-term business plans, and future net rental obligations less estimated sublease income. If our actual results are not consistent with our estimates, assumptions and judgments by our management, we may be required to increase our store closure reserve or recognize additional impairments. Higher costs or any failure to achieve targeted results associated with the implementation of new programs or initiatives could affect our results of operations adversely. We have undertaken a variety of operating and infrastructure initiatives related to, among other things, supply chain, merchandise assortment, advertising and marketing and real estate remodeling. These changes may result in temporary disruptions to our business and negatively impact sales. The failure to execute any of these initiatives, or the failure to obtain the anticipated results of such initiatives, could have an adverse impact on our future operating results. A weak fourth quarter would have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the year. Our business is highly seasonal. Due to the importance of our peak selling season, which includes the Fall and Winter holiday seasons, the fourth quarter has historically contributed, and is expected to continue to contribute, significantly to our operating results for the entire year. In anticipation of increased sales activity during the fourth quarter, we incur significant additional expense both prior to and during the fourth quarter. These expenses may include acquisition of additional inventory, advertising, in-store promotions, seasonal staffing needs and other similar items. As a result, any factors negatively affecting us during the fourth quarter of any year, including adverse weather and unfavorable economic conditions, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the entire year. Our quarterly results fluctuate due to a variety of factors and are not necessarily a meaningful indicator of future performance. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future depending upon a variety of factors, including, among other things: • the mix of merchandise sold, • the timing and level of markdowns, • promotional events and changes in advertising, • adverse weather conditions (particularly on weekends), • store openings, closings, remodels or relocations, • length and timing of the holiday seasons, • merchandise in-stock positions, • competitive factors, and • general economic and political conditions. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of past operating results cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. If our operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our securities would likely decline. 11 Table of Contents We may not be able to anticipate successfully changes in merchandise trends and consumer demands and our failure to do so may lead to lost sales. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing merchandise trends and consumer demand. Accordingly, any delay or failure by us in identifying and correctly responding to changing merchandise trends and consumer demand could adversely affect consumer acceptance of the merchandise in our stores. In addition, we make decisions regarding merchandise well in advance of each of the seasons in which such merchandise will be sold. Significant deviations from projected demand for merchandise would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, either from lost sales due to insufficient inventory or lower margin due to the need to mark down excess inventory. The failure to respond accurately to inventory requirements may have a material adverse impact on our results from operations. The failure of our buying, replenishment, allocation and store teams to respond accurately to inventory requirements could adversely affect consumer acceptance of the merchandise in our stores and negatively impact sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we misjudge the market, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns, which would have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. Conversely, shortages of key items could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Unfavorable consumer response to our promotional strategies could materially and adversely affect our sales, profitability and cash flow. Advertising promotions, price, quality and value have a significant impact on consumers’ shopping decisions. If we misjudge consumer response to our promotional strategies, our financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. Adverse events could have a greater impact on us than if we had a larger store base in different geographical regions. As of January 1, 2011, we operated a chain of 134 stores. Because our current and planned stores are located in the Eastern United States, the effect on us of adverse events in this region, such as weather or unfavorable regional economic conditions, may be greater than if our stores were more geographically dispersed. Because overhead costs are spread over a smaller store base, increases in our selling, general and administrative expenses could affect our profitability more negatively than if we had a larger store base. One or more unsuccessful new stores, or a decline in sales at an existing store, will have a more significant effect on our results of operations than if we had a larger store base. A disruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have a crisis management plan, we do not have a formal disaster recovery or business continuity plan in place, and could therefore experience a significant business interruption in the event of a natural disaster, catastrophic event or other similar event. The occurrence of such events or other unanticipated problems could cause interruptions or delays in our business, supply chain or infrastructure which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At the end of fiscal 2010, over 90 percent of our merchandise was fulfilled through our distribution center. In addition, our vendors may also be subject to business interruptions from such events. Significant changes to our supply chain or other operations could have a material adverse impact on our results. Our back-up operations and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to cover or compensate us for losses that may occur. 12 Table of Contents Significant changes in our relationships with key suppliers may adversely impact our business. Our performance depends on our ability to purchase merchandise and services at sufficient levels at competitive prices. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to maintain a good relationship with our suppliers. SBAR’S, one of our suppliers, accounted for approximately 17 percent of the aggregate dollar volume of our purchases in fiscal 2010. Generally, we do not have any long-term purchase agreements or other contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could discontinue selling to us at any time. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities or on terms acceptable to us in the future, or be able to develop relationships with new vendors to replace discontinued vendors. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise or services in the future or the loss of one or more key vendors and our failure to replace any one or more of them may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our smaller vendors generally have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories, and some of our vendors have limited the distribution of their merchandise in the past. These vendors may be susceptible to cash flow problems, downturns in economic conditions, production difficulties, quality control issues and difficulty delivering agreed-upon quantities on schedule. We also cannot assure you that we would be able, if necessary, to return product to these vendors, obtain refunds of our purchase price or obtain reimbursement or indemnification from any of our vendors if their products prove defective. In addition, any significant change in the payment terms that we have with our key suppliers could adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. Our reliance on imported merchandise may negatively impact our business in the event of disruptions or increased costs associated with obtaining such merchandise. We have in recent years placed increased emphasis on obtaining floral, seasonal and other items from overseas vendors, with approximately 10 percent of all of our merchandise being purchased directly by us from overseas vendors in fiscal 2010. In addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase their merchandise from foreign sources. China is the source of a substantial majority of our imported merchandise. Because a large percentage of our merchandise is manufactured or sourced abroad, we are required to order these products further in advance than would be the case if these products were manufactured domestically. Risks associated with our reliance on imported merchandise include, but are not limited to: • Disruptions in the flow of imported goods because of factors such as: • Raw material shortages, factory consolidations, work stoppages, strikes and political unrest; • The inability of vendors to secure adequate credit facilities; • Problems with trans-ocean shipping, including storage of shipping containers; and • Global or international economic uncertainties, crises or disputes. • Increases in the cost of purchasing or shipping imported merchandise that may result from: • Increases in shipping rates imposed by trans-ocean carriers; • Changes in currency exchange rates and local economic conditions, including inflation; • Failure of the United States to maintain normal trade relations with China; and • Import duties, quotas and other trade sanctions. A disruption in supply of our imported merchandise, or the imposition of additional costs of purchasing or shipping imported merchandise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations unless and until alternative supply arrangements are secured. Products from alternative sources may be of lesser quality or more expensive than those we currently purchase, resulting in a loss of sales or profit. 13 Table of Contents Our information technology may prove inadequate. We depend on our information technology systems for many aspects of our business. Some of our key software has been developed by our own programmers and this software may not be easily integrated with other software and systems. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if our systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, integrate or expand upon our existing systems. We may not be able to fully realize the anticipated benefits from automated replenishment. We may fail to properly optimize the effectiveness of these systems, or to adequately implement, support and maintain the systems, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. We are a retailer that is dependent on attracting and retaining a large number of quality associates in entry level or part-time positions. Since our ability to meet our labor needs is subject to factors we cannot control, the performance of our business could be negatively impacted by changes in these factors and our cost of doing business could increase as a result of changes in federal, state or local regulations. Our performance is dependent on attracting and retaining a large number of quality associates. Many of those associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to factors we cannot control such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, workers compensation costs and changing demographics. Changes that adversely impact our ability to attract and retain quality associates could adversely affect our performance. In addition, changes in the federal or state minimum wage, living wage requirements or changes in other wage or workplace regulations, including, for example, health care, employee leave or unionization regulations, could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We are dependent upon the services of our senior management team. The loss of Joseph A. Jeffries, our Chief Executive Officer, David Abelman, our Chief Marketing and Merchandising Officer, or David Stern, our Chief Financial Officer, could have a negative impact on our ability to execute on our business and operating strategy. We are dependent on the services, abilities and experience of our executive officers, including Joseph A. Jeffries, our Chief Executive Officer, David Abelman, our Chief Marketing and Merchandising Officer, and David Stern, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of any of these senior executives and any general instability in the composition of our senior management team could have a negative impact on our ability to execute on our business and operating strategy. In addition, success in the future is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, including but not limited to, store general managers. Any inability to do so may have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. An increase in the cost of fuel, oil and oil-based products could impact our margin. Prices for oil have fluctuated dramatically. These fluctuations impact our distribution costs and the distribution costs of our vendors. If the price of fuel continues to increase, our distribution costs will increase, which could impact our margin. In addition, many of the products we sell, such as paints, are oil-based. If the price of oil continues to increase, the cost of the oil-based products we purchase and sell may increase, which could impact our margin. In addition, increasing fuel costs could cause a reduction in consumer discretionary spending which could have a negative impact on sales. 14 Table of Contents The Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act and other existing or future government regulation could harm our business or may cause us to incur additional costs associated with compliance. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including but not limited to, laws and regulations relating to labor and employment, U.S. customs and consumer product safety, including the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, or the “CPSIA.” The CPSIA created more stringent safety requirements related to lead and phthalates content in children’s products. The CPSIA regulates the future manufacture of these items and existing inventories and may cause us to incur losses if we offer for sale or sell any non-compliant items. Failure to comply with the various regulations applicable to us may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties and increased cost of regulatory compliance. These current and any future laws and regulations could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The price and volume of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be so. This volatility may mean that, at times, the holders of our common stock may be unable to resell their shares at or above the price at which they acquired them. Our common stock has been subject to significant price and volume volatility, as stock markets in general have experienced significant price and volume volatility and as we have had operating losses. The market price and volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to any change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. The following factors could affect the market price of our common stock: • our announcement on February 15, 2011 that we are exploring strategic alternatives, as well as any related developments; • economic conditions; • changes in our business, operations or prospects; • continued operating losses; • loss or bankruptcy of any of our distribution partners or suppliers; • departure of key personnel; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, new products or product enhancements, acquisitions, distribution partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • actions by NASDAQ if we failed to satisfy NASDAQ listing rules; • sales of common stock or other securities by us in the future; and • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been initiated against a company following a period of volatility in the market price of the company’s securities. If class action litigation is initiated against us, we will incur substantial costs and our management’s attention will be diverted from our operations. All of these factors could cause the market price of our stock to decline, and investors may lose some or all of the value of their investment. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Our executive officers are as follows: Name Age Position Joseph A. Jeffries 45 Chief Executive Officer and Member of the Board of Directors David Abelman 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandising and Marketing Officer David Stern 44 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Administrative Officer Amy Rhoades 39 Senior Vice President and General Counsel Rodney Schriver 54 Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller 15 Table of Contents Mr. Jeffries has served as Chief Executive Officer since June 2010 and as a member of the Board of Directors since August 2010. He was appointed Acting Chief Executive Officer in March 2010. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from August 2008 to June 2010. He joined A.C. Moore in November 2007 as our Executive Vice President of Operations. Previously, Mr. Jeffries served as Vice President, Store Operations, Space Planning and Visual Merchandising for Office Depot, Inc., a global supplier of office products and services, a position he held from 2004 to November 2007. During 2004 and 2005, he also served as Vice President, Store and Copy Center Operations of Office Depot. From 1999 to 2003, Mr. Jeffries served in the following capacities at Office Depot: Director, Store Prototype Development; Director, Store Operations; and Senior Manager, Store Processes. Prior to his employment with Office Depot, Mr. Jeffries held management positions with Home Quarters Warehouse, Inc., a home improvement retail chain. Mr. Abelman has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing and Merchandising Officer since May 2009. Previously, Mr. Abelman served as Senior Vice President of Marketing for Michaels Stores, Inc., the privately held arts and crafts specialty retailer, from August 2005 through December 2007. As a member of Michaels’ Executive Committee, Mr. Abelman was responsible for marketing, advertising and brand strategy. Mr. Abelman has held senior marketing and merchandising positions with several leading retailers and retail-focused sales and marketing firms during his career. Prior to Michaels, from November 2002 through August 2005, he was the Vice President of Retail Marketing — North America for Office Depot, Inc., where he oversaw marketing for all Office Depot stores in North America. Mr. Abelman also spent nine years in senior management positions and was a member of the Executive Board at Daymon Associates, an international sales and marketing organization specializing in private label development. Mr. Stern has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since June 2009 and Chief Administrative Officer since August 2010. Previously, Mr. Stern served as Divisional Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis of Coldwater Creek Inc., the Nasdaq-traded specialty retailer, since October 2008. He joined Coldwater Creek as its Divisional Vice President, Corporate Controller in June 2007. From May 2000 through June 2007, Mr. Stern served as Chief Financial Officer of Petro Services, Inc., a $500 million privately held convenience store retailer with approximately 150 locations. Ms. Rhoades has served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel since November 2009. She joined A.C. Moore as Vice President and General Counsel in July 2006. From April 2003 to July 2006, Ms. Rhoades was an attorney at the law firm of Blank Rome LLP. Mr. Schriver has served as Vice President and Controller since March 2007 and was appointed Chief Accounting Officer in August 2010. He joined A.C. Moore as Controller in July 2004. Prior to joining A.C. Moore, Mr. Schriver served as Vice President and Assistant Controller with Charming Shoppes, Inc., a national specialty retailer, from 1989 to 2004. Previously, he was a Senior Auditor with Ernst & Young, an independent registered public accounting firm. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 16 Table of Contents 