ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and you as an investor may lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business Our Profitability Has Been Inconsistent Although we were profitable in 2005, 2006 and 2007 we were not profitable in 2008. We cannot be certain that we will generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability. If we do achieve profitability, we cannot be certain that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. To achieve and sustain profitable operations and positive cash flows, we must increase our license and support services revenues. If our revenues do not grow at a rate greater than expenses required to fund our continuing operations, we will not be able to achieve profitability, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We Expect Our Quarterly Revenues and Operating Results to Fluctuate We base our forecast for expenses in part on future revenue projections (as opposed to historical data) due to the continued changes in our business. Many of these expenses are fixed in the short-term and we may not be able to quickly reduce spending if revenues are lower than we have projected. Our ability to accurately forecast our quarterly revenue is limited due to the long sales cycle of our software products, which makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which product implementation will occur and the variability of customer demand for professional services. We would expect our business, operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected if revenues do not meet projections and that net losses in a given quarter would be even greater than expected. Our revenues and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and we expect that our operating results will continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. A number of factors are likely to cause these variations, including: • demand for our products and services; • the timing of sales of our products and services; • the timing of customer orders and product implementations; • seasonal fluctuations in information technology purchasing; • The general economic climate including a prolonged economic recession; 8 Table of Contents • unexpected delays in introducing new products and services; • increased expenses, whether related to sales and marketing, product development, product migration and customer support, or administration; • changes in the rapidly evolving market for Web-based applications; • the mix of product license and services revenue, as well as the mix of products licensed; • the mix of services provided and whether services are provided by our own staff or third-party contractors; • the mix of domestic and international sales; • attrition of key sales, professional services and other customer facing personnel; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • costs related to possible acquisitions of technology or businesses; • global events, including terrorist activities, military operations and widespread epidemics; • changes to our licensing and pricing model; and • difficulty in developing and maintaining an indirect sales channel. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Investors should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. We will continue to invest in our research and development, sales and marketing, professional services and general and administrative organizations. We expect such overall spending, in absolute dollars, will increase in future periods. If our revenue expectations are not achieved, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Adverse changes in general economic or political conditions could adversely affect our operating results. Our business is affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control such as general geopolitical and economic conditions, conditions in the financial markets and the overall demand for enterprise software and services. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including inflation, recession or other changes in economic conditions may result in lower corporate technology spending and adversely affect our revenue. In 2008 the weakening economy had a negative effect on demand for our products and services and this trend could well continue through 2009 or longer. Such unfavorable economic conditions could also result in longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Challenging economic conditions may also impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have already purchased. As a result, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. In addition, we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities (consistent with our investment policy) that are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks which too may be exacerbated by unusual events that have affected global financial markets. If the global credit market continues to deteriorate, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced a decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial results. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Revenue for a Particular Period is Difficult to Forecast and a Shortfall in Revenue Would Harm Our Operating Results Due to the nature of the market in which we compete, our revenue and earnings are difficult to forecast. We plan our operating expenses based on our historical results and, in part, on future revenue projections. Most of our expenses are fixed in the short term and we may not be able to quickly reduce spending if our revenues are 9 Table of Contents lower than we had forecasted. Our ability to accurately forecast our quarterly revenue is limited because our software products have a long sales cycle that makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. We would expect our business, operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected if our revenues do not meet our projections. If We Are Unable to manage the transition of our Significant Research and Development Operations in India from an outsourced Third-Party Service Provider to a Direct model, our Business Could Be Adversely Affected. We are currently using a third-party service provider in India to supply approximately half of our research and development operations. During the quarter ended September 30, 2008, we decided to establish a development center in India and entered into an amended vendor agreement (refer to the 8-K filed on August 28, 2008) to phase out our primary third-party service provider over a twelve month period. Currently we expect the transition to using our own employees in India to begin in the first quarter of 2009. We believe a direct presence in India will achieve significant efficiencies and reduced operational costs. However, for the new development center to achieve its anticipated benefits, we must successfully expand our operations in India and integrate this operation into our existing global organization. Common risks we face with this transition include: • the possibility that the transition of this work from the current third party vendor will be more difficult and more expensive than anticipated; • the possibility that the business cultures will not be compatible; • unanticipated expenses related to integration of operations; • the impairment of relationships with employees as a result of any integration of new personnel; • costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures, including financial accounting systems and customer information systems; • potential inability to retain, integrate and motivate personnel; and • risks related to remote development operations. Establishing a development center in India can be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and may result in revenue disruption and operational difficulties if not completed in a timely and efficient manner. We may be required to spend additional time or money on integration that would otherwise be spent on developing our business or on other matters. If we do not integrate our operations and technology smoothly or if management spends too much time on integration issues, it could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and diminish the benefits of bringing the operation in-house. Once established, we must operate as a combined organization, utilizing common information communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resource practices, including benefits, training and professional development programs. There may be substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in the integration. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the integration. In addition, although to date, the dispute between India and Pakistan involving the Kashmir region and the incidents of terrorism in India have not adversely affected our ability to utilize a third-party service provider in India, such disputes and acts of terrorism could potentially affect our ability to obtain research and development operations from third-party providers. Should we be unable to use a third-party service provider in India for a portion of our research and development in the future, we believe that our business could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our Business May Become Increasingly Susceptible to Numerous Risks Associated with International Operations International operations are generally subject to a number of risks, including: • expenses associated with customizing and localizing products for foreign countries; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition; • changes in jurisdictional tax laws including laws regulating intercompany transactions; • difficulties in developing and maintaining relationships with international vendors; • multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • longer sales cycles; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • seasonality of operations; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; • loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • political and economic instability; and • difficulties in communication of and monitoring compliance with Company controls and policy A significant percentage of our total revenues are generated through licenses and services sold to customers located outside of the United States. We expect international revenue to remain a large percentage of total revenue and we believe that we must continue to expand our international sales activities to be successful. Our international sales growth will be limited if we are unable to establish appropriate foreign operations, expand international sales channel management and support organizations, hire additional personnel, customize products for local markets, develop relationships with international service providers and establish relationships with additional distributors and third-party integrators. In that case, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Even if we are able to successfully expand international operations, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. Historically, a majority of our international revenues and costs have been denominated in foreign currencies and we expect future international revenues and costs will be denominated in foreign currencies. We utilize foreign currency forward contracts to hedge foreign currency-denominated payables and receivables. To date, we have not hedged forecasted transactions or firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies and therefore, financial reporting of our foreign operations is subject to foreign currency risk. Gains and losses on hedging contracts are reflected currently in other income, net. Under our policy, we may enter into foreign currency forward contracts for a term of up to one year. We do not invest in contracts for speculative purposes. Our foreign exchange exposures are monitored regularly to ensure the overall effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge positions. Our program is not designed to hedge all currency risk, but is designed to mitigate large foreign currency exposures recorded on our balance sheet. As part of this monitoring program, in order to evaluate the effectiveness of our hedging practices, in the second quarter of 2007 we did not replace foreign currency hedge positions which expired and re-engaged our foreign currency hedge program in the fourth quarter of 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company realized a loss on foreign currency contracts of $0.2 million, $0.3 million and $13,000, respectively. At December 31, 2008, the notional value of open foreign currency contracts was $1.3 million and, based on the applicable exchange rates, the fair value of derivative financial instruments was a liability of $99,000. At December 31, 2007 we had no foreign currency contracts outstanding. 11 Table of Contents We Must Overcome Significant Challenges in Integrating Businesses Operations and Product Offerings to Realize the Benefits of our Business Combinations As part of our overall strategy, we have acquired or invested in, complementary companies, products and technologies. The Company will continue to consider strategic acquisitions. Risks commonly associated with such transactions include: • the potential difficulties of integrating international and domestic operations; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management resources; • the possibility that the business cultures will not be compatible; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services; • unanticipated expenses related to integration of operations; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new personnel; • potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business and technology; • costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures, including financial accounting systems and customer information systems; • potential inability to retain, integrate and motivate key management, marketing, technical sales and customer support personnel; • risks related to remote development operations; and • risks related to adoption of new business models such as software as a service (SAAS), pricing and licensing methods. For such transactions to achieve their anticipated benefits, we must successfully combine and integrate products in a timely manner. Integrating can be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and may result in revenue disruption and operational difficulties if not completed in a timely and efficient manner. We may be required to spend additional time or money on integration that would otherwise be spent on developing our business or on other matters. If we do not integrate our operations and technology smoothly or if management spends too much time on integration issues, it could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and diminish the benefits of the acquisition as well as harm our content management business. Prior to an acquisition, the acquired company operates independently, with its own business, culture, markets, clients, employees and systems. Following the acquisitions, we must operate as a combined organization, utilizing common information communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resource practices, including benefits, training and professional development programs. There may be substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in the integration. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisition. We Must Succeed in the Portal, Collaboration and Content Management Market as Well as the Document and Records Management Market if We Are to Realize the Expected Benefits of Our Product Strategy and Business Combinations. Our long-term strategic plan depends upon the successful development and introduction of products and solutions that address the needs of the portal, collaboration and content management market as well as the enterprise content management and the document and records management markets. For us to succeed in these markets, we must align strategies and objectives and diversify the focus of our resources to succeed in these various markets. 12 Table of Contents Our success in these new markets will depend on several factors, many of which are outside our control including: • continued growth of the portal, collaboration and content management market; • continued growth of the enterprise content management and document and records management markets; • deployment of the combined company’s products by enterprises; • barriers to entry for the emergence of substitute technologies and products; and • ability to adapt to different sales and marketing techniques required for the various markets. If we are unable to succeed in these markets, our business may be harmed and we may be prevented from realizing the anticipated benefits of our business strategy and our acquisitions. Acquisitions Could Disrupt Our Business, Adversely Affect Our Operating Results and Harm our Stockholder Value The Company will continue to consider strategic acquisitions. We may acquire other businesses in the future, which would complicate our management tasks. We may need to integrate widely dispersed operations that have different and unfamiliar corporate cultures. These integration efforts may not succeed or may distract management’s attention from existing business operations. Failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could seriously harm our business, our operating results and adversely impact our existing stockholders value. In addition, the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of future acquisitions, based on the occurrence of a number of events, including: • delays or failure in the integration of technology, products or operations; • the belief that we have not realized the perceived benefits of the acquisitions in a timely manner or at all; • the dilution of our existing stockholders resulting from issuance of our shares to the acquired company’s shareholders; • the potential negative effect of the acquisition on our operating results, including the impact of amortization of intangible assets, other than goodwill, created by the acquisition and claims that may arise for which we are not indemnified; and • the impact of impairment of goodwill or other acquisition-related intangible assets. Our Quarterly Results May Depend on a Small Number of Large Orders In previous quarters, we derived a significant portion of our software license revenues from a small number of relatively large orders. Our operating results could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to complete a significant order that we expected to complete in a specific quarter. If We Experienced a Product Liability Claim, We Could Incur Substantial Litigation Costs Since our customers use our products for mission-critical applications, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers. They could seek damages for losses from us, which, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions designed to help limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate or alter such limitation of liability provisions. Such claims, if brought against us, even if not successful, would likely be time consuming and costly. 13 Table of Contents Our Ability to Use Net Operating Losses to Offset Future Taxable Income may be Subject to Certain Limitations. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (NOLs) and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income. Based upon a review of historical stock ownership, we do not believe we have undergone an “ownership change” as of December 2008 that will limit our ability to utilize these tax attributes prior to their expiration. However, recent volatility in the stock market has resulted in significant changes in ownership positions of large shareholders, putting the Company at a meaningful risk of triggering this limitation in the future. If a limitation is triggered from an ownership change it will significantly impact our ability to realize the benefit from our deferred tax asset, potentially resulting in impairment of substantially our entire domestic deferred tax asset of $9.0 million at December 31, 2008 and increasing our income tax expense and taxes payable in future periods. Changes in the Company’s Tax Rates Could Affect its Future results. The Company’s future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. In addition, the Company is routinely subject to the examination of its income tax returns. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. We Face Intense Competition from Other Software Companies, Which Could Make it Difficult to Compete Successfully Our market is intensely competitive. Our customers’ requirements and the technology available to satisfy those requirements continually change. We expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, including competition resulting from consolidations in the software industry. Our principal competitors include: in-house development efforts by potential customers or partners; other vendors of software that directly address elements of Web-based applications; and developers of software that address only certain technology components of Web-based applications (e.g., content management, portal management, document management, process, collaboration, integration or analytics). In addition, we face increased competition from large companies with capabilities similar to our software in larger integrated product offerings. Many of these companies have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Many of these companies can also leverage extensive customer bases and adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. Potential competitors may bundle or license their products in a manner that may discourage users from purchasing our products. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. In addition, this competition may impact existing revenue generating partners which could result in reductions in our ability to generate future revenue from these companies. Competitive pressures may make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers and may require us to reduce the price of our software. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. If we fail to compete successfully against current or future competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We Depend on Increased Business from Our Current and New Customers and, if We Fail to Grow Our Customer Base or Generate Repeat Business, Our Operating Results Could Be Harmed If we fail to grow our customer base or generate repeat and expanded business from our current and new customers, our business and operating results would be seriously harmed. Many of our customers initially make a limited purchase of our products and services. Some of these customers may not choose to purchase additional licenses to expand their use of our products. Some of these customers have not yet developed or deployed initial applications based on our products. If these customers do not successfully develop and deploy such initial applications, they may choose not to purchase deployment licenses or additional development licenses. Our business model depends on the expanded use of our products within our customers’ organizations. In addition, as we introduce new versions of our products or new products, our current customers may not require the functionality of our new products and may not ultimately license these products. Because the total amount of maintenance and support fees we receive in any period depends in large part on the size and number of licenses that we have previously sold, any downturn in our software license revenue would negatively impact our future services revenue. In addition, if customers elect not to renew their maintenance agreements, our services revenue could be significantly adversely affected. Our Future Revenue is Dependent Upon Our Ability to Successfully Market Our Existing and Future Products and Solutions We expect that our future financial performance will depend significantly on revenue from existing and future software products and the related tools that we plan to develop. There are significant risks inherent in a product introduction. Market acceptance of our products will depend on continued market development for Web applications and services and the continued commercial adoption of our existing and future products. We cannot be certain this will occur. We cannot be certain that our existing or future products will meet customer performance needs or expectations when released or that they will be free of significant software defects or bugs. If our products do not meet customer needs or expectations, for whatever reason, upgrading or enhancing the product could be costly and time-consuming. Our Operating Results May Be Adversely Affected by Small Delays in Customer Orders or Product Implementations Small delays in customer orders or product implementations can cause significant variability in our license revenues and operating results for any particular period. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of products with related services. In certain cases, our revenue recognition policy requires us to substantially complete the implementation of our product before we can recognize all revenues in a contract and any end-of-quarter delays in product implementation could materially adversely affect operating results for that quarter. To Increase Market Awareness of Our Products and Generate Increased Revenue, We Need to Continue to Strengthen Our Sales and Distribution Capabilities Our direct and indirect sales operations must increase market awareness of our products to generate increased revenue. In 2009, we plan to implement, among other things, new territory assignments, an enhanced reseller model, a new sales force automation system, a new lead management system, and a shift in marketing spend towards more online marketing. It is our intention that these changes will lead to more effective distribution, but there are many changes being implemented at the same time and they may not be successful or could be successful in the long term but lead to weaker performance in the short term. Our products and services require a sophisticated sales effort targeted at the senior management of our prospective customers. The market for talented sales resources is very competitive. We have experienced attrition 15 Table of Contents in our sales force. To continue to strengthen sales and distribution, we must continue to hire a significant number of sales personnel. All new hires will require training and will take time to achieve full productivity. We cannot be certain that our new hires will become as productive as necessary or that we will be able to hire enough qualified individuals or retain existing employees in the future. We plan to expand our relationships with systems integrators and certain third-party resellers to build an indirect influence and sales channel. In addition, we will need to manage potential conflicts between our direct sales force and any third-party reselling efforts. Failure to Maintain the Support of Third-Party Systems Integrators May Limit Our Ability to Penetrate Our Markets A significant portion of our sales are influenced by the recommendations of our products made by systems integrators, consulting firms and other third parties that help develop and deploy Web-based applications for our customers. Losing the support of these third parties may limit our ability to penetrate our markets. These third parties are under no obligation to recommend or support our products. These companies could recommend or give higher priority to the products of other companies or to their own products. A significant shift by these companies toward favoring competing products could negatively affect our license and services revenue. Additionally, these organizations may acquire or distribute software products that compete with our products in future periods. If they become our competitors, this could negatively affect our license and services revenue. Our Lengthy Sales Cycle and Product Implementation Makes It Difficult to Predict Our Quarterly Results We have a long sales cycle because we generally need to educate potential customers regarding the use and benefits of Web-based applications. Our long sales cycle makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales may fall. In addition, since we recognize some of our revenue from product sales upon implementation of our product, the timing of product implementation could cause significant variability in our license revenues and operating results for any particular period. The implementation of our products requires a significant commitment of resources by our customers, third-party professional services organizations or our professional services organization, which makes it difficult to predict the quarter when implementation will be completed. We May Be Unable to Adequately Sustain a Profitable Professional Services Organization, Which Could Affect Both Our Operating Results and Our Ability to Assist Our Customers with the Implementation of Our Products Customers that license our software often engage our professional services organization to assist with support, training, consulting and implementation of their Web solutions. We believe that growth in our product sales depends in part on our continuing ability to provide our customers with these services and to educate third-party resellers on how to use our products. Historically, services costs related to professional services have frequently exceeded, or had been substantially equal to, professional services-related revenue. In this current economic climate, we make periodic capacity decisions based on estimates of future sales, anticipated existing customer needs and general market conditions. Although we expect that our professional services-related revenue will continue to exceed professional services-related costs in future periods, we cannot be certain that this will occur. Our services organization depends on highly skilled technical resources and managers. Our ability to maintain our revenue and margins for this organization could be adversely impacted if we are unable to retain such resources or if we experience difficulties in hiring such resources in the future. We generally bill our customers for our services on a time-and-materials basis. However, from time to time we enter into fixed-price contracts for services, which may include terms and conditions that may extend the recognition of revenue for work performed into subsequent quarters. On occasion, the costs of providing the services have exceeded our fixed price from these contracts and such contracts have negatively impacted our operating results. 16 Table of Contents We May Be Unable to Attract or Retain Necessary Third-Party Service Providers, Which Could Affect Our Ability to Provide Sufficient Support, Consulting and Implementation Services for Our Products We are actively supplementing the capabilities of our services organization by contracting with and educating third-party service providers and consultants to also provide these services to our customers. We may not be successful in attracting additional third-party providers or in educating or maintaining the interest of current third-party providers. In addition, these third parties may not devote sufficient resources to these activities to meet customers’ demands to adequately supplement our services. Additionally, these organizations may acquire or distribute software products that compete with our products in future periods. If they become our competitors, this could negatively affect our revenue. To Properly Manage Future Growth, We Need to Continue to Improve Our Operational Systems on a Timely Basis We have experienced periods of rapid expansion and contraction. We have multiple locations in dispersed geographies around the world. Rapid fluctuations and distributed operations place a significant demand on management and operational resources. To manage such fluctuations effectively, we must continue to improve our operational systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis. If we fail to continue to improve these systems, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. We May Be Adversely Affected if We Lose Key Personnel Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of some key technical, sales, managerial and executive personnel throughout all areas of our business. If we lose one or more of our key employees, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As we continue to manage with an offshore research and development operations model, it is particularly important that our intellectual property is protected and retained during this transfer. In addition, our future success will depend largely on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. In particular, hiring and retaining qualified engineers, skilled solutions providers and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future. Like other software companies, we face competition for qualified personnel. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel, our growth may be limited. If We are Unable to Meet the Rapid Changes in Software Technology, Our Existing Products Could Become Obsolete The market for our products is marked by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and Internet-related technology enhancements, uncertain product life cycles, changes in customer demands, changes in packaging and combinations of existing products and evolving industry standards. We cannot be certain that we will successfully develop and market new products, new product enhancements or new products compliant with present or emerging Internet technology standards. New products based on new technologies, new industry standards or new combinations of existing products as bundled products can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. To succeed, we will need to enhance our current products and develop new products on a timely basis to keep pace with developments related to Internet technology and to satisfy the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our customers. Internet commerce technology, particularly Web-based applications technology, is complex and new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. Any delays in developing and releasing enhanced or new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We Develop Complex Software Products Susceptible to Software Errors or Defects that Could Result in Lost Revenues, or Delayed or Limited Market Acceptance Complex software products such as ours often contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite internal testing and testing by current and potential 17 Table of Contents customers, our current and future products may contain serious defects. Serious defects or errors could result in lost revenues or a delay in market acceptance, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The Company is Subject to Risks Associated with the Availability and Coverage of Insurance Although the Company maintains insurance for certain risks, such coverage does not cover all risks and is limited in coverage amounts and is subject to various policy terms. Because of these limits and because the Company does not maintain insurance coverage for certain risks, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insured limits may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Our Business is Based on Our Intellectual Property and We Could Incur Substantial Costs Defending Our Intellectual Property from Infringement or a Claim of Infringement In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We could incur substantial costs to prosecute or defend any such litigation. Future litigation to either protects our intellectual property or as a result of an alleged infringement of other’s intellectual property may require us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms; • redesign those products or services that incorporate such technology; and • refund a pro-rata portion of the original license consideration paid by the customer. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our technology. These legal protections provide only limited protection. If we litigated to enforce our rights, it would be expensive, divert management resources and may not be adequate to protect our business. Our Product Shipments Could Be Delayed if Third-Party Software Incorporated in Our Products is No Longer Available We integrate third-party software as a component of our software. The third-party software may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. If we cannot maintain positive relationships and licenses to key third-party software, shipments of our products could be delayed or disrupted until equivalent software could be developed or licensed and integrated into our products, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Anti-Takeover Provisions in Our Corporate Documents and Delaware Law Could Prevent or Delay a Change in Control of Our Company Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. Such provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; • providing for a classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • requiring super-majority voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; 18 Table of Contents • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our stock incentive plans may also discourage delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Further, in April 2002, our Board of Directors approved, adopted and entered into a shareholder rights plan referred to as the Plan. The Plan was not adopted in response to any attempt to acquire us, nor were we aware of any such efforts at the time of adoption. The Plan was designed to enable our stockholders to realize the full value of their investment by providing for fair and equal treatment of all stockholders in the event that an unsolicited attempt is made to acquire us. Adoption of the Plan was intended to guard shareholders against abusive and coercive takeover tactics. Under the Plan, stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 6, 2002, received one right to purchase a one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par $0.01 per share, at a price of $300.00 per one one-hundredth, subject to adjustment. The rights were issued as a non-taxable dividend and will expire 10 years from the date of the adoption of the Plan, unless earlier redeemed or exchanged. The rights are not immediately exercisable; however, they will become exercisable upon the earlier to occur of (i) the close of business on the tenth day after a public announcement that a person or group has acquired beneficial ownership of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock or (ii) the close of business on the tenth day (or such later date as may be determined by the Board of Directors prior to such time as any person becomes an acquiring person) following the commencement of, or announcement of an intention to make, a tender offer or exchange offer that would result in the beneficial ownership by a person or group of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. If a person or group acquires 15 percent or more of our common stock, then all rights holders except the acquirer will be entitled to acquire our common stock at a significant discount. The intended effect will be to discourage acquisitions of 15 percent or more of our common stock without negotiation with the Board of Directors. Terrorist Activities and Resulting Military and Other Actions Could Adversely Affect Our Business The continued threat of terrorism within the United States and abroad, military action in other countries and heightened security measures may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world. To the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, a general decrease in corporate spending on information technology, or our inability to effectively market, sell and deploy our software and services, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are unable to predict whether the threat of terrorism or the responses thereto will result in any long-term commercial disruptions or if such activities or responses will have a long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Changes in Accounting Rules Could Affect the Company’s Future Operating Results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. A change from current accounting standards could have a significant effect on the Company’s results of operations. For example, in December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (Statement 141R) to change how an entity accounts for the acquisition of a business. That statement, which became effective for the Company in January 2009, changes how an entity accounts for the acquisition of a business. 19 Table of Contents Through fiscal year December 2008, the Company recorded all changes to a valuation allowance for acquired deferred tax assets or the effect of changes in an acquired tax position that occur after the acquisition date by initially reducing the related goodwill to zero, next by reducing other noncurrent intangible assets related to the acquisition to zero and lastly by reducing income tax expense. However, Statement 141R amends Statement 109 and Interpretation 48 to require the Company to recognize changes to the valuation allowance for an acquired deferred tax asset or the effect of changes to an acquired tax position as adjustments to income tax expense or contributed capital, as appropriate, and not as adjustments to goodwill. This change in accounting applies to valuation allowances and tax positions related to acquisitions accounted for originally under Statement 141 as well as those accounted for under Statement 141R. The Company had a $21.0 million valuation allowance at December 31, 2008 related to deferred tax assets acquired in business combinations. Any change in the valuation allowance subsequent to December 31, 2008 will be recorded as an adjustment to income tax expense rather than as an adjustment to goodwill or other noncurrent intangible assets. Statement 141R also amends the goodwill impairment test requirements in Statement 142. For a goodwill impairment test as of a date after the effective date of Statement 141R, the value of the reporting unit and the amount of implied goodwill, calculated in the second step of the test, will be determined in accordance with the measurement and recognition guidance on accounting for business combinations under Statement 141R. This change could affect the determination of what amount, if any, should be recognized as an impairment loss for goodwill recorded before the effective date of Statement 141R. Finally, State 141R also amends the accounting of transaction costs associated with acquisitions, requiring immediate expensing rather than capitalizing as part of the purchase accounting adjustments. This could result in an adverse impact on our future operating results. Our Financial Statements Could be Impacted by Unauthorized and Improper Actions of Our Personnel Our financial statements could be adversely impacted by our employees’ errant or improper actions. For instance, revenue recognition depends on, among other criteria, the terms negotiated in our contracts with our customers. Our personnel may act outside of their authority and negotiate additional terms without our knowledge. We have implemented policies to prevent and discourage such conduct, but there can be no assurance that such policies will be followed. For instance, in the event that our sales personnel have negotiated terms that do not appear in the contract and of which we are unaware, whether the additional terms are written or oral, we could be prevented from recognizing revenue in accordance with our plans. Furthermore, depending on when we learn of unauthorized actions and the size of transactions involved, we may have to restate our financial statements for a previously reported period, which would seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We Have Incurred Significant Costs in Response to Ongoing Laws and Regulations Laws and regulations affecting public companies, including but not limited to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have caused us to incur costs as we evaluate and respond to the resulting requirements. The rules could make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance and we may incur higher costs to obtain coverage similar to our existing policies. Additionally, we have incurred and expect to incur on an ongoing basis increased accounting, audit and legal fees to assist us assess, implement and comply with such rules. The ongoing and proposed rules could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors. Charges to earnings resulting from asset impairments may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”) , the Company assesses its goodwill for impairment on October 1 of each year or more 20 Table of Contents frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. As required by SFAS 142, the impairment test is accomplished using a two-stepped approach. The first step screens for impairment by comparing the fair value of the Company with its carrying amount, including goodwill. To determine the Company’s fair value, the Company employs a market capitalization approach, comparing the net book value of the Company to its market capitalization, adjusted to reflect market observed control premiums. If, under the first step, an, impairment is indicated, a second step is performed which applies additional valuation techniques to determine if there is an impairment and how much the impairment would be. This second step compares the implied fair value of the goodwill with the carrying amount of the goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined based on a variety of valuation techniques including discounted cash flows and earnings or revenue multiples. As of October 1, 2008, the Company determined the market capitalization, after considering market observed control premiums, exceeded net book value and that the remaining net goodwill balance of $121.1 million at October 1, 2008 was not considered to be impaired. In accordance with SFAS 142, goodwill of a reporting unit shall be tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances. Driven by the significant decline in the market capitalization of public companies in its peer group in the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company concluded that it should again test its goodwill for impairment on December 31, 2008. In accordance with paragraph 25 of SFAS 142 the company considered a variety of industry standard revenue multiples, probability weighted, its available cash balances and market capitalization, after considering market observed control premiums. Using these reference points, the Company has determined that the remaining net goodwill balance of $121.1 million at December 31, 2008 was not considered to be impaired. The company recognizes that, over the longer term, the market price for our stock plus an appropriate control premium should represent fair value and, if market conditions fail to improve, we may incur charges for goodwill impairment in the future, which could be significant and could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. In addition, we periodically review the estimated useful lives of our identifiable intangible assets, taking into consideration any events or circumstances that might result in either a diminished fair value or revised useful life. The events and circumstances include significant changes in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators and competition. Any impairment or revised useful life could have a material impact on our consolidated operating results and financial position, and could harm the trading price of our common stock. Based on this assessment no such impairment charges were recorded in 2008, 2007 or 2006. Our Business is Sensitive to the Overall Economic Environment; a Slowdown in Information Technology Spending Could Harm Our Operating Results The primary customers for our products are enterprises seeking to launch or expand Web-based initiatives. Due to the current economic environment, a significant downturn in our customers’ markets and in general economic conditions has resulted in reduced information technology spending budgets, thus resulting in a decreased demand for our products and services, therefore, harming our business. This significant downturn could continue or even get worse in 2009 or beyond. Industry downturns like these have been, and may continue to be, characterized by diminished product demand, erosion of average selling prices, lower than expected revenues and difficulty making collections from existing customers. Our Performance Will Depend on the Market for Web Based Application Software The market for Web-based applications software is rapidly evolving. We expect that we will continue to need intensive marketing and sales efforts to educate prospective customers about the uses and benefits of our products and services. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that a viable market for our products will emerge or be sustainable or that market campaigns will result in increased demand for our products and services. Enterprises 21 Table of Contents that have already invested substantial resources in other methods of conducting business may be reluctant or slow to adopt a new approach that may replace, limit or compete with their existing systems. Similarly, individuals have established patterns of purchasing goods and services. They may be reluctant to alter those patterns. They may also resist providing the personal data necessary to support our existing and potential product uses. Any of these factors could inhibit the growth of online business generally and the market’s acceptance of our products and services in particular. There is Substantial Risk that Future Regulations Could Be Enacted that Either Directly Restrict Our Business or Indirectly Impact Our Business by Limiting the Growth of Internet Commerce As Internet commerce evolves, we expect that federal, state or foreign agencies will adopt regulations covering issues such as user privacy, pricing, content and quality of products and services. If enacted, such laws, rules or regulations could limit the market for our products and services, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Although many of these regulations may not apply to our business directly, we expect that laws regulating the solicitation, collection or processing of personal and consumer information could indirectly affect our business. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 prohibits certain types of information and content from being transmitted over the Internet. The prohibition’s scope and the liability associated with a Telecommunications Act violation are currently unsettled. In addition, although substantial portions of the Communications Decency Act were held to be unconstitutional, we cannot be certain that similar legislation will not be enacted and upheld in the future. It is possible that such legislation could expose companies involved in Internet commerce to liability, which could limit the growth of Internet commerce generally. Legislation like the Telecommunications Act and the Communications Decency Act could dampen the growth in Web usage and decrease its acceptance as a communications and commercial medium. The United States government also regulates the export of encryption technology, which our products incorporate. If our export authority is revoked or modified, if our software is unlawfully exported or if the United States government adopts new legislation or regulation restricting export of software and encryption technology, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Current or future export regulations may limit our ability to distribute our software outside the United States. Although we take precautions against unlawful export of our software, we cannot effectively control the unauthorized distribution of software across the Internet. Risks Related to the Securities Markets Our Stock Price May Be Volatile The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and has fluctuated significantly in the past. We believe that it may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in quarterly operating results; • the impact of stock option expensing; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations of web based software companies; • announcements by us of significant contracts, acquisitions, restructurings, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant license transactions; • additions or departures of key personnel; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; 22 Table of Contents • large percentage of stock held by a few large shareholders; and • fluctuations in stock market price and volume, which are particularly common among highly volatile securities of Internet and software companies. Our Business May Be Adversely Affected by Class Action Litigation Due to Stock Price Volatility In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We are a party to the securities class action litigation described in “Legal Proceedings” of this Report. The defense of this litigation may increase our expenses and divert our management’s attention and resources and an adverse outcome could harm our business and results of operations. Additionally, we may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Future securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We May Be Unable to Meet Our Future Capital Requirements Although we expect our cash balances to be sufficient to manage our operations, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds and we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise funds, if needed, on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We May Need to Raise Additional Capital, Which May Be Dilutive to Our Stockholders We may need to raise additional funds to meet our future capital requirements. If we issue equity securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If Our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting Do Not Comply With the Requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Our Business and Stock Price Could Be Adversely Affected Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. Our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, involving the company have been, or will be, detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 23 Table of Contents Although our management has determined and our independent registered public accounting firm has attested, that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008, we cannot provide assurance that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Our Business is Subject to Changing Regulation of Corporate Governance and Public Disclosure That Has Increased Both Our Costs and the Risk of Noncompliance Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Securities Exchange Commission and NASDAQ, have issued requirements and regulations and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to recent laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our efforts to comply with these new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting has required, and continues to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 