ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT RELATING TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain oral statements made by our management from time to time and certain statements contained herein or in other reports filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission or incorporated by reference herein or therein are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), with respect to our results of operations and our business. All such statements, other than statements of historical facts, including those regarding market trends, our financial position and results of operations, business strategy, projected costs, and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. In general, such statements are identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases including, but not limited to, "intended," "will," "should," "may," "believes," "expects," "expected," "anticipates" and "anticipated" or the negative thereof or variations thereon or similar terminology. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward- looking statements are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. These forward-looking statements represent our current judgment. We disclaim any intent or obligation to update our forward-looking statements. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, our actual results could differ materially. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations ("Cautionary Statements") include those that are discussed below. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the Cautionary Statements. AN INCREASE IN OUR SALES, PROFITABILITY AND CASH FLOW WILL DEPEND ON OUR ABILITY TO INCREASE THE NUMBER OF STORES WE OPERATE AND INCREASE THE PRODUCTIVITY AND PROFITABILITY OF OUR EXISTING STORES. The key components of our growth strategy are to increase the number of stores we operate and increase the productivity and profitability of our existing stores. If we are unable to implement this strategy, our ability to increase our sales, profitability and cash flow could be significantly impaired. To the extent we are unable to open new stores as planned, our sales growth would come only from increases in comparable store sales. Growth in profitability in that case would depend significantly on our ability to increase margins or reduce our costs as a percentage of sales. There are many factors, some of which are beyond our control, which could impact our ability to implement our strategy for opening new stores. These factors include: o our ability to identify suitable markets in which to expand, o the availability of suitable sites for additional stores, o the ability to negotiate acceptable lease terms for sites we identify, o the availability of acceptable financing to support our growth, o our ability to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified managers and other store personnel, and o the effectiveness of our advertising strategies. 11 IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN AN EFFECTIVE SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROLS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ACCURATELY REPORT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS OR PREVENT FRAUD. AS A RESULT, CURRENT AND POTENTIAL SHAREHOLDERS COULD LOSE CONFIDENCE IN OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING, WHICH COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS AND THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Beginning in the middle of 2003, we began a process to document and evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations, which require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. In this regard, management has dedicated internal resources and adopted a detailed work plan to (i) assess and document the adequacy of internal controls over financial reporting, (ii) take steps to improve control processes, where appropriate, (iii) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and (iv) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If compliance with policies or procedures deteriorate and we fail to correct any associated issues in the design or operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. OUR SUCCESS WILL DEPEND ON HOW WELL WE MANAGE OUR GROWTH. Even if we are able to implement, to a significant degree, our key growth strategies of expanding our store base and increasing the productivity and profitability of our existing stores, we may experience problems relating to our growth, which may prevent any significant increase in profitability or negatively impact our cash flow. For example: o The costs of opening and operating new stores may offset the increased sales generated by the additional stores; o The opening of additional stores in an existing market could reduce net sales from existing stores in that market; o The opening of stores in new geographic markets may present competitive and merchandising challenges that are different than those we face in our existing geographic markets; o The closing or relocation of under-performing stores may result in us retaining liability for outstanding lease obligations; o Our growth may outpace our ability to expand, upgrade and improve our administrative, operational and management systems, controls and resources; o We may be unable to hire and train sufficient qualified managers and other store personnel; 12 o Our suppliers may be unable to meet our increased demand for merchandise as a result of the additional stores and increased productivity of our existing stores; and o We may be unable to expand our existing distribution capabilities, or employ third-party distribution services on a cost-effective basis, to provide sufficient merchandise for sale by our new stores. A WEAK FOURTH QUARTER WOULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATING RESULTS FOR THE YEAR. Our business is affected by the seasonality pattern common to most retailers. Due to the importance of our peak selling season, which includes Fall/Halloween, Thanksgiving and Christmas, the fourth quarter has historically contributed, and is expected to continue to contribute, a significant portion of our net income for the entire year. In anticipation of increased sales activity during the fourth quarter, we incur significant additional expense both prior to and during the fourth quarter. These expenses may include acquisition of additional inventory, advertising, in-store promotions, seasonal staffing needs and other similar items. As a result, any factors negatively affecting us during the fourth quarter of any year, including adverse weather and unfavorable economic conditions, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the entire year. OUR QUARTERLY RESULTS FLUCTUATE DUE TO A VARIETY OF FACTORS AND ARE NOT A MEANINGFUL INDICATOR OF FUTURE PERFORMANCE. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future depending upon a variety of factors, including, among other things: o the mix of merchandise sold, o the timing and level of markdowns, o promotional events, o adverse weather conditions, o store openings and closings, o remodels or relocations of our stores, o length and timing of the holiday seasons, o competitive factors, and o general economic and political conditions. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of past operating results cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our securities would likely decline. 13 OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON KEY PERSONNEL WHOM WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RETAIN OR HIRE. We are currently dependent upon the continued services, ability and experience of our senior management team. John E. ("Jack") Parker, our Chief Executive Officer, has announced his intention to retire no later than December 31, 2006. We currently have a search in process for a new Chief Executive Officer. This search is led by a committee of our board of directors, chaired by Michael J. Joyce, and by Korn/Ferry International. There are no assurances as to when we will find a suitable candidate for this position, what the financial cost of his or her compensation package will be, and what effect, if any, a new Chief Executive Officer may have on our business and our ability to retain our senior executives. The loss of the services of such senior executives or any general instability in the composition of our senior management team could have a negative impact on our ability to execute on our business and operating strategy. In addition, due to competition for qualified executives, we may be required to increase the level of compensation paid to existing and new executives, which could increase our operating expenses. Once we hire a new Chief Executive Officer, our business may be impacted by his or her familiarity with our business, his or her ability to develop relationships with our team members and vendors, and his or her ability to implement or change our business and operating strategy. We do not maintain any key man life insurance on any members of our senior management team. Our success in the future will also be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, including store managers. WE FACE AN EXTREMELY COMPETITIVE RETAIL BUSINESS MARKET. The arts and crafts retailing business is highly competitive. We currently compete against a diverse group of retailers, including multi-store arts and crafts retailers, mass merchandisers, small local specialty retailers, mail order vendors, hardware stores and a variety of other retailers. Almost all of our stores face aggressive competition in their market area from one or more of our major competitors. In addition, alternative methods of selling crafts, such as over the Internet or direct marketing, could result in additional future competitors and increased price competition because our customers could more readily comparison shop. Some of our competitors, particularly the mass merchandisers and national arts and crafts chains, have substantially greater financial resources and operate more stores than we do. We also compete with these and other retailers for customers, suitable retail locations, suppliers and qualified employees and management personnel. Moreover, increased competition may result in potential or actual litigation between us and our competitors relating to such activities as competitive sales and hiring practices, exclusive relationships with key suppliers and manufacturers and other matters. As a result, increased competition may adversely affect our future financial performance, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively in the future. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY ANTICIPATE CHANGES IN MERCHANDISE TRENDS AND CONSUMER DEMANDS AND OUR FAILURE TO DO SO MAY LEAD TO LOSS OF SALES AND THE CLOSING OF UNDER-PERFORMING STORES. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing merchandise trends and consumer demand. Accordingly, any delay or failure by us in identifying and correctly responding to changing merchandise trends and consumer demand could adversely affect consumer acceptance of the merchandise in our stores. In addition, we make decisions regarding merchandise well in advance of each of the seasons in which such merchandise will be sold. Significant deviations from projected demand for merchandise would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, either from lost sales due to insufficient inventory or lower margins due to the need to mark down excess inventory. 14 A material decline in sales and other adverse conditions resulting from our failure to accurately anticipate changes in merchandise trends and consumer demands may require us to close under-performing stores. Closing stores would subject us to additional costs including, but not limited to, taking reserves on impaired assets, loss of customer goodwill and costs associated with outstanding lease obligations. BECAUSE OF OUR SMALL STORE BASE ADVERSE EVENTS COULD HAVE A GREATER IMPACT ON US THAN IF WE HAD A LARGER store base. As of December 31, 2005, we operated a chain of 109 stores. Because our current and planned stores are located in the eastern United States, the effect on us of adverse events in this region (such as weather or unfavorable regional economic conditions) may be greater than if our stores were more geographically dispersed. Because overhead costs are spread over a smaller store base, increases in our general and administrative expenses could affect our profitability more negatively than if we had a larger store base. Due to our relatively small store base, one or more unsuccessful new stores, or a decline in sales at an existing store, will have a more significant effect on our results of operations than would be the case if we had a larger store base. A DISRUPTION IN THE OPERATIONS OF OUR DISTRIBUTION CENTER COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our distribution center in suburban Philadelphia handles 36% of the merchandise sold in our stores. Our distribution center, and thus our distribution operations, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, break-ins and similar events. We have no formal disaster recovery plan. The occurrence of unanticipated problems at our distribution center, all of which may not be covered by insurance, could cause interruptions or delays in our business which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. WE DEPEND ON A NUMBER OF KEY VENDORS TO SUPPLY OUR MERCHANDISE, AND THE LOSS OF ANY ONE OF OUR KEY VENDORS MAY RESULT IN A LOSS OF SALES AND SIGNIFICANTLY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Our performance depends on our ability to purchase our merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. Although we have many sources of merchandise, SBAR'S, our largest supplier of merchandise, accounted for approximately 21% of the aggregate dollar volume of our purchases in 2005. We depend on SBAR'S to provide us with low-cost merchandise that would be less efficient for us to obtain directly from other vendors or manufacturers. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to maintain a good relationship with SBAR'S and our other principal suppliers. We do not have any long-term purchase agreements or other contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor or distributor could discontinue selling to us at any time. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities or on terms acceptable to us in the future, or be able to develop relationships with new vendors to replace discontinued vendors. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise in the future or the loss of one or more key vendors and our failure to replace any one or more of them may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our smaller vendors generally have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories, and some of our vendors have limited the distribution of their merchandise in the past. These vendors may be susceptible to cash flow problems, downturns in economic conditions, production difficulties, quality control issues and difficulty delivering agreed-upon quantities on schedule. We also cannot assure you that we would be able, if necessary, to return product to these vendors and obtain refunds of our purchase price or obtain reimbursement or indemnification from any of our vendors if their products prove defective. 15 WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH SOURCING AND OBTAINING MERCHANDISE FROM FOREIGN SOURCES. We have in recent years placed increased emphasis on obtaining floral and seasonal items from overseas vendors, with approximately 12% of all of our merchandise being purchased directly by us from overseas vendors in 2005. In addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase a portion of their merchandise from foreign sources. Our future success will depend in large measure upon our ability to maintain our existing foreign supplier relationships and to develop new ones. While we rely on our long-term relationships with our foreign vendors, we have no long-term contracts with them. In addition, virtually all of the merchandise which we purchase from foreign sources is manufactured in the People's Republic of China. Since adoption of an "open-door policy" in 1978, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of foreign trade and investment and greater economic decentralization. We cannot assure you, however, that China will continue to pursue these policies. Many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs and quotas that may limit the quantity of some types of goods which we may import into the United States. Our dependence on foreign imports also makes us vulnerable to risks associated with products manufactured abroad, including, among other things: o changes in import duties, tariffs and quotas, o loss of "most favored nation" trading status by the United States in relation to a particular foreign country, including the People's Republic of China, o work stoppages, o delays in shipments, o revaluation of the Chinese currency, o freight cost increases, o economic uncertainties, including inflation, o foreign government political unrest, and o trade restrictions, including the United States retaliating against protectionist foreign trade practices. If any of these or other factors were to render the conduct of business in particular countries undesirable or impractical, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because we would have difficulty sourcing the merchandise we need to remain competitive. An interruption or delay in supply from our foreign sources, or the imposition of additional duties, taxes or other charges on these imports could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations unless and until alternative supply arrangements are secured. Products from alternative sources may be of lesser quality and/or more expensive than those we currently purchase, resulting in a loss of sales to us. 16 WE FACE RISKS RELATING TO INVENTORY. We depend upon our in-store department managers to reorder the majority of our merchandise. The failure of these department managers to accurately respond to inventory requirements could adversely affect consumer acceptance of the merchandise in our stores and negatively impact sales which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we misjudge the market, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns, which would have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. Conversely, shortages of key items could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, we conduct a physical inventory in our stores once a year, and quarterly results are based on an estimated gross margin and accrual for estimated inventory shrinkage. OUR MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS MAY PROVE INADEQUATE. We depend on our management information systems for many aspects of our business. Some of our key software has been developed by our own programmers and this software may not be easily integrated with other software and systems. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, integrate or expand upon our systems, particularly in light of our intention to significantly increase the number of stores that we operate. AN INCREASE IN THE COST OF FUEL OIL AND OIL-BASED PRODUCTS COULD IMPACT OUR EARNINGS AND MARGINS. Prices for oil have fluctuated dramatically in the past and have risen substantially in 2005. These fluctuations impact our distribution costs and the distribution costs of our vendors. If the price of fuel oil continues to increase, our distribution costs will increase, which could impact our earnings. In addition, many of the products we sell, such as paints, are oil-based. If the price of oil continues to increase, the price of the oil-based products we purchase and sell may increase, which could impact our margins. TERRORIST ATTACKS AND THREATS OR ACTUAL WAR MAY IMPACT ALL ASPECTS OF OUR OPERATIONS, REVENUES, COSTS AND STOCK PRICE IN UNPREDICTABLE WAYS. Terrorist attacks in the United States, as well as future events occurring in response or in connection to them, including, without limitation, future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies or military or trade disruptions impacting our domestic or foreign suppliers of merchandise, may impact our operations, including, among other things, causing delays or losses in the delivery of merchandise to us and decreased sales of the products we carry. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. They also could result in a deepening of any economic recession in the United States or abroad. These events could also temporarily increase demand for our products as consumers respond by traveling less and engaging in home-based leisure activities which could contribute to a temporary increase in our sales which may not be sustainable. Any of these occurrences could have a significant impact on our operating results, revenues and costs and may result in the volatility of the market price for our common stock and on the future price of our common stock. 17 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers are as follows: NAME AGE POSITION - -------------------------------------- --- ------------------------------------------------------ John E. ("Jack") Parker............... 64 Chief Executive Officer and Director Lawrence H. Fine...................... 52 President, Chief Operating Officer and Director Patricia A. Parker.................... 63 Executive Vice President, Merchandising Leslie H. Gordon...................... 62 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Janet Parker.......................... 43 Executive Vice President, Merchandising and Marketing Jeffrey C. Gerstel.................... 41 Executive Vice President, Store Operations Mr. Parker, our co-founder, has been Chief Executive Officer and a director since our inception and was our President from inception until June 2001. From 1959 to 1984, Mr. Parker worked for the F.W. Woolworth Company, a general merchandise retailer, in various management positions, most recently as President and Chief Executive Officer of the United States General Merchandise Group where he was responsible for more than 1,000 stores, including the entire domestic chain of Woolworth retail stores. Mr. Parker is the husband of Patricia A. Parker and the father of Janet Parker. On November 28, 2005, Mr. Parker announced his intention to retire from his position as our Chief Executive Officer by December 31, 2006. Mr. Parker will continue to serve as our Chief Executive Officer during 2006 until the Board of Directors appoints a new Chief Executive Officer. Our Board of Directors has engaged the firm of Korn/Ferry International to conduct a search for a successor. The search will include internal as well as external candidates. Mr. Fine has served as our President since June 2001 and our Chief Operating Officer since February 2003. Mr. Fine was elected as a director in August 2002. Previously Mr. Fine was Executive Vice President - General Merchandise Manager for arts and crafts retailer Michaels Stores, Inc., a position he held since December 1996. From 1995 until joining Michaels in December 1996, he was Senior Vice President of Merchandising for Party City Corp., a specialty retailer of party merchandise. Prior to joining Party City, Mr. Fine held a variety of merchandising positions with the Jamesway Corporation, a retail mass-merchandiser, for nearly 16 years. Ms. Patricia Parker has served as our Executive Vice President, Merchandising since September 1990. From 1985 to 1990, she served as our Vice President. Ms. Parker is responsible for purchasing all of our floral and seasonal merchandise and our import purchasing program. Ms. Parker served as a director of the Company until August 2002. Ms. Parker is the wife of Jack Parker and the mother of Janet Parker. Mr. Gordon has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since February 1999. From March 1996 to January 1999, Mr. Gordon served as our Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer. From 1992 to 1995, Mr. Gordon was Senior Vice President, Finance of C & J Clark America, Inc., a shoe manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer. From 1986 to 1992, Mr. Gordon served as Senior Vice President, Finance, of SILO, Inc., an electronics retailer. Ms. Janet Parker has served as our Executive Vice President, Merchandising and Marketing since February 2003. From 2001 to January 2003 Ms. Parker served as Senior Vice President, Merchandising and Marketing and from 1994 to 2001 Ms. Parker served as Senior Vice President, Merchandising. From 1990 to 1994, Ms. Parker served as our Vice President of Administration and from 1985 to 1990, she served as our Accounting Manager. Ms. Parker is the daughter of Jack and Patricia A. Parker. 18 Mr. Gerstel has been Executive Vice President, Store Operations since January 2005. Previously Mr. Gerstel was President/Chief Operating Officer for fabrics and crafts retailer Rag Shops, Inc., a position he held since 2001. From 1999 until joining Rag Shops in 2001, he was Chief Operating Officer for The Parts Plus Group, Inc., a distributor/retailer of automotive replacement parts, and from 1997 to 1999 he was their Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining The Parts Plus Group, Mr. Gerstel held a variety of financial and operating positions with Family Bargain Corporation, an off-price apparel retailer, for seven years. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 19 