ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue and profitability. The recent financial crisis has intensified and a severe global recession now appears likely. As a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, we will face an extremely challenging fiscal 2009. Our customers may allocate less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced availability of credit and an overall decline in consumer confidence. Any resulting decreases in customer traffic or average value per transaction will negatively impact our financial performance as reduced revenues result in sales de-leveraging which creates additional downward pressure on margin. Further, many of the effects and consequences of the economic downturn are currently unknown. Any or all of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including but not limited to, our ability to raise additional capital or draw down on our credit facility, if needed. In addition, the impact of this crisis on our major suppliers cannot be predicted. The inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver merchandise. If we are unable to purchase products when needed, or if we experience further deterioration in sales traffic in our stores over an extended period of time, our sales and cash flows could be negatively impacted. Future losses may adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows. We had a net loss of $26.6 million for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2009. Our primary sources of liquidity include borrowing under our credit facility, available cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations. We believe that our primary sources of liquidity will be sufficient to finance our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot provide any assurance that our business will return to profitability or that we will not incur future losses. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our credit facility, it could materially harm our business and financial condition and restrict our operating flexibility. In January 2009, we entered into an asset-based senior secured revolving credit facility. In addition to customary terms and conditions, we are required to maintain greater than $90.0 million in book value of inventory and have excess availability of more than 10 percent of the borrowing base or $6.0 million, whichever is less. We currently have $25.9 million outstanding under this facility, which includes $6.9 million in stand-by letters of credit. In the event we are required to draw down further on this facility, our debt will increase and may become substantial relative to our cash position. In the event that we have substantial indebtedness, then our business may be negatively impacted. For example, we may become more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements may be limited; a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations may be required to service our debt; and our flexibility to react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited. If we are unable to satisfy our debt service requirements, we may default under this facility. If we default or breach our obligations, the lender may take actions that include increasing the interest rate on outstanding obligations, discontinuing making advances and accelerating our obligations. 9 Table of Contents Our stock could be delisted if we fail to satisfy the NASDAQ rules relating to minimum share price. Our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”). Under NASDAQ rules, our stock price must remain at or above $1.00 per share for continued listing. If we are unable to maintain a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period of 30 consecutive business days, our common stock could be subject to delisting. Given the current market conditions, NASDAQ has determined to suspend enforcement of the bid price of publicly held shares requirements for listed companies through April 19, 2009, but there is no guarantee that this suspension will be extended. Delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock, and reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing. In addition, delisting could also result in the loss of confidence of our suppliers and current or prospective employees. Our business could be negatively impacted by changes in the labor market and our cost of doing business could increase as a result of changes in federal, state or local regulations. Our performance is dependent on attracting and retaining a large number of quality associates. Many of those associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to meet labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to factors we cannot control such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, workers compensation costs and changing demographics. Changes that adversely impact our ability to attract and retain quality associates could adversely affect our performance. In addition, changes in the federal or state minimum wage, living wage requirements or changes in other wage or workplace regulations, including, for example, health care, employee leave or unionization regulations, could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Existing or future government regulation could harm our business or may cause us to incur additional costs associated with compliance. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including but not limited to, laws and regulations relating to labor and employment, U.S. customs and consumer product safety, including the recently enacted Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act (the “CPSIA”). The CPSIA created more stringent safety requirements related to lead and phthalates content in children’s products. The CPSIA regulates the future manufacture of these items and existing inventories and may cause us to incur losses if we offer for sale or sell any non-compliant items. Failure to comply with the various regulations applicable to us may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties and increased cost of regulatory compliance. These current and any future laws and regulations could harm our business, results of operation and financial condition. An increase in our sales, profitability and cash flow will depend on our ability to increase the number of stores we operate and increase the productivity and profitability of our existing stores. If we are unable to increase the number of stores we operate and increase the productivity and profitability of existing stores, our ability to increase sales, profitability and cash flow could be significantly impaired. To the extent we are unable to open new stores as we planned, our sales growth would come only from increases in comparable store sales. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our comparable store sales, improve our margin or reduce costs as a percentage of sales. Growth in profitability in that case would depend significantly on our ability to increase margin or reduce costs as a percentage of sales. Further, as we implement new initiatives to reduce the cost of operating our stores, sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. 10 Table of Contents There are many factors, some of which are beyond our control, which could impact our ability to increase the number of stores we operate and increase store productivity and profitability. These factors include, but are not limited to: • our ability to identify suitable markets in which to expand, • the availability of suitable sites for additional stores, • our ability to negotiate acceptable lease terms for sites we identify, • the availability of acceptable financing to support our growth, and • our ability to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified general managers and other store personnel. Our success will depend on how well we manage growth. Even if we are able to expand our store base and increase the productivity and profitability of existing stores, we may experience problems relating to growth, which may prevent any significant increase in profitability or negatively impact our cash flow. For example: • The costs of opening and operating new stores, especially in new markets, may offset the increased sales generated by the additional stores. • The opening of additional stores in an existing market could reduce net sales from existing stores in that market. • The opening of stores in new markets may present competitive and merchandising challenges that are different than those we face in existing markets. • The closing or relocation of under-performing stores may result in us retaining liability for outstanding lease obligations. • Our growth may outpace our ability to expand, upgrade and improve administrative, operational and management systems, controls and resources. • Our suppliers may be unable to meet increased demand for merchandise as a result of the additional stores and increased productivity of our existing stores. • We may be unable to expand existing distribution capabilities, or employ third-party distribution services on a cost-effective basis, to provide sufficient merchandise for sale by our new stores. Our real estate strategy may not result in improved profitability. In June 2008, we announced results of our real estate portfolio review. We continue to review our portfolio. As a result of this ongoing review, and in light of the macro-environment for retailing, we may determine to exit certain markets where we cannot achieve operating efficiencies and may reduce new store openings in the future. The estimated costs and charges associated with these actions that we may incur may vary materially based on various factors, including but not limited to, timing in execution, the outcome of negotiations with landlords and other third parties and changes in management’s assumptions and projections. As a result of these events and circumstances, delays and unexpected costs may occur, which could result in our not realizing any or all of the anticipated benefits of this strategy. There is no assurance that changes in our real estate strategy will lead to improved operating results. 11 Table of Contents A weak fourth quarter would have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the year. Our business is highly seasonal. Due to the importance of our peak selling season, which includes the Fall and Winter holiday seasons, the fourth quarter has historically contributed, and is expected to continue to contribute, a significant portion of our net income for the entire year. In anticipation of increased sales activity during the fourth quarter, we incur significant additional expense both prior to and during the fourth quarter. These expenses may include acquisition of additional inventory, advertising, in-store promotions, seasonal staffing needs and other similar items. As a result, any factors negatively affecting us during the fourth quarter of any year, including adverse weather and unfavorable economic conditions, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the entire year. Our quarterly results fluctuate due to a variety of factors and are not necessarily a meaningful indicator of future performance. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future depending upon a variety of factors, including, among other things: • the mix of merchandise sold, • the timing and level of markdowns, • promotional events and changes in advertising, • adverse weather conditions (particularly on weekends), • store openings, closings, remodels or relocations, • length and timing of the holiday seasons, • merchandise in-stock positions, • competitive factors, and • general economic and political conditions. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of past operating results cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. If our operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our securities would likely decline. Our success depends on key personnel whom we may not be able to retain or hire. We are dependent on the services, abilities and experience of our senior management team. The loss of the services of senior executives and any general instability in the composition of our senior management team could have a negative impact on our ability to execute on our business and operating strategy. In addition, success in the future is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, including store general managers. Any inability to do so may have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. Competition could negatively impact our operations. The arts and crafts industry is highly competitive. We currently compete against a diverse group of retailers, including multi-store arts and crafts retailers, mass merchandisers, small local specialty retailers, mail order vendors and a variety of other retailers. Almost all of our stores face aggressive competition in their market area from one or more of our major competitors. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and operate more stores than we do. We compete with these and other retailers for customers, suitable retail locations, suppliers and qualified associates. Moreover, alternative methods of selling crafts, such as through e-commerce or direct marketing, result in additional competitors and increased price competition because our customers can comparison shop more readily. In addition, we ultimately compete for our customers against alternative sources of entertainment and leisure independent of the arts and crafts industry. Thus competition could result in price reductions or a loss of market share. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully anticipate changes in merchandise trends and consumer demands and our failure to do so may lead to lost sales. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing merchandise trends and consumer demand. Accordingly, any delay or failure by us in identifying and correctly responding to changing merchandise trends and consumer demand could adversely affect consumer acceptance of the merchandise in our stores. In addition, we make decisions regarding merchandise well in advance of each of the seasons in which such merchandise will be sold. Significant deviations from projected demand for merchandise would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, either from lost sales due to insufficient inventory or lower margin due to the need to mark down excess inventory. The failure to accurately respond to inventory requirements may have a material adverse impact on our results from operations. While our buyers place initial orders of our merchandise, we depend upon our in-store department managers to reorder the majority of our merchandise. The failure of our buyers or department managers to accurately respond to inventory requirements could adversely affect consumer acceptance of the merchandise in our stores and negatively impact sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we misjudge the market, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns, which would have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. Conversely, shortages of key items could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Unfavorable consumer response to our promotional strategy could materially and adversely affect our sales, profitability and cash flow. Advertising promotions, price, quality and value have a significant impact on consumers’ shopping decisions. If we misjudge consumer response to our promotional strategies, our financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. Adverse events could have a greater impact on us than if we had a larger store base in different geographical regions. As of January 3, 2009, we operated a chain of 132 stores. Because our current and planned stores are located in the Eastern United States, the effect on us of adverse events in this region (such as weather or unfavorable regional economic conditions) may be greater than if our stores were more geographically dispersed. Because overhead costs are spread over a smaller store base, increases in our selling, general and administrative expenses could affect our profitability more negatively than if we had a larger store base. One or more unsuccessful new stores, or a decline in sales at an existing store, will have a more significant effect on our results of operations than if we had a larger store base. A disruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have a crisis mangagement plan, we do not have a formal disaster recovery or business continuity plan, and could therefore experience a significant business interruption in the event of a natural disaster, catastrophic event or other similar event. The occurrence of such events or other unanticipated problems could cause interruptions or delays in our business, supply chain or infrastructure which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In fiscal 2008, approximately 38 percent of our merchandise units sold were fulfilled through our distribution centers. In addition, our vendors may also be subject to business interruptions from such events. Significant changes to our supply chain or other operations could have a material adverse impact on our results. Our back-up operations and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to cover or compensate us for losses that may occur. 13 Table of Contents Significant changes in our relationships with key suppliers may adversely impact our business. Our performance depends on our ability to purchase merchandise and services at sufficient levels at competitive prices. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to maintain a good relationship with our suppliers. SBAR’S, one of our suppliers, accounted for approximately 18 percent of the aggregate dollar volume of our purchases in fiscal 2008. Generally, we do not have any long-term purchase agreements or other contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could discontinue selling to us at any time. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities or on terms acceptable to us in the future, or be able to develop relationships with new vendors to replace discontinued vendors. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise or services in the future or the loss of one or more key vendors and our failure to replace any one or more of them may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our smaller vendors generally have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories, and some of our vendors have limited the distribution of their merchandise in the past. These vendors may be susceptible to cash flow problems, downturns in economic conditions, production difficulties, quality control issues and difficulty delivering agreed-upon quantities on schedule. We also cannot assure you that we would be able, if necessary, to return product to these vendors, obtain refunds of our purchase price or obtain reimbursement or indemnification from any of our vendors if their products prove defective. In addition, any significant change in the payment terms that we have with our key suppliers could adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. Our reliance on imported merchandise may negatively impact our business in the event of disruptions or increased costs associated with obtaining such merchandise. We have in recent years placed increased emphasis on obtaining floral, seasonal and other items from overseas vendors, with approximately 13 percent of all of our merchandise being purchased directly by us from overseas vendors in fiscal 2008. In addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase their merchandise from foreign sources. China is the source of a substantial majority of our imported merchandise. Because a large percentage of our merchandise is manufactured or sourced abroad, we are required to order these products further in advance than would be the case if these products were manufactured domestically. Risks associated with our reliance on imported merchandise include, but are not limited to: • Disruptions in the flow of imported goods because of factors such as: • Raw material shortages, factory consolidations, work stoppages, strikes and political unrest; • The inability of vendors to secure adequate credit facilities; • Problems with trans-ocean shipping, including storage of shipping containers; and • Global or international economic uncertainties, crises or disputes. • Increases in the cost of purchasing or shipping imported merchandise that may result from: • Increases in shipping rates imposed by trans-ocean carriers; • Changes in currency exchange rates and local economic conditions, including inflation; • Failure of the United States to maintain normal trade relations with China; and • Import duties, quotas and other trade sanctions. A disruption in supply of our imported merchandise, or the imposition of additional costs of purchasing or shipping imported merchandise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations unless and until alternative supply arrangements are secured. Products from alternative sources may be of lesser quality or more expensive than those we currently purchase, resulting in a loss of sales or profit. 14 Table of Contents Our information technology may prove inadequate. We depend on our information technology systems for many aspects of our business. Some of our key software has been developed by our own programmers and this software may not be easily integrated with other software and systems. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if our systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, integrate or expand upon our existing systems. Moreover, we may not be able to implement automated replenishment or realize any benefits from this system in the anticipated timeframe. We may fail to properly optimize the effectiveness of these systems, or to adequately implement, support and maintain the systems, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. An increase in the cost of fuel oil and oil-based products could impact our earnings and margin. Prices for oil fluctuated dramatically in fiscal 2008. These fluctuations impact our distribution costs and the distribution costs of our vendors. If the price of fuel increases, our distribution costs will increase which could impact our earnings. In addition, many of the products we sell, such as paints, are oil-based. If the price of oil continues to increase, the price of the oil-based products we purchase and sell may increase, which could impact our margin. Terrorist attacks and threats or actual war may impact all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs and stock price in unpredictable ways. Terrorist attacks in the United States, as well as future events occurring in response to or in connection with them, including, without limitation, future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies or military or trade disruptions impacting our domestic or foreign suppliers of merchandise, may impact our operations, including, among other things, causing delays or losses in the delivery of merchandise to us and decreased sales of the products we carry. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and global financial markets and economy. They also could result in a deepening of the economic recession in the United States or abroad. These events could also temporarily increase demand for our products as consumers respond by traveling less and engaging in home-based leisure activities which could contribute to a temporary increase in our sales which may not be sustainable. Any of these occurrences could have a significant impact on our operating results, revenues and costs and may result in the volatility of the market price for our common stock. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers are as follows: Name Age Position Rick A. Lepley 58 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Joseph A. Jeffries 43 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Michael G. Zawoysky 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amy Rhoades 37 Vice President and General Counsel 15 Table of Contents Mr. Lepley has served as Chief Executive Officer and a director of the Company since June 2006, and President of the Company since June 2007. Previously, Mr. Lepley was Executive Vice President of North American Retail for Office Depot, Inc., a global supplier of office products and services, a position he held from March 2004 to April 2006. Mr. Lepley was President, Office Depot Japan from May 2001 to March 2004 and was responsible for all of that company’s operations in Japan. From 1994 to 2000, Mr. Lepley served as founder and President of Retail Investment Concepts, Inc., an independent retailer and Office Depot licensee for Eastern Europe. From 1982 to 1993, Mr. Lepley was employed by Mitsubishi Motor Sales of America, Inc., the exclusive U.S. distributor of Mitsubishi Motors-brand cars and vehicles, where he held various positions, including Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing, and was responsible for more than 500 Mitsubishi Motors dealerships in the United States. He was one of 11 executives who founded Mitsubishi Motor Sales of America, Inc. in 1982. Mr. Jeffries has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since August 2008. He joined the Company in November 2007 as its Executive Vice President of Operations. Previously, Mr. Jeffries served as Vice President, Store Operations, Space Planning and Visual Merchandising for Office Depot, Inc., a global supplier of office products and services, a position he held from 2004 to November 2007. During 2004 and 2005, he also served as Vice President, Store and Copy Center Operations of Office Depot. From 1999 to 2003, Mr. Jeffries served in the following capacities at Office Depot: Director, Store Prototype Development; Director, Store Operations; and Senior Manager, Store Processes. Prior to his employment with Office Depot, Mr. Jeffries held management positions with Home Quarters Warehouse, Inc., a home improvement retail chain. Mr. Zawoysky has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since September 2008. He joined the Company as its Vice President of Financial Planning and Analysis in March 2007 and served as Acting Chief Financial Officer from June 2008 to September 2008. Previously, he served in various positions with Foot Locker, Inc., the national specialty athletic retailer, most recently as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Foot Locker Europe from April 2004 to September 2006, Chief Operating Officer of FootLocker.com. from March 2003 to April 2004 and Chief Financial Officer of FootLocker.com from November 2000 to March 2003. Ms. Rhoades has served as Vice President and General Counsel of the Company since July 2006. From April 2003 to July 2006, Ms. Rhoades was an attorney at the law firm of Blank Rome LLP. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 16 Table of Contents 