ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An increase in our sales, profitability and cash flow will depend on our ability to increase the number of stores we operate and increase the productivity and profitability of our existing stores. Key components of our operating strategy are to increase the number of stores we operate and increase the productivity and profitability of our existing stores. If we are unable to implement this strategy, our ability to increase our sales, profitability and cash flow could be significantly impaired. To the extent we are unable to open new stores as planned, our sales growth would come only from increases in comparable store sales. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our comparable store sales, improve our margins or reduce costs as a percentage of sales. Growth in profitability in that case would depend significantly on our ability to increase margins or reduce our costs as a percentage of sales. Further, as we implement new initiatives to reduce the cost of operating our stores, our sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. In particular, we are currently evaluating our store model as it relates to levels of staffing and compensation. There can be no assurance as to whether and to what extent a new store format will be successful. There are many factors, some of which are beyond our control, which could impact our ability to implement our strategy to increase productivity and profitability of our current and future store locations. These factors include: • our ability to identify suitable markets in which to expand, • the availability of suitable sites for additional stores, • the ability to negotiate acceptable lease terms for sites we identify, • the availability of acceptable financing to support our growth, • our ability to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified general managers and other store personnel, which ability may be impacted by changes to store personnel compensation and staffing, and • the effectiveness of our advertising strategies. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent or detect fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent or detect fraud could harm our business. We continue to evaluate our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition or results. 12 Table of Contents Our success will depend on how well we manage our growth. Even if we are able to implement, to a significant degree, our operating strategies of expanding our store base and increasing the productivity and profitability of our existing stores, we may experience problems relating to our growth, which may prevent any significant increase in profitability or negatively impact our cash flow. For example: • The costs of opening and operating new stores may offset the increased sales generated by the additional stores; • The opening of additional stores in an existing market could reduce net sales from existing stores in that market; • The opening of stores in new geographic markets may present competitive and merchandising challenges that are different than those we face in our existing geographic markets; • The closing or relocation of under-performing stores may result in us retaining liability for outstanding lease obligations; • Our growth may outpace our ability to expand, upgrade and improve our administrative, operational and management systems, controls and resources; • Our suppliers may be unable to meet our increased demand for merchandise as a result of the additional stores and increased productivity of our existing stores; and • We may be unable to expand our existing distribution capabilities, or employ third-party distribution services on a cost-effective basis, to provide sufficient merchandise for sale by our new stores. A weak fourth quarter would have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the year. Our business is affected by the seasonality pattern common to most retailers. Due to the importance of our peak selling season, which includes Fall/Halloween, Thanksgiving and Christmas, the fourth quarter has historically contributed, and is expected to continue to contribute, a significant portion of our net income for the entire year. In anticipation of increased sales activity during the fourth quarter, we incur significant additional expense both prior to and during the fourth quarter. These expenses may include acquisition of additional inventory, advertising, in-store promotions, seasonal staffing needs and 13 Table of Contents other similar items. As a result, any factors negatively affecting us during the fourth quarter of any year, including adverse weather and unfavorable economic conditions, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the entire year. Our quarterly results fluctuate due to a variety of factors and are not a meaningful indicator of future performance. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future depending upon a variety of factors, including, among other things: • the mix of merchandise sold, • the timing and level of markdowns, • promotional events and changes in advertising, • adverse weather conditions, • store openings and closings, • remodels or relocations of our stores, • length and timing of the holiday seasons, • competitive factors, and • general economic and political conditions. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of past operating results cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our securities would likely decline. Our success depends on key personnel whom we may not be able to retain or hire. We are dependent on the services, abilities and experience of our senior management team. The year 2006 involved substantial change in our senior management team. On June 1, 2006, we appointed Rick A. Lepley as our new Chief Executive Officer. On September 13, 2006, we appointed Marc Katz as our new Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of senior executives and any general instability in the composition of our senior management team could have a negative impact on our ability to execute on our business and operating strategy. Our business may be impacted by the familiarity of newly appointed executives with our business, and their abilities to develop relationships with each other, our team members and vendors and to implement or change our business and operating strategy. In addition, our success in the future is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, including general managers. Any inability to do so may have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. We face an extremely competitive retail business market. The arts and crafts retailing business is highly competitive. We currently compete against a diverse group of retailers, including multi-store arts and crafts retailers, mass merchandisers, small local 14 Table of Contents specialty retailers, mail order vendors, hardware stores and a variety of other retailers. Almost all of our stores face aggressive competition in their market area from one or more of our major competitors. In addition, alternative methods of selling crafts, such as over the Internet or direct marketing, could result in additional future competitors and increased price competition because our customers could more readily comparison shop. Some of our competitors, particularly the mass merchandisers and national arts and crafts chains, have substantially greater financial resources and operate more stores than we do. We also compete with these and other retailers for customers, suitable retail locations, suppliers and qualified employees and management personnel. Moreover, increased competition may result in potential or actual litigation between us and our competitors relating to such activities as competitive sales and hiring practices, exclusive relationships with key suppliers and manufacturers and other matters. As a result, increased competition may adversely affect our future financial performance, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively in the future. We may not be able to successfully anticipate changes in merchandise trends and consumer demands and our failure to do so may lead to loss of sales and the closing of under-performing stores. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing merchandise trends and consumer demand. Accordingly, any delay or failure by us in identifying and correctly responding to changing merchandise trends and consumer demand could adversely affect consumer acceptance of the merchandise in our stores. In addition, we make decisions regarding merchandise well in advance of each of the seasons in which such merchandise will be sold. Significant deviations from projected demand for merchandise would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, either from lost sales due to insufficient inventory or lower margins due to the need to mark down excess inventory. A material decline in sales and other adverse conditions resulting from our failure to accurately anticipate changes in merchandise trends and consumer demands may require us to close under-performing stores. Closing stores would subject us to additional costs including, but not limited to, taking reserves on impaired assets, loss of customer goodwill and costs associated with outstanding lease obligations. Unexpected consumer response to changes in our advertising strategy could materially and adversely affect our sales, profitability and cash flow. Advertising promotions have a significant impact on consumers’ shopping decisions. We are in the process of experimenting with the reach, frequency and timing of our print advertisements, as well as the overall visual presentation. During the fourth quarter of 2006, we moved approximately 75% of our print advertising from mid-week, varying between Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, to Sunday. We are still analyzing the results from these changes and are unable to predict what effect these changes will have on our business. In addition, we may from time to time change our other promotional activities. If we misjudge consumer response to these changes, our financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. Because of our small store base adverse events could have a greater impact on us than if we had a larger store base. As of December 31, 2006, we operated a chain of 122 stores. Because our current and planned stores are located in the eastern United States, the effect on us of adverse events in this region (such as weather or unfavorable regional economic conditions) may be greater than if our stores were more 15 Table of Contents geographically dispersed. Because overhead costs are spread over a smaller store base, increases in our general and administrative expenses could affect our profitability more negatively than if we had a larger store base. Due to our relatively small store base, one or more unsuccessful new stores, or a decline in sales at an existing store, will have a more significant effect on our results of operations than would be the case if we had a larger store base. A disruption in the operations of our distribution center could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our distribution center in suburban Philadelphia currently handles approximately 37% of the merchandise sold in our stores. As part of our efforts to improve operating efficiencies, we are implementing new processes within our supply chain, including routing, or cross-docking, increased amounts of merchandise and additional SKUs through our distribution center. Significant changes to our supply chain could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Our distribution center, and thus our distribution operations, is vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, break-ins and similar events. We have no formal disaster recovery plan for our distribution center. The occurrence of unanticipated problems at our distribution center, all of which may not be covered by insurance, could cause interruptions or delays in our business which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a number of key vendors to supply our merchandise, and the loss of any one of our key vendors may result in a loss of sales and significantly harm our operating results. Our performance depends on our ability to purchase our merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to maintain a good relationship with our suppliers. SBAR’S, one of our suppliers, accounted for approximately 22% of the aggregate dollar volume of our purchases in 2006. We do not have any long-term purchase agreements or other contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor or distributor could discontinue selling to us at any time. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities or on terms acceptable to us in the future, or be able to develop relationships with new vendors to replace discontinued vendors. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise in the future or the loss of one or more key vendors and our failure to replace any one or more of them may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our smaller vendors generally have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories, and some of our vendors have limited the distribution of their merchandise in the past. These vendors may be susceptible to cash flow problems, downturns in economic conditions, production difficulties, quality control issues and difficulty delivering agreed-upon quantities on schedule. We also cannot assure you that we would be able, if necessary, to return product to these vendors and obtain refunds of our purchase price or obtain reimbursement or indemnification from any of our vendors if their products prove defective. We face risks associated with sourcing and obtaining merchandise from foreign sources. We have in recent years placed increased emphasis on obtaining floral, seasonal and other items from overseas vendors, with approximately 13% of all of our merchandise being purchased directly by us from overseas vendors in 2006. In addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase a portion of their merchandise from foreign sources. Our future success will depend in large measure upon our ability to 16 Table of Contents maintain our existing foreign supplier relationships and to develop new ones. While we rely on our long-term relationships with our foreign vendors, we have no long-term contracts with them. Virtually all of the merchandise which we purchase from foreign sources is manufactured in the People’s Republic of China. Many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs and quotas that may limit the quantity of some types of goods which we may import into the United States. Our dependence on foreign imports also makes us vulnerable to risks associated with products manufactured abroad, including, among other things: • changes in import duties, tariffs and quotas, • loss of “most favored nation” trading status by the United States in relation to a particular foreign country, including the People’s Republic of China, • work stoppages, • delays in shipments, • revaluation of the Chinese currency and fluctuations in exchange rates, • freight cost increases, • economic uncertainties, including inflation, • foreign government political unrest, and • trade restrictions, including the United States retaliating against protectionist foreign trade practices. If any of these or other factors were to render the conduct of business in particular countries undesirable or impractical, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because we would have difficulty sourcing the merchandise we need to remain competitive. An interruption or delay in supply from our foreign sources, or the imposition of additional duties, taxes or other charges on these imports could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations unless and until alternative supply arrangements are secured. Products from alternative sources may be of lesser quality and/or more expensive than those we currently purchase, resulting in a loss of sales and/or profit to us. We face risks relating to inventory. We depend upon our in-store department managers to reorder the majority of our merchandise. The failure of these department managers to accurately respond to inventory requirements could adversely affect consumer acceptance of the merchandise in our stores and negatively impact sales which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we misjudge the market, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns, which would have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. Conversely, shortages of key items could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, we 17 Table of Contents conduct a physical inventory in our stores once a year, and quarterly results are based on an estimated gross margin and accrual for estimated inventory shrinkage. Our information technology may prove inadequate. We depend on our information technology systems for many aspects of our business. Some of our key software has been developed by our own programmers and this software may not be easily integrated with other software and systems. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if our systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, integrate or expand upon our systems, particularly in light of our intention to significantly increase the number of stores that we operate. An increase in the cost of fuel oil and oil-based products could impact our earnings and margins. Prices for oil have fluctuated dramatically in the past and rose substantially in 2006. These fluctuations impact our distribution costs and the distribution costs of our vendors. If the price of fuel oil continues to increase, our distribution costs will increase, which could impact our earnings. In addition, many of the products we sell, such as paints, are oil-based. If the price of oil continues to increase, the price of the oil-based products we purchase and sell may increase, which could impact our margins. Terrorist attacks and threats or actual war may impact all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs and stock price in unpredictable ways. Terrorist attacks in the United States, as well as future events occurring in response or in connection to them, including, without limitation, future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies or military or trade disruptions impacting our domestic or foreign suppliers of merchandise, may impact our operations, including, among other things, causing delays or losses in the delivery of merchandise to us and decreased sales of the products we carry. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. They also could result in a deepening of any economic recession in the United States or abroad. These events could also temporarily increase demand for our products as consumers respond by traveling less and engaging in home-based leisure activities which could contribute to a temporary increase in our sales which may not be sustainable. Any of these occurrences could have a significant impact on our operating results, revenues and costs and may result in the volatility of the market price for our common stock. 18 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers are as follows: Name Age Position Rick A. Lepley 56 Chief Executive Officer and Director Lawrence H. Fine 53 President, Chief Operating Officer and Director Marc Katz 42 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amy Rhoades 35 Vice President and General Counsel Mr. Lepley has served as Chief Executive Officer and a director of the Company since June 2006. Previously, Mr. Lepley was Executive Vice President of North American Retail for Office Depot, Inc., global supplier of office products and services, a position he held from March 2004 to April 2006. Mr. Lepley was President, Office Depot Japan from May 2001 to March 2004 and was responsible for all of that company’s operations in Japan. From 1994 to 2000, Mr. Lepley served as founder and President of Retail Investment Concepts, Inc., an independent retailer and Office Depot licensee for Eastern Europe. From 1982 to 1993, Mr. Lepley was employed by Mitsubishi Motor Sales of America, Inc., the exclusive U.S. distributor of Mitsubishi Motors-brand cars and vehicles, where he held various positions, including Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing, and was responsible for more than 500 Mitsubishi Motors dealerships in the United States. He was one of 11 executives who founded Mitsubishi Motor Sales of America, Inc. in 1982. Mr. Fine has served as the President of the Company since June 2001, a director since August 2002 and Chief Operating Officer since February 2003. Previously, Mr. Fine was Executive Vice President – General Merchandise Manager for arts and crafts retailer Michaels Stores, Inc., a position he held since November 1996. From 1995 until joining Michaels in November 1996, he was Senior Vice President of Merchandising for Party City Corp., a specialty retailer of party merchandise. Prior to joining Party City, Mr. Fine held a variety of merchandising positions with the Jamesway Corporation, a retail mass-merchandiser, for nearly 16 years. Mr. Katz has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since September 2006. Previously, Mr. Katz was Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Foot Locker, Inc., a specialty athletic retailer, a position he held from May 2003 to September 2006. Mr. Katz served as Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Foot Locker from July 2002 to May 2003. From 1997 to 2002, Mr. Katz served in the following capacities at the financial services center of Foot Locker: Vice President and Controller from July 2001 to July 2002; Controller from December 1999 to July 2001; Retail Controller from October 1997 to December 1999; and Director Inventory Control from June 1997 to October 1997. Prior to his employment with Foot Locker, Mr. Katz served for eight years at The May Department Stores Company, an operator of department store chains, in various financial positions. Ms. Rhoades has served as Vice President and General Counsel of the Company since July 2006. From April 2003 to July 2006, Ms. Rhoades was an attorney at Blank Rome LLP, a law firm based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Ms. Rhoades joined Blank Rome as a summer associate in 2001. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. 19 Table of Contents None. 