Item 1A. Risk Factors General Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate Economic and regulatory changes that impact the real estate market generally may cause our operating results to suffer and decrease the value of our real estate properties. Our operating results will be subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real estate, including: • changes in general or local economic conditions; 5 • changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area; • changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds, which may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive; • changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws; and • periods of high interest rates and tight money supply. These and other reasons may prevent us from being profitable or from realizing growth or maintaining the value of our real estate properties. Properties that have significant vacancies could be difficult to sell, which could diminish our return on those properties. A property may incur vacancies either by the continued default of tenants under their leases or the expiration of tenant leases. If vacancies continue for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash available to distribute to stockholders. In addition, because properties’ market values depend principally upon the value of the properties’ leases, the resale value of properties with high or prolonged vacancies could suffer, which could further reduce the return to our stockholders. We depend on tenants for our revenue, and accordingly, lease terminations and/or tenant defaults could reduce our net income and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The success of our investments materially depends on the financial stability of our tenants. A default or termination by a significant tenant on its lease payments to us would cause us to lose the revenue associated with such lease and require us to find an alternative source of revenue to meet mortgage payments and prevent a foreclosure if the property is subject to a mortgage. In the event of a tenant default or bankruptcy, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-letting our property. If significant leases are terminated or defaulted upon, we may be unable to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. These events could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to stockholders. We rely on certain tenants. As of December 31, 2005, our most substantial tenants based on rental income were BP Amoco (approximately 5%), Leo Burnett (approximately 5%), NASA (approximately 4%), and US Bancorp (approximately 4%). The revenues generated by the properties these tenants occupy are substantially reliant upon the financial condition of these tenants and, accordingly, any event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or a general downturn in the business of any of these tenants may result in the failure or delay of such tenant’s rental payments which may have a substantial adverse effect on our financial performance. Our inability to sell a property at the time we plan could limit our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders. General economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates, and other factors, including supply and demand, all of which are beyond our control, affect the real estate market. We may be unable to sell a property for the price, on the terms, or within the time frame we would like. That inability could reduce our cash flow and cause our results of operations to suffer, limiting our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Increases in property operating expenses may adversely affect your returns. In the event that we experience significant increases in property operating expenses, including property taxes, insurance, and other costs at our properties, that are not reimbursable by our tenants, our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders may be reduced. 6 We may not have funding for future leasing costs. When a tenant at one of our properties does not renew its lease or otherwise vacates its space in one of our buildings, it is likely that in order to attract one or more new tenants, we will be required to expend substantial funds for tenant improvements, leasing commissions, and tenant refurbishments to the vacated space. Substantially all of our net offering proceeds have been invested in real estate properties, and we do not maintain permanent working capital reserves. We also have no identified funding source (other than our existing lines of credit) to provide funds which may be required in the future for tenant improvements, leasing commissions, and tenant refurbishments in order to attract new tenants. We cannot assure you that we will have proceeds from the sale of our dividend reinvestment plan shares or any sources of funding available to us for such purposes in the future. Uncertain market conditions and our advisors’ broad discretion relating to the future disposition of properties could adversely affect the return on your investment. We will generally hold our real properties until such time as our advisors determine that a sale or other disposition appears to be advantageous to achieve our investment objectives or until it appears that such objectives will not be met. Otherwise, our advisors, subject to the approval of our board of directors, may exercise their discretion as to whether and when to sell a property, and we will have no obligation to sell properties at any particular time, except upon a potential liquidation of the Wells REIT if we do not list our shares by January 30, 2008, unless such date is extended by a proxy vote of our stockholders. We cannot predict with any certainty the various market conditions affecting real estate investments that will exist at any particular time in the future. Due to the uncertainty of market conditions that may affect the future disposition of our properties, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sell our properties at a profit in the future. Accordingly, the extent to which you will receive cash distributions and realize potential appreciation on our real estate investments will be dependent upon fluctuating market conditions. Uninsured losses relating to real property or excessively expensive premiums for insurance coverage could reduce our net income. We are subject to certain types of losses, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution, or environmental matters, that are uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Insurance risks associated with potential terrorism acts could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. Additionally, mortgage lenders in some cases have begun to insist that commercial property owners purchase coverage against terrorism as a condition of providing mortgage loans. Such insurance policies may not be available at a reasonable cost, if at all, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our properties. In such instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We may not have adequate coverage for such losses. If any of our properties incur a casualty loss that is not fully insured, the value of that asset will be reduced by such uninsured loss. In addition, other than any working capital reserve or other reserves we may establish, we have no source of funding (other than our existing lines of credit) to repair or reconstruct any uninsured damaged property. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for insurance, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in lower distributions to stockholders. Our operating results may suffer because of potential development and construction delays and resultant increased costs and risks. We may acquire and develop properties, including unimproved real properties, upon which we will construct improvements. We will be subject to uncertainties associated with re-zoning for development, environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups, and our builders’ ability to build in conformity with plans, specifications, budgeted costs, and timetables. If a builder fails to perform, we may resort to legal action to rescind the purchase or the construction contract or to compel performance. A builder’s performance may also be 7 affected or delayed by conditions beyond the builder’s control. Delays in completing construction could also give tenants the right to terminate preconstruction leases. We may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to builders before they complete construction. These and other factors can result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment. In addition, we will be subject to normal lease-up risks relating to newly constructed projects. We also must rely on rental income and expense projections and estimates of the fair market value of property upon completion of construction when agreeing upon a purchase price at the time we acquire the property. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a property, and our return on our investment could suffer. Actions of our joint venture partners could reduce the returns on our joint venture investments. We have entered into joint ventures with third parties to acquire, develop, or improve properties and will likely acquire additional properties through joint venture arrangements. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other methods of investment in real estate, including, for example: • the possibility that our co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt; • that such co-venturer may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or that become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; or • that such co-venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Any of the above might subject a property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and thus reduce the returns to our investors. Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations may reduce our net income and the cash available for distributions to our stockholders. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on tenants, owners, or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may hinder our ability to sell, rent, or pledge such property as collateral for future borrowings. Compliance with new laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require us to incur material expenditures. Future laws, ordinances, or regulations may impose material environmental liability. Additionally, our tenants’ operations, the existing condition of land when we buy it, operations in the vicinity of our properties such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties may affect our properties. In addition, there are various local, state, and federal fire, health, life-safety, and similar regulations with which we may be required to comply, and which may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. Any material expenditures, fines, or damages we must pay will reduce our cash flow and ability to make distributions. Discovery of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions may decrease our revenues and limit our ability to make distributions. Under various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations, a current or previous real property owner or operator may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in such property. These costs could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures or prevent us from entering into 8 leases with prospective tenants that may be impacted by such laws. Environmental laws provide for sanctions for noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including asbestos-containing materials. Third parties may seek recovery from real property owners or operators for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of complying with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could reduce the amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. If we sell properties and provide financing to purchasers, defaults by the purchasers may decrease our cash flows and limit our ability to make distributions. In some instances, we may sell our properties by providing financing to purchasers. When we provide financing to purchasers, we will bear the risk that the purchaser may default, which could negatively impact our cash dividends to stockholders. Even in the absence of a purchaser default, the distribution of the proceeds of sales to our stockholders, or the reinvestment of proceeds in other assets, will be delayed until the promissory notes or other property we may accept upon a sale are actually paid, sold, refinanced, or otherwise disposed of. Risks Related to Ownership of Shares of Our Common Stock There is no public trading market for our shares; therefore, it will be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares. There is no current public market for our shares and we currently have no plans to list our shares on a national securities exchange or the NASDAQ National Market. Stockholders may not sell their shares unless the purchaser meets the applicable suitability and minimum purchase requirements. Our charter also prohibits the ownership of more than 9.8% of our stock, unless exempted by our board of directors, which may inhibit large investors from desiring to purchase our shares. Moreover, our share redemption program includes numerous restrictions that limit a stockholder’s ability to sell his or her shares to us, and our board of directors may amend, suspend or terminate our share redemption program at any time upon 30 days’ notice. Therefore, it will be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares promptly or at all. If a stockholder is able to sell his or her shares, it would likely be at a substantial discount to the public offering price. It is also likely that our shares would not be accepted as the primary collateral for a loan. Investors should only purchase our shares as a long-term investment due to the illiquid nature of our shares. We may be unable to pay or maintain cash distributions to our stockholders at their current levels. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of distributions to stockholders. In the future, we expect to fund distributions principally from cash flow from operations; however, while our dividend reinvestment plan continues, we may fund our distributions from the net proceeds from our dividend reinvestment plan or from borrowings. If we fund distributions from financings or the net proceeds from our dividend reinvestment plan, we will have less funds available for the acquisition of properties, and the overall return to our investors may be reduced. We can give no assurance that we will be able to pay or maintain cash distributions or increase distributions over time. Our charter limits the number of shares a person may own, which may discourage a takeover that could otherwise result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% of our outstanding common stock. This restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might otherwise provide a premium price for holders of our common stock. 9 Our charter permits our board of directors to issue stock with terms that may subordinate the rights of our common stockholders which may discourage a third party from acquiring us in a manner that could result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued common stock or preferred stock and establish the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption of any such stock. Thus, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have priority as to distributions and amounts payable upon liquidation over the rights of the holders of our common stock. Such preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might otherwise provide a premium price to holders of our common stock. If we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, the return to our stockholders would be reduced; if we become an unregistered investment company, we could not continue our business. We do not intend to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. If we were obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act that impose, among other things: • limitations on capital structure; • restrictions on specified investments; • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and • compliance with reporting, recordkeeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses. In order to maintain our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act, we must engage primarily in the business of buying real estate. To maintain compliance with the Investment Company Act exemption, we need to sell assets we would otherwise wish to retain. In addition, we may have to acquire additional income- or loss-generating assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or may have to forego opportunities to acquire interests in companies that we would otherwise want to acquire and would be important to our investment strategy. If we were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, we would be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. In addition, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. Our investors may be more likely to sustain a loss on their investment because our promoters do not have as strong an economic incentive to avoid losses as do promoters who have made significant equity investments in their company. As of December 31, 2005, our promoters had only invested approximately $200,000 in Wells REIT, primarily by one of our advisors purchasing 20,000 units of limited partnership interest in our operating partnership for $10.00 per unit before our initial public offering. Our investors may be at a greater risk of loss because our promoters do not have as much to lose from a decrease in the value of our shares as do those promoters who make more significant equity investments in their companies. Our stockholders have limited control over changes in our policies and operations, which increases the uncertainty and risks they face. Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding financing, growth, debt capitalization, and the level of distributions to our stockholders. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the stockholders. Under Maryland General Corporation Law and our 10 charter, our stockholders have a right to vote only on limited matters. Our board’s broad discretion in setting policies and our stockholders’ inability to exert control over those policies increases the uncertainty and risks they face. Our stockholders are limited in their ability to sell their shares pursuant to our share redemption program. Even though our share redemption program currently provides stockholders with the opportunity to have their shares redeemed after they have held them for a period of one year for a purchase price equal to the lesser of (1) $10 per share, or (2) the purchase price per share that they actually paid for their shares of Wells REIT, less in both instances any amounts previously distributed to them attributable to net sales proceeds from the sale of Wells REIT’s properties, stockholders should be fully aware that our share redemption program contains certain restrictions and limitations. Subject to funds being available, we currently limit the number of shares redeemed pursuant to our share redemption program as follows: (1) during any calendar year, we will not redeem in excess of 5.0% of the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the prior calendar year; and (2) in no event shall the aggregate amount of redemptions under our share redemption program exceed aggregate proceeds received from the sale of shares pursuant to our dividend reinvestment plan. In addition, the board of directors may set aside and reserve an amount determined annually by the board not to exceed 20% of the funds available for redemption during each calendar year for (1) redemptions upon the death of a stockholder (“redemptions upon death”), and (2) redemptions for certain stockholders to satisfy required minimum distribution requirements as set forth under Sections 401(a)(9), 403(b)(10), 408(a)(6), 408(b)(3), and 408(A)(c)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code (“required minimum distribution redemptions”), which will have the effect of reducing the amount of funds otherwise available for other redemption requests. Our board of directors has determined that up to 15% of funds available for redemption will be set aside and reserved for redemptions upon death and required minimum distribution redemptions during calendar year 2006. In addition, our board of directors may amend, suspend, or terminate our share redemption program at any time upon 30 days’ notice. Therefore, stockholders in Wells REIT should not assume that they will be able to sell all or any portion of their shares back to Wells REIT pursuant to our share redemption program. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Wells Management and Wells Capital’s loss of or inability to obtain key personnel could delay or hinder implementation of our investment strategies, which could limit our ability to make distributions. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contributions of Leo F. Wells, III, Douglas P. Williams, and Randall D. Fretz, each of whom would be difficult to replace. Our advisors, Wells Management and Wells Capital, do not have employment agreements with Messrs. Wells, Williams or Fretz, and they cannot guarantee that such persons will remain affiliated with them. If any of these key personnel were to cease their affiliation with our advisors, they may be unable to find suitable replacement personnel, and our operating results could suffer. We do not intend to maintain key person life insurance on any person. We believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon the ability of our advisors to hire and retain highly skilled managerial, operational and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and our advisors may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. Further, we intend to establish strategic relationships with firms that have special expertise in certain services or as to real properties in certain geographic regions. Maintaining such relationships will be important for us to effectively compete with other investors for properties in such regions. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining such relationships. If we lose or are unable to obtain the services of highly skilled personnel or do not establish or maintain appropriate strategic relationships, our ability to implement our investment strategies could be delayed or hindered, and the value of your investment may decline. Our operating performance could suffer if our advisors incur significant losses, including those losses that may result from being the general partner of other entities. We are dependent on our advisors, both of which are wholly owned subsidiaries of WREF, to select investments and conduct our operations; thus, adverse changes in the financial condition of WREF, or adverse changes to our 11 relationship with our advisors could hinder their ability to successfully manage our operations and our portfolio of investments. In addition, as a general partner in many WREF-sponsored programs, Wells Capital, one of our advisors, may have contingent liabilities for the obligations of such programs. Enforcement of such obligations against Wells Capital could result in a substantial reduction of its net worth. If such liabilities affected the level of services that Wells Capital could provide, our operations and financial performance could suffer. Payment of fees to our advisors and their affiliates will reduce cash available for investment and distribution. Our advisors and their affiliates perform services for us in connection with the selection and acquisition of our investments, the management and leasing of our properties, and the administration of our business. We will pay our advisors substantial fees for these services, which will reduce the amount of cash available for investment in properties or distribution to our stockholders. We are uncertain of our sources for funding of future capital needs. Substantially all of the gross proceeds raised in our previous public offerings have been used for investment in properties and for payment of various fees and expenses, and proceeds raised pursuant to our dividend reinvestment plan may be used for additional acquisitions or to fund share redemptions pursuant to our share redemption program. In addition, we do not anticipate that we will maintain any permanent working capital reserves. Accordingly, in the event that we develop a need for additional capital in the future for the improvement of our properties or for any other reason, we have not identified any additional sources for such funding outside of our existing lines of credit, and we cannot assure you that such sources of additional funding will be available to us for potential capital needs in the future. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to recover claims against our independent directors are limited, which could reduce our recovery and our stockholders’ recovery against them if they negligently cause us to incur losses. Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in that capacity if he performs his duties in good faith in a manner he reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our charter provides that no independent director shall be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages and that we will generally indemnify them for losses unless they are grossly negligent or engage in willful misconduct. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our independent directors than might otherwise exist under common law, which could reduce our and our stockholders’ recovery from these persons if they act in a negligent manner. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our independent directors (as well as by our other directors, officers, employees and agents) in some cases. Federal Income Tax Risks Failure to qualify as a REIT would reduce our net income and cash available for distributions. Our qualification as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet requirements regarding our organization and ownership, distributions of our income, the nature and diversification of our income and assets, and other tests imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates and/or penalties, which would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer qualify for the dividends-paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. 12 Recharacterization of sale-leaseback transactions may cause us to lose our REIT status, which would reduce the return to our stockholders. We may purchase properties and lease them back to the sellers of such properties. While we will use our best efforts to structure any such sale-leaseback transaction such that the lease will be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for federal income tax purposes, we can give no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge such characterization. In the event that any such sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and recharacterized as a financing transaction or loan for federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such property would be disallowed. If a sale-leaseback transaction was so recharacterized, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated which might cause us to fail to meet our distribution requirement described below for such year. If this were to occur, we might also fail to satisfy the tests for REIT qualification regarding the nature of our assets or types of income we derive from investments, and our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders could be limited. Stockholders may have current tax liability on distributions they elect to reinvest in our common stock. Participants in our dividend reinvestment plan will be deemed to have received, and for income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in shares of our common stock to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. In addition, participants will be treated for tax purposes as having received an additional distribution to the extent the shares are purchased at a discount to fair market value. As a result, and except with respect to tax-exempt entities, participants in our dividend reinvestment plan may have to use funds from other sources to pay the tax liability on the value of the shares of common stock they receive under the plan. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income or property. For example: • In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders (which is determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction or net capital gain). To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on the undistributed income. • We will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions we pay in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. • If we have net income from the sale of foreclosure property that we hold primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, we must pay a tax on that income at the highest corporate income tax rate. • In certain circumstances, if we acquire a property for investment purposes and subsequently sell that property, our gain would be subject to the 100% tax on “prohibited transactions.” To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions to make distributions to our stockholders, which could increase our operating costs and decrease the value of an investment in us. To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders each year 90% of our REIT taxable income (which is determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction or net capital gain). At times, we may not have sufficient funds to satisfy these distribution requirements and may need to borrow funds to maintain our REIT status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes. These borrowing needs could result from (i) differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes; (ii) the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures; (iii) the creation of reserves; or (iv) required debt or amortization 13 payments. We may need to borrow funds at times when market conditions are unfavorable. Such borrowings could increase our costs and reduce the value of our common stock. Further, borrowing to pay distributions to our stockholders may increase the likelihood that distributions exceed taxable income, which would reduce a stockholder’s basis in our stock and, to the extent distributions exceed a stockholder’s basis, the stockholder may recognize capital gain. To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to forego otherwise attractive opportunities, which could delay or hinder our ability to meet our investment objectives and lower the return to our stockholders. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy tests on an ongoing basis concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, nature of our assets and the amounts we distribute to our stockholders. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at times when it would be more advantageous to reinvest cash in our business or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect investors. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made in the provisions of the federal income tax laws applicable to investments similar to an investment in shares of the Wells REIT. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and we cannot assure you that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of our stockholders. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our properties. You are urged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the impact of recent legislation on your ownership of shares and the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on ownership of shares. Risks Associated with Debt Financing We have incurred and are likely to continue to incur mortgage and other indebtedness, which may increase our business risks. As of December 31, 2005, we had total outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.0 billion. We are likely to incur additional indebtedness to acquire properties, to fund property improvements and other capital expenditures, and for other purposes. Significant borrowings by us increase the risks of an investment in us. If there is a shortfall between the cash flow from properties and the cash flow needed to service our indebtedness, then the amount available for distributions to stockholders may be reduced. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but we would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt on behalf of the entities that own our properties. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgages or other indebtedness contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, a default on a single loan could affect multiple properties. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders will be limited. High mortgage rates may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire, our net income and the amount of cash distributions we can make. If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable rates, we may not be able to finance the purchase of properties. If we place mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance the properties when the loans 14 become due, or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when we refinance our properties, our income could be reduced. We may be unable to refinance properties. If any of these events occur, our cash flow could be reduced. This, in turn, could reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing more stock or by borrowing more money. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. When providing financing, a lender may impose restrictions on us that affect our distribution and operating policies and our ability to incur additional debt. Loan documents we enter into may contain covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, discontinue insurance coverage or replace our advisors. These or other limitations may limit our flexibility and our ability to achieve our operating plans. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our variable-rate debt payments and limit our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $1.0 billion of indebtedness. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including debt that may be incurred to refinance fixed-rate indebtedness. Increases in interest rates will increase our interest costs associated with variable-rate debt, which would reduce our cash flows and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of higher interest rates, we might sell one or more of our investments in order to repay the debt, which sale at that time might not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. High debt levels could hinder our ability to make distributions and could decrease the value of an investment in us. Our policies do not limit us from incurring additional debt until debt would exceed 50% of the value of our assets, though we may exceed this limit under some circumstances. Higher debt levels would cause us to incur higher interest charges, would result in higher debt service payments and could be accompanied by restrictive covenants. These factors could limit the amount of cash we have available to distribute and could result in a decline in the value of an investment in us. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest Our advisors will face conflicts of interest relating to the purchase and leasing of properties, and such conflicts may not be resolved in our favor, i.e., our advisors may offer us less attractive investment opportunities or we may lease to less attractive tenants, lowering the overall return to our stockholders. We rely on our advisors to identify suitable investment opportunities. Other WREF-sponsored programs also rely on Wells Capital and its affiliates for investment opportunities. Many investment opportunities would be suitable for us as well as other Wells programs. If Wells Capital directs an investment opportunity to a WREF-sponsored program, it is to offer the investment opportunity to the program for which the opportunity, in the discretion of Wells Capital, is most suitable. Likewise, we rely on Wells Management, and its affiliates, to attract and retain creditworthy tenants for some of our properties. Other WREF-sponsored programs rely on Wells Management for the same tasks. If Wells Management directs creditworthy prospective tenants to another WREF-sponsored program when it could direct such tenants to our properties, our tenant base may have more inherent risk than might otherwise be the case. Wells Capital could direct attractive investment opportunities to other entities or even make such investments for its own account. Wells Management could direct attractive tenants to other entities. Such events could result in our investing in properties that provide less attractive returns or leasing properties to tenants that are more likely to default under their leases, thus reducing the level of dividends we may be able to pay. 15 Wells Capital will face conflicts of interest relating to joint ventures that we may form with affiliates of Wells Capital, which conflicts could result in a disproportionate benefit to the other venture partners at our expense. We may enter into joint venture agreements with other Wells programs for the acquisition, development or improvement of properties. Wells Capital may have conflicts of interest in determining which Wells program should enter into any particular joint venture agreement. The co-venturer may have economic or business interests or goals that are or may become inconsistent with our business interests or goals. In addition, Wells Capital may face a conflict in structuring the terms of the relationship between our interests and the interests of the affiliated co-venturer and in managing the joint venture. Since Wells Capital and its affiliates will control both the affiliated co-venturer and, to a certain extent, us, agreements and transactions between the co-venturers with respect to any such joint venture will not have the benefit of arm’s-length negotiation of the type normally conducted between unrelated co-venturers. Co-venturers may thus benefit to our detriment. Wells Capital will face conflicts of interest relating to joint ventures with affiliates. Wells Capital, one of our advisors, is currently sponsoring a public offering on behalf of Wells REIT II, which is also a REIT. In the event that we were to enter into a joint venture with Wells REIT II or any other Wells program or joint venture, we may face certain additional risks and potential conflicts of interest. For example, securities issued by Wells public partnerships will never have an active trading market. Therefore, if we were to become listed on a national exchange, we may no longer have similar goals and objectives with respect to the resale of properties in the future. In addition, in the event that our shares are not listed on a securities exchange by January 30, 2008, our organizational documents provide for an orderly liquidation of our assets. In the event of such liquidation, any joint venture between the Wells REIT and another Wells program may be required to sell its properties at such time. Our joint venture partners may not desire to sell the properties at that time. Although the terms of any joint venture agreement between the Wells REIT and another Wells program would grant the other Wells program a right of first refusal to buy such properties, it is unlikely that any such program would have sufficient funds to exercise its right of first refusal under these circumstances. Agreements and transactions between the parties with respect to joint ventures between the Wells REIT and other Wells programs will not have the benefit of arm’s length negotiation of the type normally conducted between unrelated co-venturers. Under these joint venture agreements, none of the co-venturers may have the power to control the venture, and an impasse could be reached regarding matters pertaining to the joint venture, which might have a negative impact on the joint venture and decrease potential returns to you. In the event that a co-venturer has a right of first refusal to buy out the other co-venturer, it may be unable to finance such buy-out at that time. It may also be difficult for us to sell our interest in any such joint venture or partnership or as a co-tenant in property. In addition, to the extent that our co-venturer, partner or co-tenant is an affiliate of Wells Capital, certain conflicts of interest will exist. Our advisors, their affiliates, and our officers will face competing demands on their time, and this may cause our operations to suffer. We rely on our advisors and their affiliates for the day-to-day operation of our business. Our advisors and their affiliates, including our officers, have interests in other Wells programs and engage in other business activities. As a result, they will have conflicts of interest in allocating their time among us and other Wells programs and activities in which they are involved. During times of intense activity in other programs and ventures, they may devote less time and fewer resources to our business than are necessary or appropriate to manage our business. Our reliance on our advisors to locate suitable investments for us at times when the management of our advisors is simultaneously seeking to locate suitable investments for other affiliated programs could delay the investment of the proceeds of our dividend reinvestment plan. Delays we encounter in the selection, acquisition and development of income-producing properties would reduce the returns on our investments and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 16 Our officers and some of our directors face conflicts of interest related to the positions they hold with our advisors and their affiliates, which could hinder our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to generate returns to our investors. Our executive officers and some of our directors are also officers and directors of our advisor, our dealer- manager, and other affiliated entities. As a result, they owe fiduciary duties to these various entities and their stockholders and limited partners, which fiduciary duties may from time to time conflict with the fiduciary duties that they owe to us and our stockholders. Their loyalties to these other entities could result in actions or inactions that are detrimental to our business, which could hinder the implementation of our business strategy and our investment and leasing opportunities. If we do not successfully implement our business strategy, we may be unable to generate the cash needed to make distributions to our stockholders and to maintain or increase the value of our assets. Our advisors and their affiliates, including our officers and some of our directors, will face conflicts of interest caused by compensation arrangements with us and other WREF-sponsored programs, which could result in actions that are not in the long-term best interest of our stockholders. Our advisors and their affiliates will receive substantial fees from us. These fees could influence the advice given to us by our advisors, as well as the judgment of the affiliates of our advisors who serve as our officers or directors. Among other matters, the compensation arrangements could affect their judgment with respect to: • the continuation, renewal or enforcement of our agreements with our advisors and their affiliates, including the advisory agreements, the dealer-manager agreement, and any property management and leasing agreements; • property sales, which entitle our advisors to real estate commissions and possible success-based sale fees; • property acquisitions from other WREF-sponsored programs, which might entitle our advisors to real estate commissions and possible success-based sale fees in connection with its services for the seller; • whether and when we seek to list our common stock on a national securities exchange or the NASDAQ National Market, which listing could entitle our advisors to a success-based listing fee but could also hinder their sales efforts for other programs if the price at which our shares trade is lower than the price at which we offered shares to the public; and • whether and when we seek to sell our company or our assets, which could entitle our advisors to a success-based fee but could also hinder their sales efforts for other programs if the sales price for our company or our assets resulted in proceeds less than the amount needed to preserve our stockholders’ capital. The acquisition fees and management and leasing fees paid to our advisors, and their affiliates, will be paid irrespective of the quality of their acquisition or property-management services during the term of the related agreement. Moreover, our advisors will have considerable discretion with respect to the terms and timing of acquisition, disposition and leasing transactions. Considerations relating to their compensation from other programs could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. Our board’s loyalties to Wells REIT II (and possibly to future WREF-sponsored programs) could influence its judgment, resulting in actions that are not in our stockholders’ best interest or that result in a disproportionate benefit to another Wells program at our expense. Eight of our ten directors also serve on the board of directors of Wells REIT II and have statutory and fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and the stockholders of Wells REIT II. Therefore, the loyalties of these directors to Wells REIT II may influence the judgment of our board when considering issues for us that may affect Wells REIT II, such as the following: • Our board of directors must evaluate the performance of our advisors with respect to whether our advisors are presenting to us our fair share of investment opportunities or otherwise performing their 17 duties under our advisory agreements. If our advisors are not performing their duties for us or are giving preferential treatment to Wells REIT II, the divided loyalties of the members of our board who also serve on the board of directors of Wells REIT II could adversely affect our board’s willingness to enforce our rights under the terms of the advisory agreements or to seek a new advisor. • Our board of directors may have to make a similar evaluation with respect to the performance of Wells Management, and its affiliates, as our property manager. If Wells Management, and its affiliates, are not performing well as a property manager because of the similar services they provide for Wells REIT II, the divided loyalties of the members of our board who also serve on the board of directors of Wells REIT II could adversely affect our board’s willingness to enforce our rights under the terms of the advisory agreements or the property management agreement or to seek a new property manager. • Our board of directors approves every property acquisition we make. Decisions of our board regarding whether we should purchase a property may be influenced by the divided loyalties of the members of our board who also serve on the board of directors of Wells REIT II based on the potential that our advisors would present the opportunity to Wells REIT II if we did not pursue it. • We may enter into transactions with Wells REIT II, such as property sales and acquisitions, joint ventures, or financing arrangements. Decisions of our board regarding the terms of those transactions may be influenced by the divided loyalties of the members of our board who also serve on the board of directors of Wells REIT II. • A decision of the board or the conflicts committee regarding the timing of property sales could be influenced by concerns that the sales would compete with those of Wells REIT II. We could also face similar conflicts if our promoters sponsor additional REITs. Section 1031 Exchange Program Risks We may have increased exposure to liabilities from litigation as a result of our participation in the Section 1031 Exchange Program, which increases the risks our stockholders face. Wells Management, one of our advisors, has developed a program to facilitate real estate acquisitions for persons (1031 Participants) who seek to reinvest proceeds from a real estate sale and qualify that reinvestment for like-kind exchange treatment under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code (Section 1031 Exchange Program). The Section 1031 Exchange Program involves private placements of co-tenancy interests in real estate. There may be significant tax and securities disclosure risks associated with these private placement offerings of co-tenancy interests to 1031 Participants. For example, in the event that the Internal Revenue Service conducts an audit of the purchasers of co-tenancy interests and successfully challenges the qualification of the transaction as a like-kind exchange, purchasers of co-tenancy interests may file a lawsuit against the entity offering the co-tenancy interests and its sponsors. We may in the future agree to make certain guarantees in the event of non-sale of the co-tenancy interests in these types of offerings and could, therefore, possibly be named in or otherwise required to defend against lawsuits brought by 1031 Participants. Any amounts we are required to expend for any such litigation claims may reduce the amount of funds available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, disclosure of any such litigation may limit our future ability to borrow funds or raise additional capital. We may be subject to risks associated with future co-tenancy arrangements that are not otherwise present in a real estate investment; these risks could reduce the value of any future co-tenancy investments that we are required to make and reduce the overall return to our investors. Our participation in the Section 1031 Exchange Program would likely involve an obligation of Wells OP to purchase any co-tenancy interests in a property that remain unsold at the completion of a Section 1031 Exchange Program private placement offering. Accordingly, Wells OP could be required to purchase the unsold co-tenancy interests and thus become subject to the risks of ownership of properties in a co-tenancy arrangement with unrelated third parties. 18 Ownership of co-tenancy interests involves risks not otherwise present with an investment in real estate such as the following: • the risk that a co-tenant may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals; • the risk that a co-tenant may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives; or • the possibility that a co-tenant might become insolvent or bankrupt, which may be an event of default under mortgage loan financing documents, or allow the bankruptcy court to reject the tenants-in-common agreement or management agreement entered into by the co-tenants owning interests in the property. Any of the above might subject a property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and thus reduce the returns to our investors. In the event that our interests become adverse to those of the other co-tenants, we may not have the contractual right to purchase the co-tenancy interests from the other co-tenants. Even if we are given the opportunity to purchase such co-tenancy interests in the future, we cannot guarantee that we will have sufficient funds available at the time to purchase co-tenancy interests from the 1031 Participants. We might want to sell our co-tenancy interests in a given property at a time when the other co-tenants in such property do not desire to sell their interests. Therefore, we may not be able to sell our interest in a property at the time we would like to sell. In addition, we anticipate that it will be much more difficult to find a willing buyer for our co-tenancy interests in a property than it would be to find a buyer for a property we owned entirely. Our participation in the Section 1031 Exchange Program may limit our ability to borrow funds in the future; this could reduce the number of investments we can make and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Institutional lenders may view our obligations under agreements to acquire unsold co-tenancy interests in properties as a contingent liability against our cash or other assets, which may limit our ability to borrow funds in the future. Lenders providing lines of credit may restrict our ability to draw on our lines of credit by the amount of our potential obligation. Further, our lenders may view such obligations in such a manner as to limit our ability to borrow funds based on regulatory restrictions on lenders that limit the amount of loans they can make to any one borrower. These events could limit our operating flexibility and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Retirement Plan Risks If the fiduciary of an employee pension benefit plan subject to ERISA (such as a profit sharing, Section 401(k) or pension plan) or any other retirement plan or account fails to meet the fiduciary and other standards under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code as a result of an investment in our stock, the fiduciary could be subject to civil and criminal penalties. There are special considerations that apply to pension or profit sharing trusts or IRAs investing in shares. Fiduciaries investing the assets of a pension, profit-sharing, 401(k), Keogh, or other qualified retirement plan or the assets of an IRA in our common stock should satisfy themselves that: • the investment is consistent with their fiduciary obligations under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code; • the investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing the plan or IRA, including the plan’s investment policy; 19 • the investment satisfies the prudence and diversification requirements of Sections 404(a)(1)(B) and 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA and other applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code; • the investment will not impair the liquidity of the plan or IRA; • the investment will not produce “unrelated business taxable income” for the plan or IRA; • they will be able to value the assets of the plan annually in accordance with ERISA requirements and applicable provisions of the plan or IRA; and • the investment will not constitute a prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code. Failure to satisfy the fiduciary standards of conduct and other applicable requirements of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code may result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, and can subject the fiduciary to equitable remedies. In addition, if an investment in our shares constitutes a prohibited transaction under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code, the fiduciary who authorized or directed the investment may be subject to the imposition of excise taxes with respect to the amount invested. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There were no unresolved SEC staff comments as of December 31, 2005. 