ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Please see the “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K. Our Financial Results May Vary Significantly from Quarter to Quarter Our operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter at times in the past and may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future, which could make our future operating results difficult to predict and increase the likelihood that future results may fall below analyst or investor expectations thereby causing our stock price to decline. Such variations are due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. These factors include: • fluctuations in demand for our products, upgrades to our products, or our services; • fluctuations in the demand for and deployment of client/server applications in which our Pervasive PSQL products are designed to be embedded; • fluctuations in demand for our products due to the potential impact of uncertain economic conditions on our customer base; • seasonality of purchases and the timing of product sales and shipments; • unexpected delays in introducing new products and services or improvements to existing products and services; • new product releases, licensing models or pricing policies by our competitors; • acquisitions or mergers involving us, our competitors or customers; • impact of changes to our product distribution strategy and pricing policies; • lack of order backlog; • loss of significant customer or distributor; • changes in purchasing and/or payment practices by our distributors or other customers; • a reduction in the number of ISVs who embed our products or VARs who sell and deploy our products; • changes in the mix of domestic and international sales; • impact of changes to our geographic investment levels and business models; • changes in the cost of routine business activities; • gains or losses associated with discontinued operations; • changes in our business plan or strategy; • impact of severance charges associated with departing employees; • write-downs of the recorded book value of assets; • impact of litigation; • changes in generally accepted accounting principles in the United States; and • costs associated with the compliance requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 13 Table of Contents We also derive a significant portion of our revenues from relatively large transactions. The sales cycles for these transactions tend to be longer than the sales cycles on smaller orders. This longer sales cycle for large transactions makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which these sales will occur. Accordingly, our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the existence and timing of larger transactions. A reduction in large transactions during any quarter could materially impact our revenues. Additionally, significant portions of our expenses are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to decreases in revenues. Therefore, if our revenues are below our expectations, our operating results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected. In addition, we may change our prices, modify our distribution strategy and policies, accelerate our investment in research and development, sales or marketing efforts in response to competitive pressures or pursue new market opportunities. Any one of these activities may further limit our ability to adjust spending in response to revenue fluctuations. Seasonality May Contribute to Fluctuations in Our Quarterly Operating Results Our business has, on occasion, experienced seasonal customer buying patterns. In past years, we have generally experienced relatively weaker demand in the quarter ending September 30. Demand for our products in Europe and Japan will generally decline in the summer months because of reduced corporate buying patterns during the vacation season. We believe this pattern may occur in the future and may contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Uncertain Economic Conditions May Harm Our Operating Results Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our products and services, which in turn depends on general economic and business conditions. The nature and extent of the effect of the recent adverse economic conditions and the subsequent economic recovery on our ability to sell our products and services is uncertain. A softening of demand for our products and services caused by uncertain economic conditions may result in decreased revenues. In addition, such uncertain economic conditions may impact our customers’ ability to pay for the products they have purchased and as a consequence, we may not be able to collect our accounts receivable balances and our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. There can be no assurance we will be able to effectively promote revenue growth rates if the current uncertain economic conditions continue or deteriorate. We Generally Operate Without a Backlog We generally operate with virtually no order backlog because our software products are shipped and revenue is recognized shortly after orders are received. This lack of backlog makes product revenues in any quarter unpredictable and substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped throughout that quarter. Accordingly, a material decrease in orders in any quarter could have a materially adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Our Performance Depends on Market Acceptance of Pervasive PSQL and Our Integration Products We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the license of our Pervasive PSQL® products. Continued market acceptance of Pervasive PSQL may be influenced heavily by factors outside of our control, such as new product offerings or promotions by competitors, mergers and acquisitions of customers and competitors, the product development and deployment cycles of developers and resellers who embed or bundle our products into packaged software applications and demand for applications of the type built on our products. Market acceptance of Pervasive PSQL v11 (first released in September 2010), and future upgrades also may be influenced by factors in our control such as product quality, relative demand for feature and functionality upgrades and any future product announcements or price changes. 14 Table of Contents Revenue in fiscal year 2012 from our embedded database product, Pervasive PSQL, was consistent with fiscal year 2011 and decreased from fiscal year 2010. We believe the decrease in 2012 as compared to 2010 was primarily due to a number of relatively large transactions with database customers in fiscal year 2010. We separately disclosed one relatively large transaction with a database customer in the amount of $2.4 million in fiscal year 2010. Our embedded database and related products represented approximately 57% of our revenue in fiscal year 2012. Our integration product revenue in fiscal 2012 grew 4% over fiscal year 2011 and represents approximately 38% of our total revenue. A reduction in our embedded database business, or our inability to grow our integration products business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our Efforts to Develop and Maintain Brand Awareness of Our Products May Not be Successful Brand awareness is important given competition in the market for data infrastructure software products. We are aware of other companies that use the word “Pervasive” either in their marks alone or in combination with other words. We expect that it may be difficult or impossible to prevent third-party usage of the Pervasive name and variations of this name for competing goods and services. Competitors or others who use marks similar to our brand name may cause confusion among actual and potential customers, which could prevent us from achieving significant brand recognition. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand or incur significant expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote or maintain our brand, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We Must Succeed in the Data Management Software Market as Well as the Data Integration Software Market if We are to be Successful Our long-term strategic plan depends upon the successful development and introduction of products and solutions that address the needs of the data management software market as well as the data integration software market. In order for us to succeed in these markets, we must align strategies and objectives and focus a significant portion of our resources toward serving these markets. In addition, our success in these markets will depend on several factors, many of which are outside our control including: • growth of the data management infrastructure software market; • growth of the data integration software market; • deployment of our products by enterprises; and • emergence of substitute technologies and products. If we are unable to succeed in these markets, our business may be harmed. Defects or Disruptions in Our Ability to Deliver Our Products Across Various Platforms Could Diminish Demand for Our Service and Subject Us to Substantial Liability As we continue to provide more of our products from third party data hosting platforms, there is the potential for there to be defects or disruptions in our ability to deliver our products to our customers. These potential disruptions could result in unanticipated downtime for our customers and harm our reputation and our business. In addition, our customers may use our service in unanticipated ways that may cause a disruption in service for other customers attempting to access their data. Since our customers use our service for important aspects of their business, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our service could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. If that occurs, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. 15 Table of Contents Interruptions or Delays in Service From Our Third-Party Data Center Hosting Facilities Could Impair the Delivery of Our Service and Harm Our Business We currently serve some of our customers from third-party data center hosting platforms. Any damage to, or failure of, the third parties’ systems generally could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. If Our Security Measures Are Breached and Unauthorized Access is Obtained to a Customer’s Data or Our Data, Our Service May be Perceived as not Being Secure and We May Incur Significant Legal and Financial Exposure and Liabilities While we have derived the majority of our historical revenues from on premise delivery of our products, we are increasingly offering our products on third party hosted platforms. This method of delivery of our products involves the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. These security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, during transfer of data to additional data centers or at any time, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our data or our customers’ data. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and someone obtains unauthorized access to our customers’ data, we could incur significant liability to our customers or significant fines and sanctions by processing networks or governmental bodies, any of which could result in harm to our business and damage to our reputation. We May Face Problems in Connection With Past Acquisitions, Joint Ventures or Licensing Arrangements On July 31, 2009, we announced the completion of our purchase of assets of Greenville, South Carolina-based ChanneLinx, Inc. for total consideration of approximately $2.6 million in cash. We cannot be certain we will ultimately realize all of the anticipated benefits of this acquisition. On December 8, 2003 we announced the completion of our acquisition of privately held Data Junction Corporation, a pioneering data and application integration company based in Austin, Texas, for approximately $16.6 million in cash, net of $6.5 million of cash held by Data Junction at the time of closing of the transaction, and 5 million shares of our common stock. We cannot be certain we will ultimately realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In particular we may not realize the strategic and operational benefits we had anticipated, including greater revenue and market opportunities, maintaining industry leadership and consistent profitability. In July 2001, we formed a business venture with AG-TECH Corporation, a company developing, selling and importing packaged software, to sell and support certain of our products in Japan. AG-TECH has been engaged in the sales and support of Btrieve (predecessor to Pervasive PSQL) and Pervasive PSQL products since 1986. In conjunction with the joint venture, AG-TECH launched a new operating division staffed with specialists experienced in selling and supporting Pervasive PSQL to assume responsibility for OEM sales, packaged software sales, technical support and localization and translation of our products into Japanese. In connection with the new business venture, we obtained a less than 20% ownership interest in AG-TECH and the ability to elect one director to the AG-TECH Board of Directors. While this venture has been successful to date, we cannot be certain that this venture will continue to be successful, which could result in our inability to successfully operate in Japan. In addition, as part of our venture, we executed a three year master distributor agreement with AG-TECH, the initial term of which expired June 30, 2004. This agreement has been renewed three times, most recently for an additional three-year term which expires June 30, 2015. We cannot be certain that we will continue to be able to renew our agreement with AG-TECH on terms and conditions at least as favorable to Pervasive as those contained in our present agreement. 16 Table of Contents We May Face Problems in Connection With Future Acquisitions, Joint Ventures or Licensing Agreements In the future, we may acquire additional businesses, products and technologies, or enter into joint venture or licensing arrangements, that could complement, modify or expand our business. Our negotiations of potential acquisitions or joint ventures and our integration of acquired businesses, products or technologies could divert management time and resources. Any future acquisitions could require us to issue dilutive equity securities, reduce our cash and marketable securities, incur debt or contingent liabilities, amortize intangibles, or write-off purchased research and development and other acquisition-related expenses. If we are unable to fully integrate acquired businesses, products or technologies with our existing operations, we may not receive the intended benefits of acquisitions. In addition, market reactions to acquisitions are difficult to predict and if we do announce any future acquisitions, such market reactions may cause our stock price to fluctuate. If Our Goodwill or Amortizable Intangible Assets Become Impaired We May Be Required to Record a Significant Charge to Earnings Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. We May Face Problems in Connection With Product Line Expansion In the future, we may acquire, license or develop additional products. Future product line expansion may require us to modify or expand our business and expend significant time and resources. If we are unable to fully integrate new products with our existing operations, we may not receive the intended benefits of such product line expansion and related expenditures. A Small Number of Distributors and Sales Related to Accounting Software Applications Account for a Significant Percentage of Our Revenues The loss of a major distributor, changes in a distributor’s payment practices, changes in the financial stability of a major distributor or any reduction in orders by such distributor, including reductions due to market or competitive conditions, combined with the potential inability to replace the distributor on a timely basis, or any modifications to our pricing or distribution channel strategy could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Many of our ISVs, VARs and end users place their orders through distributors. A relatively small number of distributors have accounted for a significant percentage of our revenues. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, one distributor (our joint venture partner in Japan, AG-TECH Corporation) accounted for an aggregate of approximately 12% of our revenues, as compared to 11% in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011. Additionally, sales related to accounting software applications has, at various times, represented as much as 20% of our revenues. Furthermore, there has been consolidation taking place among our ISVs that could narrow the number of customers who sell our products. For example, one of our ISVs, The Sage Group plc, has acquired Timberline Software Corporation, Softline Limited, ACCPAC International Inc., Sage Sesame and TAS Software, five of our ISVs. The Sage Group family of companies has, at various times, represented approximately 10% of our revenues. As a result, we expect we will continue to depend on a limited number of distributors, certain of our ISV customers and sales related to accounting software applications for a significant portion of our revenues in future periods and the loss of a significant distributor or ISV customer could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, we expect that such distributors and sales related to accounting software applications will vary from period to period. Our distributors have not agreed to any minimum order requirements. Although we forecast demand and plan accordingly, if a distributor purchases excess product, we may be obligated to accept the return of some products. 17 Table of Contents We Depend on Our Indirect Sales Channel Our failure to grow our indirect sales channel or the loss of a significant number of members of our indirect channel partners would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from indirect sales through a channel consisting of ISVs, VARs, SIs, consultants and distributors. Our sales channel could be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • the failure of ISVs to develop, and the failure of ISVs and VARs to sell, products based on emerging platforms supported by us; • pressures placed on the sales channel to sell competing products; • our failure to adequately support the sales channel; • consolidation of certain of our indirect channel partners; • competing product lines offered by certain of our indirect channel partners; and • business model or licensing model changes of our channel partners or their competitors. We cannot be certain we will be able to continue to attract additional indirect channel partners or retain our current channel partners. In addition, we cannot be certain our competitors will not attempt to recruit certain of our current or future channel partners. Such competitive actions may have an adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain channel partners, which, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We May Not Be Able to Sustain or Develop Strategic Relationships From time to time, we enter into strategic collaborative relationships with other companies in areas such as product development, marketing, distribution and implementation, which allow us to realize a variety of benefits. Many of our current strategic relationships are informal, or, if written, terminable with little or no notice. Additionally, many of our current and potential strategic partners are either actual or potential competitors with us. For these reasons, we may not be able to sustain our current strategic relationships or enter into successful new strategic relationships in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We Depend on Third-Party Technology in Our Products We rely upon certain software we license from third parties, including software integrated with our internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. These third-party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The loss of, or inability to maintain or obtain any of these software licenses, could result in product development or shipment delays or the loss or deferral of revenues until we develop, identify, license and integrate equivalent software. Any delay in product development or shipment could damage our business, operating results and financial condition. We May be Unable to Protect Our Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect our software and other proprietary technology. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. However, these measures afford us only limited protection. In addition, we rely in part on “shrink wrap” and “click wrap” licenses that are not signed by the end user and, therefore, may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Therefore, our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate. We cannot be certain that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or design around the copyrights and trade secrets 18 Table of Contents owned by us. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information we regard as proprietary. Although we believe software piracy may be a problem, we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products occurs. In addition, portions of our source code have been developed in foreign countries, such as in India where we have used third-party service providers, with laws that do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We may be subjected to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment continues to grow and the functionality of products in different industry segments increasingly overlaps. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or the loss or deferral of sales or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In the event of a successful claim of intellectual property infringement against us, should we fail or be unable to either license the technology or similar technology or develop alternative technology on a timely basis, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We Must Adapt to Rapid Technological Change Our future success will depend upon our ability to continue to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that keep pace with technological developments and new industry standards and satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. Rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, uncertain product life cycles, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards characterize the market for our products. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Due to the complexities inherent in client/server and Web computing environments and in data and application integration solutions, and the performance demanded by customers for data infrastructure software products, new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. As a result, significant delays in the general availability of such new releases or significant problems in the installation or implementation of such new releases could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We have experienced delays in the past in the release of new products and new product enhancements. In the future, we may not be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products or new product enhancements that respond to technological change, evolving industry standards or customer requirements, avoiding difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of these products, or achieving market acceptance for our new products and product enhancements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our Software May Contain Errors or Defects Software products such as ours may contain errors, sometimes called “bugs,” particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. From time to time, we discover software errors in certain of our new products after their introduction. Despite our testing, current versions, new versions or enhancements of our products may still have errors after commencement of commercial shipments. Errors or defects in our products may result in loss of revenues, delay in market acceptance, diversion of development resources or injury to our brand and reputation and could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We May Become Subject to Product or Professional Services Liability Claims A product or professional services liability claim, whether or not successful, could damage our reputation and our business, operating results and financial condition. Our license and service agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product or service liability 19 Table of Contents claims. However, these contract provisions may not preclude all potential claims. Product or professional services liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. We Compete with Microsoft while Simultaneously Supporting Microsoft Technologies We currently compete with Microsoft in the market for data management products while simultaneously maintaining a working relationship with Microsoft. Microsoft has a longer operating history, a larger installed base of customers and substantially greater financial, distribution, marketing and technical resources than us. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively with Microsoft now or in the future, and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We expect that Microsoft’s commitment to and presence in the data management products market will continue to assert competitive pressure. We believe that Microsoft will continue to incorporate SQL Server database technology into its operating system software and certain of its server software offerings, possibly at no additional cost to its users. Microsoft currently licenses a royalty-free limited version of its SQL Server database technology. We believe that Microsoft will also continue to enhance its SQL Server database technology and that Microsoft will continue to invest in various sales and marketing programs involving certain of our channel partners. In addition, Microsoft has grown its presence in the software applications market. For example, they acquired Great Plains Software, a former channel partner of Pervasive, and Navision, both of which are accounting software vendors. Microsoft has also entered the customer relationship management software market. We believe that Microsoft will continue to grow its presence in the software applications market and in doing so, may have a negative impact on the financial stability of other software application vendors who use our products, or may influence other software application vendors to use Microsoft infrastructure software products instead of those available from us. We believe we must maintain a working relationship with Microsoft to achieve success. Many of our customers use Microsoft-based operating platforms. Thus, it is critical to our success that our products be closely integrated with Microsoft technologies. Notwithstanding our historical and current support of Microsoft platforms, Microsoft may in the future promote technologies and standards more directly competitive with or not compatible with our technology. We Face Significant Competition From Other Companies We encounter competition for our embedded database products primarily from large, public companies, including Microsoft, Oracle, Sybase/SAP, IBM and Progress. In particular, Sybase’s small memory footprint database software product, Adaptive Server Anywhere, and Microsoft’s product, SQL Server, directly compete with our products. The market for our integration products is highly competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology. We often compete against custom code, where potential customers have sufficient internal technical resources to develop solutions in-house. In addition, we face competition from vendors of ETL (extract, transform and load), data warehousing and application integration software products. Such competitors include IBM, Dell Boomi, Snaplogic, Oracle, Business Objects/SAP, Informatica, and Information Builders, as well as niche vendors in specific verticals and the SaaS marketplace. In addition, we compete or may compete against database vendors that currently offer, or may develop, products with functionalities that compete with our integration solutions. These products typically operate specifically with these competitors’ proprietary databases. Such competitors include IBM, Microsoft, Sybase/SAP and Oracle. And, because there are relatively low barriers to entry in the software market, we may encounter additional competition from other established or emerging companies providing integration products based on existing, new or open-source technologies. 20 Table of Contents Open-source software, such as that of open source offerings MySQL and Talend, may impact our business as interest, demand and use increases in the database and integration segments and poses a challenge to our business model. Firms adopting the open-source software model typically provide customers software produced by loosely associated groups of unpaid programmers, make licenses available to end users at nominal cost, and earn revenue on complementary services and products, without having to bear the full costs of research and development for the open-source software. To the extent competing open-source software products gain increasing market acceptance, sale of our products may decline, we may have to reduce prices we charge for our products, and our revenue and operating margins may decline. Mass adoption of open source databases in the SME market could have a material adverse impact on our database business. Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) vendors have and may continue to enter our market and could cause a change in revenue models from licensing of client/server and Web-based applications to renting applications. Our competitors may be more successful than we are in adopting these revenue models and capturing related market share. Most of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, significantly greater name recognition and a larger installed base of customers. In addition, some competitors have demonstrated a willingness to, or may willingly in the future, incur substantial losses as a result of deeply discounted product offerings or aggressive marketing campaigns. For example, Microsoft, Oracle, IBM and Sybase all currently license royalty-free limited versions of their database technologies. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of competitive products, than we can. There is also a substantial risk that changes in licensing models or announcements of competing products by competitors such as Microsoft, Oracle, Sybase/SAP, IBM, Progress, MySQL/Oracle, Ascential/IBM, Cast Iron/IBM, Boomi/Dell, Talend, Business Objects/SAP, Informatica, Information Builders or others could result in the cancellation of customer orders in anticipation of the introduction of such new licensing models or products. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address customer needs, which may limit our ability to sell our products through particular partners. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among, or consolidations of, current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share in our current or anticipated markets. We also expect competition will increase as a result of software industry consolidation. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot be certain we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are Susceptible to a Shift in the Market for Client/Server Applications Toward Web-Based or Hosted Applications We have derived substantially all of our historical embedded database product revenues from the use of our products in client/server applications. We expect to rely on continued market demand for client/server applications indefinitely. However, we believe market demand may shift from client/server applications to Web-based or hosted applications. If so, we cannot be certain our existing client/server developers will migrate to Web-based or hosted applications and continue to use our products or that other developers of Web-based or hosted applications would select our data management products. In addition, this shift could result in a change in revenue models from licensing of client/server applications to subscriptions of Web-based or hosted applications from SaaS vendors. A decrease in client/server application sales coupled with an inability to derive revenues from the Web-based or hosted application market could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents We Depend on International Sales and Operations We anticipate for the foreseeable future we will derive a significant portion of our revenues from sources outside North America. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, we derived 36% of our revenues outside North America. Our international operations are generally subject to a number of risks. These risks include: • foreign laws and business practices favoring local competition; • dependence on local channel partners; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations; • longer sales cycles; • greater difficulty or delay in collecting payments from customers; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and the associated effects on product demand and timing of payment; • increased tax rates in certain foreign countries; • complexities with financial reporting in foreign countries; • quality control of certain development, translation or localization activities; • political, social and economic instability; and • reduced or different protections for intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. We may expand or modify our operations internationally. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to expand or modify our operations internationally in a timely and cost-effective manner. Such an outcome would limit or eliminate any sales growth internationally, which in turn would materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Even if we successfully expand or modify our international operations, we may be unable to maintain or increase international market demand for our product. We expect our international operations will continue to place financial and administrative demands on us, including operational complexity associated with international facilities, administrative burdens associated with managing relationships with foreign partners, and treasury functions to manage foreign currency risks and collections. Fluctuations in the Relative Value of Foreign Currencies Can Affect Our Business To date, the majority of our transactions have been denominated in U.S. dollars. The majority of our international operating expenses and substantially all of our sales in Japan have been denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Therefore, our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the relative value of the U.S. dollar. Certain of our international sales are denominated in U.S dollars, especially in Europe. Any strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the currencies of countries where we sell products denominated in U.S. dollars will increase the relative cost of our products and could negatively impact our sales in those countries. To the extent our international operations expand or are modified, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations may increase. We have, on occasion, entered into limited hedging transactions to mitigate our exposure to currency fluctuations. Despite these hedging transactions, exchange rate fluctuations have caused, and will continue to cause, currency transaction gains and losses. Although these transactions have not resulted in material gains and losses to date, similar transactions could have a damaging effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition in future periods. 22 Table of Contents We Must Continue to Hire and Retain Skilled Personnel Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled employees on a timely basis, particularly executive management, sales and marketing personnel, software engineers and other senior personnel. Our efforts to attract and retain highly skilled employees could be harmed by our past or any future workforce reductions. Our failure to attract and retain the highly trained technical personnel who are essential to our product development, marketing, service and support teams may limit the rate at which we can generate revenue and develop new products or product enhancements. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We issue stock options and restricted stock as key components of our overall compensation. There is pressure on public companies from shareholders generally and various organizations to reduce the rate at which companies issue stock options and restricted stock to employees, which may make it more difficult to obtain shareholder approval of equity compensation plans when required. As a result, we may lose top employees to non public, start-up companies or may generally find it more difficult to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Have Received an Unsolicited, Non-Binding Proposal to Acquire all of the Outstanding Shares of Our Common Stock, Which Proposal May be Disruptive to Our Business and Threaten to Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Condition, or Results of Operations. On August 13, 2012, we received an unsolicited, non-binding letter from Actian Corporation proposing to acquire all of the outstanding shares of our common stock for $8.50 per share in cash. We have retained Shea & Company, LLC to assist and advise our board of directors in its evaluation of such proposal, as well as our other strategic alternatives, including remaining independent and executing our existing strategic plans. We remain committed to delivering innovative data management, integration and analytics technology for our customers and partners worldwide. There can be no assurance that our board of directors’ consideration of the Actian proposal or our other strategic alternatives will result in a transaction with Actian or any other party or any specific change in our current strategic plan. Moreover, the unsolicited nature of the proposal may disrupt our business by causing uncertainty among current and potential employees, suppliers, customers, and other constituencies important to our success, which could negatively impact our financial results and business initiatives. We believe the future trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could be subject to wide price fluctuations based on many factors, including uncertainty associated with the unsolicited offer by Actian. We Have Anti-Takeover Provisions Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a stockholder might consider favorable. These provisions include provisions to authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations for elections to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholders’ meetings; eliminate the ability of stockholders to act by written consent; require super-majority voting to approve certain amendments to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation; limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and provide for a Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms. In addition, certain provisions of Delaware law and our 1997 Stock Incentive Plan and our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan may also have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. We May Elect to Raise Additional Capital Which Might Not Be Available or Which, if Available, May Be on Terms That Are Not Favorable to Us We may elect to raise additional funds, and we cannot be certain we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we issue equity securities, the ownership percentage of our stockholders would be reduced, and the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of 23 Table of Contents existing holders of our common stock. If we borrow money, we may incur significant interest charges, which could harm our profitability. Holders of debt would also have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our product, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The Price of Our Stock Has Been Volatile and Could Continue to Fluctuate Substantially Our common stock is traded in the NASDAQ Global Market. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and could fluctuate substantially based on a variety of factors outside of our control, in addition to our financial performance. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies, including our own, fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to operating results. During the twenty-five fiscal quarters ending June 30, 2012, the Company has acquired approximately 10.5 million shares of its common stock on the open market at a total cost of approximately $46.3 million, or approximately $4.36 price per share. The Company’s Board of Directors approved the current stock repurchase plan effective July 27, 2010, whereby the Company may repurchase additional shares of its common stock with a value of up to $10 million, of which approximately $1.4 million remains available as of June 30, 2012. Depending on market conditions and other factors, such purchases may be commenced or suspended at any time without prior notice. There can be no assurance that we will continue to buy any of our common stock under our share repurchase program or that any past or future repurchases will have a positive impact on our stock price. Important factors that could cause us to discontinue our share repurchases include, among others, unfavorable market conditions, the market price of our common stock, the nature of other investment opportunities presented to us from time to time, and the availability of funds necessary to continue purchasing common stock. We May Be Exposed to Potential Risks if We Do Not Have an Effective System of Disclosure Controls or Internal Controls or Fail on an On-going Basis to Properly Address and Implement Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley We must comply, on an on-going basis, with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX), including those provisions that establish the requirements for both management and auditors of public companies with respect to reporting on internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of Section 404 of SOX, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce the likelihood of fraud. Additionally, if we were to identify any material weakness over our internal control over financial reporting, we also cannot ensure that we could correct any such material weakness to allow our management to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to attest that such assessment will have been fairly stated in any report to be filed with the SEC or attest that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. As a result, the financial position of our business could be harmed; current and potential future shareholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our trading price; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. Our Reported Financial Results May be Adversely Affected by New Accounting Pronouncements or Changes in Existing Accounting Standards and Practices We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and various organizations formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting standards and practices. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred and may occur in the future. New accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective. 24 Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements in the “Letter to Stockholders” in the Annual Report and this Report on Form 10-K under “Business,” “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and elsewhere in this Report constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the Company’s expectations, beliefs, hopes, intentions or strategies regarding the future. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our or our industry’s actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among other things, those listed under “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of such statements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this Report to conform such statements to actual results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2012 fiscal year that remained unresolved. 