ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Unfavorable economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue and profitability. In general, our sales depend on discretionary spending by our customers. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including, among other things, general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, unemployment rates, inflation, weather and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Customers’ purchases of discretionary items, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower or during periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. In such instances, our revenues and profitability will decline. A prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An increase in our sales, profitability and cash flow will depend on our ability to increase the number of stores we operate and increase the productivity and profitability of our existing stores. If we are unable to increase the number of stores we operate and increase the productivity and profitability of existing stores, our ability to increase sales, profitability and cash flow could be significantly impaired. To the extent we are unable to open new stores as planned, our sales growth would come only from increases in comparable store sales. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our comparable store sales, improve our margins or reduce costs as a percentage of sales. Growth in profitability in that case would depend significantly on our ability to increase margins or reduce costs as a percentage of sales. Further, as we implement new initiatives to reduce the cost of operating our stores, sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. There are many factors, some of which are beyond our control, which could impact our ability to increase the number of stores we operate and increase store productivity and profitability. These factors include, but are not limited to: • our ability to identify suitable markets in which to expand, • the availability of suitable sites for additional stores, • our ability to negotiate acceptable lease terms for sites we identify, • the availability of acceptable financing to support our growth, and • our ability to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified general managers and other store personnel. Our success will depend on how well we manage growth. Even if we are able to expand our store base and increase the productivity and profitability of existing stores, we may experience problems relating to growth, which may prevent any significant increase in profitability or negatively impact our cash flow. For example: • The costs of opening and operating new stores, especially in new markets, may offset the increased sales generated by the additional stores. • The opening of additional stores in an existing market could reduce net sales from existing stores in that market. • The opening of stores in new markets may present competitive and merchandising challenges that are different than those we face in existing markets. • The closing or relocation of under-performing stores may result in us retaining liability for outstanding lease obligations. • Our growth may outpace our ability to expand, upgrade and improve administrative, operational and management systems, controls and resources. • Our suppliers may be unable to meet increased demand for merchandise as a result of the additional stores and increased productivity of our existing stores. • We may be unable to expand existing distribution capabilities, or employ third-party distribution services on a cost-effective basis, to provide sufficient merchandise for sale by our new stores. 9 Table of Contents A weak fourth quarter would have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the year. Our business is highly seasonal. Due to the importance of our peak selling season, which includes the Fall and Winter holiday seasons, the fourth quarter has historically contributed, and is expected to continue to contribute, a significant portion of our net income for the entire year. In anticipation of increased sales activity during the fourth quarter, we incur significant additional expense both prior to and during the fourth quarter. These expenses may include acquisition of additional inventory, advertising, in-store promotions, seasonal staffing needs and other similar items. As a result, any factors negatively affecting us during the fourth quarter of any year, including adverse weather and unfavorable economic conditions, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the entire year. Our quarterly results fluctuate due to a variety of factors and are not a meaningful indicator of future performance. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future depending upon a variety of factors, including, among other things: • the mix of merchandise sold, • the timing and level of markdowns, • promotional events and changes in advertising, • adverse weather conditions (particularly on weekends), • store openings, closings, remodels or relocations, • length and timing of the holiday seasons, • competitive factors, and • general economic and political conditions. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of past operating results cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. If our operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our securities would likely decline. Our success depends on key personnel whom we may not be able to retain or hire. We are dependent on the services, abilities and experience of our senior management team. The loss of the services of senior executives and any general instability in the composition of our senior management team could have a negative impact on our ability to execute on our business and operating strategy. In addition, success in the future is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, including general managers. Any inability to do so may have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. We face an extremely competitive retail business market. The arts and crafts industry is highly competitive. We currently compete against a diverse group of retailers, including multi-store arts and crafts retailers, mass merchandisers, small local specialty retailers, mail order vendors and a variety of other retailers. Almost all of our stores face aggressive competition in their market area from one or more of our major competitors. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and operate more stores than we do. We compete with these and other retailers for customers, suitable retail locations, suppliers and qualified associates. Moreover, alternative methods of selling crafts, such as through e-commerce or direct marketing, result in additional competitors and increased price competition because our customers can comparison shop more readily. In addition, we ultimately compete for our customers against alternative sources of entertainment and leisure independent of the arts and crafts industry. 10 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully anticipate changes in merchandise trends and consumer demands and our failure to do so may lead to loss of sales. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing merchandise trends and consumer demand. Accordingly, any delay or failure by us in identifying and correctly responding to changing merchandise trends and consumer demand could adversely affect consumer acceptance of the merchandise in our stores. In addition, we make decisions regarding merchandise well in advance of each of the seasons in which such merchandise will be sold. Significant deviations from projected demand for merchandise would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, either from lost sales due to insufficient inventory or lower margins due to the need to mark down excess inventory. We face risks relating to ordering and inventory management. While our buyers place initial orders of our merchandise, we depend upon our in-store department managers to reorder the majority of our merchandise. The failure of our buyers or department managers to accurately respond to inventory requirements could adversely affect consumer acceptance of the merchandise in our stores and negatively impact sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we misjudge the market, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns, which would have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. Conversely, shortages of key items could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, we conduct a physical inventory in our stores once a year, and quarterly results are based on an estimated gross margin and accrual for estimated inventory shrinkage. Unfavorable consumer response to our promotional strategy could materially and adversely affect our sales, profitability and cash flow. Advertising promotions, price, quality and value have a significant impact on consumers’ shopping decisions. If we misjudge consumer response to our promotional strategies, our financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. Adverse events could have a greater impact on us than if we had a larger store base in different geographical regions. As of March 16, 2008, we operated a chain of 136 stores. Because our current and planned stores are located in the Eastern United States, the effect on us of adverse events in this region (such as weather or unfavorable regional economic conditions) may be greater than if our stores were more geographically dispersed. Because overhead costs are spread over a smaller store base, increases in our selling, general and administrative expenses could affect our profitability more negatively than if we had a larger store base. One or more unsuccessful new stores, or a decline in sales at an existing store, will have a more significant effect on our results of operations than if we had a larger store base. A disruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not have a formal disaster recovery or business continuity plan, and could therefore experience a significant business interruption in the event of a natural disaster, catastrophic event or other similar event. The occurrence of such events or other unanticipated problems could cause interruptions or delays in our business, supply chain or infrastructure which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In 2007, approximately 35% of our merchandise units sold were fulfilled through our distribution centers. In addition, our vendors may also be subject to business interruptions from such events. Significant changes to our supply chain or other operations could have a material adverse impact on our results. Our back-up operations and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to cover or compensate us for losses that may occur. 11 Table of Contents We depend on a number of key vendors to supply our merchandise and services and the loss of any one of our key vendors may result in a loss of sales and significantly harm our operating results. Our performance depends on our ability to purchase merchandise and services at sufficient levels at competitive prices. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to maintain a good relationship with our suppliers. SBAR’S, one of our suppliers, accounted for approximately 17.1% of the aggregate dollar volume of our purchases in 2007. Generally, we do not have any long-term purchase agreements or other contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could discontinue selling to us at any time. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities or on terms acceptable to us in the future, or be able to develop relationships with new vendors to replace discontinued vendors. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise or services in the future or the loss of one or more key vendors and our failure to replace any one or more of them may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our smaller vendors generally have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories, and some of our vendors have limited the distribution of their merchandise in the past. These vendors may be susceptible to cash flow problems, downturns in economic conditions, production difficulties, quality control issues and difficulty delivering agreed-upon quantities on schedule. We also cannot assure you that we would be able, if necessary, to return product to these vendors, obtain refunds of our purchase price or obtain reimbursement or indemnification from any of our vendors if their products prove defective. We face risks associated with sourcing and obtaining imported merchandise. We have in recent years placed increased emphasis on obtaining floral, seasonal and other items from overseas vendors, with approximately 17.9% of all of our merchandise being purchased directly by us from overseas vendors in 2007. In addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase their merchandise from foreign sources. China is the source of a substantial majority of our imported merchandise. Because a large percentage of our merchandise is manufactured or sourced abroad, we are required to order these products further in advance than would be the case if these products were manufactured domestically. Risks associated with our reliance on imported merchandise include, but are not limited to: • Disruptions in the flow of imported goods because of factors such as: o Raw material shortages, work stoppages, strikes and political unrest; o Problems with trans-ocean shipping, including storage of shipping containers; and o Global or international economic uncertainties, crises or disputes. • Increases in the cost of purchasing or shipping imported merchandise that may result from: o Increases in shipping rates imposed by trans-ocean carriers; o Changes in currency exchange rates and local economic conditions, including inflation; o Failure of the United States to maintain normal trade relations with China; and o Import duties, quotas and other trade sanctions. A disruption in supply of our imported merchandise, or the imposition of additional costs of purchasing or shipping imported merchandise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations unless and until alternative supply arrangements are secured. Products from alternative sources may be of lesser quality or more expensive than those we currently purchase, resulting in a loss of sales or profit. Our information technology may prove inadequate. We depend on our information technology systems for many aspects of our business. Some of our key software has been developed by our own programmers and this software may not be easily integrated with other software and systems. We have implemented a perpetual inventory system and anticipate full implementation of an automated replenishment system in the second half of 2009. We anticipate realizing some benefit from the automated replenishment system in the second half of 2009, with the majority of the benefits being realized in 2010 due to a period of adjustment in operations following implementation. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if our systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, integrate or expand upon our systems. 12 Table of Contents Moreover, we may not be able to implement automated replenishment or realize any benefits from this system in the anticipated timeframe. We may fail to properly optimize the effectiveness of these systems, or to adequately implement, support and maintain the systems, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. An increase in the cost of fuel oil and oil-based products could impact our earnings and margins. Prices for oil have fluctuated dramatically in the past and rose substantially in 2007. These fluctuations impact our distribution costs and the distribution costs of our vendors. If the price of fuel oil continues to increase, our distribution costs will increase, which could impact our earnings. In addition, many of the products we sell, such as paints, are oil-based. If the price of oil continues to increase, the price of the oil-based products we purchase and sell may increase, which could impact our margins. Terrorist attacks and threats or actual war may impact all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs and stock price in unpredictable ways. Terrorist attacks in the United States, as well as future events occurring in response to or in connection with them, including, without limitation, future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies or military or trade disruptions impacting our domestic or foreign suppliers of merchandise, may impact our operations, including, among other things, causing delays or losses in the delivery of merchandise to us and decreased sales of the products we carry. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and global financial markets and economy. They also could result in a deepening of any economic recession in the United States or abroad. These events could also temporarily increase demand for our products as consumers respond by traveling less and engaging in home-based leisure activities which could contribute to a temporary increase in our sales which may not be sustainable. Any of these occurrences could have a significant impact on our operating results, revenues and costs and may result in the volatility of the market price for our common stock. In connection with the restatement of previously issued financial statements, management concluded that, for all periods through December 31, 2007, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective and we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent or detect fraud. In connection with the restatement of our previously issued financial statements and the related reassessment of our internal control over financial reporting with respect to our inventory valuation, management concluded that as of December 31, 2007 and for all prior periods, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective and that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Should we identify any other material weakness, such weakness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as impair our ability to meet the reporting requirements under the securities laws in a timely manner. These effects could in turn adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and could result in a material misstatement of our financial position or results of operations and require a further restatement of our financial statements. We face risks related to the restatement of our previously issued financial statements. We have restated previously issued financial statements as set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K. Our restated financial statements and related filings are subject to review by the SEC. Such review could result in a further restatement of our financial statements and amendments to this report or prior annual reports and quarterly reports. Further restatement could result in an event of default under our mortgages or line of credit. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, our lender could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If our lender accelerates repayment, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our mortgages. Also, should there be an event of default, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and more restrictive loan covenants in future periods. In addition, further restatement and any associated delays in 13 Table of Contents filing our required reports under the securities laws, could cause us to not qualify for continued listing on The NASDAQ Stock Market. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers are as follows: Name Age Position Rick A. Lepley 57 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Marc Katz 43 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Joseph A. Jeffries 42 Executive Vice President of Operations Craig R. Davis 55 Senior Vice President of Merchandising and Marketing Amy Rhoades 36 Vice President and General Counsel Mr. Lepley has served as Chief Executive Officer and a director of the Company since June 2006, and President of the Company since June 2007. Previously, Mr. Lepley was Executive Vice President of North American Retail for Office Depot, Inc., a global supplier of office products and services, a position he held from March 2004 to April 2006. Mr. Lepley was President, Office Depot Japan from May 2001 to March 2004 and was responsible for all of that company’s operations in Japan. From 1994 to 2000, Mr. Lepley served as founder and President of Retail Investment Concepts, Inc., an independent retailer and Office Depot licensee for Eastern Europe. From 1982 to 1993, Mr. Lepley was employed by Mitsubishi Motor Sales of America, Inc., the exclusive U.S. distributor of Mitsubishi Motors-brand cars and vehicles, where he held various positions, including Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing, and was responsible for more than 500 Mitsubishi Motors dealerships in the United States. He was one of 11 executives who founded Mitsubishi Motor Sales of America, Inc. in 1982. Mr. Katz has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since September 2006. Previously, Mr. Katz was Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Foot Locker, Inc., a specialty athletic retailer, a position he held from May 2003 to September 2006. Mr. Katz served as Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Foot Locker from July 2002 to May 2003. From 1997 to 2002, Mr. Katz served in the following capacities at the financial services center of Foot Locker: Vice President and Controller from July 2001 to July 2002; Controller from December 1999 to July 2001; Retail Controller from October 1997 to December 1999; and Director Inventory Control from June 1997 to October 1997. Prior to his employment with Foot Locker, Mr. Katz served for eight years at The May Department Stores Company, an operator of department store chains, in various financial positions. Mr. Jeffries has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President of Operations since November 2007. Previously, Mr. Jeffries served as Vice President, Store Operations, Space Planning and Visual Merchandising for Office Depot, Inc., a global supplier of office products and services, a position he held from 2004 to November 2007. During 2004 and 2005, he also served as Vice President, Store and Copy Center Operations of Office Depot. From 1999 to 2003, Mr. Jeffries served in the following capacities at Office Depot: Director, Store Prototype Development; Director, Store Operations; and Senior Manager, Store Processes. Prior to his employment with Office Depot, Mr. Jeffries held management positions with Home Quarters Warehouse, Inc., a home improvement retail chain. Mr. Davis has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President of Merchandising and Marketing since July 2007. Previously, Mr. Davis served as Vice President, General Merchandise Manager, Retail for Cracker Barrel Old Country Store, a national restaurant and gift shop chain, from October 2006 to July 2007. He joined Cracker Barrel in 2005 as a Divisional Merchandise Manager. From 2001 to 2004, Mr. Davis was Vice President and General Merchandise Manager for Jo-Ann Stores, Inc., the national fabric and craft retailer. From 1996 to 2001, Mr. Davis served as Divisional Merchandise Manager for Garden Ridge, Inc., the privately held retailer of home décor, craft 14 Table of Contents and house ware products located in the Midwestern and Southeastern United States. From 1976 to 1996, he held senior management positions with various arts and crafts and home décor retailers, including Metropolitan Plant and Flower, Inc. and Leewards Creative Crafts, Inc. Ms. Rhoades has served as Vice President and General Counsel of the Company since July 2006. From April 2003 to July 2006, Ms. Rhoades was an attorney at the law firm of Blank Rome LLP. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 