ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investment in us presents risks. If any of the risk events described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Some statements in the following risk factors discussion, constitute “forward-looking statements.” Please refer to the section above entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” The current economic crises has resulted in a substantial loss in the value of office properties in general across the United States and in our portfolio in particular. During the current economic crises over the past approximately 18 months, market conditions relating to office properties generally in the United States, and specifically in the Chicago area, have significantly deteriorated, with vacancy rates increasing, rents decreasing, prices for office properties falling and financing for such assets becoming difficult to obtain. This has caused and may continue to cause in the future a substantial loss in the value of office properties generally in the United States, and specifically in the Chicago area, including in our portfolio. This decline in value has required us to take non-cash asset impairment charges on six of the properties in our portfolio for calendar year 2009, in order to write-down the value of these properties in our financial statements to their estimated fair values. This decline in property values has also resulted in a net equity value per share for our Series B Shares that is significantly less than their liquidation preference of $25.00 per share. This loss in value has also resulted, and may in the future result, in the value of certain of our assets being less than the amount of debt on such asset, in which case, if the income from the asset becomes insufficient to service its debt, or if the debt on the asset matures and we are not able to refinance it on acceptable terms, the property may be foreclosed on by the lender or we may agree to deed the affected asset back to the lender in lieu of foreclosure. We may in the future have to take additional impairment charges on these and/or other of our properties to the extent market conditions continue to deteriorate or for other specific reasons applicable to a particular property. Our properties depend upon the Chicago metropolitan area economy and its demand for office space. With the exception of our joint venture interest in a building in Phoenix, Arizona, all of our properties are located in the Chicago metropolitan area, which exposes us to greater economic risks than if we owned properties in several geographic regions. Moreover, because our portfolio of properties consists primarily of office buildings, a decrease in the demand for office space may have a greater adverse effect on our business and financial condition than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. We are susceptible to adverse developments in the Chicago metropolitan area, such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, changing demographics, increased telecommuting, terrorist targeting of high-rise structures, infrastructure quality, increases in real estate and other taxes, costs of complying with government regulations or increased regulation and other factors. We are also subject to adverse developments in the national and Chicago regional office space markets, such as oversupply of or reduced demand for office space. Any adverse economic or real estate developments in the Chicago metropolitan area, or any decrease in demand for office space, including those resulting from Chicago’s or Illinois’ regulatory environment, business climate or fiscal problems, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, resume payment of dividends to holders of our Series B Shares and our common shareholder and pay a significant portion of the amount due holders of the Series B Shares upon redemption of such shares. 12 Table of Contents Our debt level reduces cash available for operations, capital expenditures and dividends to holders of our Series B Shares and our common shareholder, and has exposed us to the risk of default under our debt obligations. Payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our properties, fund necessary capital expenditures or to pay the distributions necessary to maintain our REIT qualification. Our relatively high level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our loan agreements have and will probably continue to have significant adverse consequences to us, including the following: • our cash flow has been with respect to certain properties and may be in the future with respect to additional properties insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments on the debt encumbering such properties; • we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms; • we may be unable to refinance our existing or future indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our existing indebtedness; • because a portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates, increases in interest rates could increase our interest expense; • we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; • we have defaulted on our obligations on certain properties and may in the future default on our obligations on additional properties and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our affected properties that secure their loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases, or we may convey the affected properties to the lenders or mortgagees pursuant to a deed in lieu of foreclosure or similar transaction; • we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan agreements, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; and • one of our subsidiaries that owns a parcel at the Continental Towers complex has defaulted on its indebtedness, which has triggered a cross-default provision in the indebtedness of a separate subsidiary that owns a parcel at the Continental Towers complex and the relevant lender has accelerated the maturity date of both loans. If and when all or any of these events occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, resume payment of dividends to holders of Series B Shares and our common shareholder and pay a significant portion of the amount due holders of the Series B Shares upon redemption of such shares could be adversely affected. In addition, foreclosures could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, a circumstance which could hinder our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code. In July 2009, we conveyed our 800-810 Jorie Boulevard property to the lender in exchange for a release of the loan because the cash flow from the property was insufficient to make required debt service payments. 13 Table of Contents On February 26, 2010, our two subsidiaries which own separate portions of our Continental Towers property notified the lender of the non-recourse notes on the property that they were each in default under the terms of their respective loan documents due to the property encumbered by one of the loans generating negative cash flow. On March 5, 2010, these two subsidiaries and the Operating Partnership received notices from the lender that the lender was accelerating the maturity date of the loans and demanding payment of all amounts due under the loans. It is highly likely that these properties will be conveyed to the lender pursuant to a deal in lieu of foreclosure or be foreclosed on by the lenders. Additional properties we own may experience similar events if cash flow from such properties are insufficient to make debt service payments or if the related loan matures and we are not able to refinance it. Domestic and international financial markets have experienced unusual volatility and uncertainty and financing has become difficult to obtain on satisfactory terms. Recently, domestic and international financial markets have experienced unusual volatility and uncertainty. Financing has become difficult to obtain on satisfactory terms making it difficult to refinance maturing debt or to obtain additional funds as they are needed. Our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms and our ability to refinance our existing or future indebtedness at maturity has already been significantly adversely impacted by these events. If we are unable to borrow additional funds or refinance indebtedness at maturity, the probability that one or more of the adverse consequences listed in the foregoing risk factors may occur will be increased. One or more of our properties may face foreclosure by our lenders or we may voluntarily decide to convey one or more of our properties to a lender if a property’s cash flow is not enough to service its debt, operating expenses and capital requirements or if we cannot refinance a property upon debt maturity. Many of our properties are encumbered by debt that is non-recourse to us (except for customary “non-recourse carve out” provisions relating to matters such as fraud, misallocation of funds and other customary exclusions which in many cases have been guaranteed). We recently disclosed that the cash flow from the Continental Towers Complex, owned by two of our subsidiaries, is not sufficient to service its first mortgage debt and that we are in discussions with the lender regarding the Complex. Should the cash flow from any of these properties cease to be sufficient to fund debt service, operating expenses and capital requirements relating to the property, or should we be unable to refinance a property’s debt upon the maturity of such debt, we may face foreclosure by our lenders on that property or we may decide to voluntarily convey the property to the relevant lenders in lieu of foreclosure. We may or may not decide to fund cash flow shortfalls at a property in such a circumstance. As a result of any loan defaults, our portfolio of properties may be reduced (resulting in a higher allocation of overhead to each of our remaining properties), our existing and potential future lenders and tenants may be less willing to consummate transactions with us based on such loan default by us, our shareholders will not be able to realize any value from any such properties and we may incur losses on our financial statements regarding any such properties. In addition, although we are currently not aware of any events which would give rise to liability under a non-recourse carve-out provision in our loan documents, if any lender attempted to claim such liability exists, such lender may attempt to recover any losses from and/or assert that a loan is completely recourse to, our Operating Partnership. In such a case, were the lender successful, the liability could be very significant. 14 Table of Contents Our Operating Losses for the last several years have been significant and we project them to continue for the foreseeable future, which has and will in the future significantly adversely impact our ability to continue operating our business. We have over the last several years experienced significant operating losses and we project that our results of operations will continue to reflect operating losses in the foreseeable future. For example, our loss from continuing operations was $(88.3) million in calendar year 2009, $(58.3) million in calendar year 2008 and $(94.9) million in calendar year 2007. These continuing operating losses have and will in the future, significantly adversely impact our ability to continue operating our business, resume the payment of dividends to holders of our Series B Shares and our common shareholder and pay a significant portion of the amount due holders of the Series B Shares upon redemption of such shares. Among other things, continuing operating losses may result in us having insufficient funds to pay for required tenant improvement costs to attract new tenants and retain existing tenants, meet required principal and interest payments on our debt, and otherwise operate our business. Continuing operating losses have in the past and may in the future require that we dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms. We may be unable to renew leases, lease vacant space or re-lease space as leases expire. As of December 31, 2009, leases representing 29.1% of the annual rental revenue we receive for the properties in our portfolio, excluding the joint venture property, will expire in 2010. In addition, Jenner & Block at our 330 N. Wabash Avenue property, a tenant that represented approximately 16.3% of our annual total revenues, and Aon Corporation at our Continental Towers property, a tenant that represented approximately 3.6% of our annual total revenues, have not renewed their leases and have vacated their space. Above market rental rates at some of our properties have forced us and may continue to force us to renew or re-lease some expiring leases at lower rates. There can be no assurance that leases will be renewed or that our properties will be re-leased at net effective rental rates equal to or above their current net effective rental rates. If the rental rates for our properties remain lower then for some existing leases, our existing tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space and space for which leases will expire, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, resume the payment of dividends to holders of Series B Shares and our common shareholder and pay a significant portion of the amount due holders of the Series B Shares upon redemption of such shares will continue to be adversely affected. Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with real estate assets and with the real estate industry. Our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, resume the payment of dividends to holders of Series B Shares and our common shareholder and pay a significant portion of the amount due holders of the Series B Shares upon redemption of such shares depends on our ability to generate revenues in excess of (i) expenses, (ii) scheduled principal payments on debt and (iii) capital expenditure requirements. It also depends on our ability to obtain adequate financing and refinancing of our properties and to consummate certain capital transactions as necessary to generate any needed liquidity. Events and conditions generally applicable to owners and operators of real property in the United States generally, and Chicago particularly, that are beyond our control have in the past and may in the future continue to decrease cash available for distribution and the value of our properties. These events include: • poor economic conditions in general, including high unemployment resulting in a need by tenants of less office space; • local oversupply, increased competition or reduction in demand for office space; 15 Table of Contents • inability to collect rent from tenants; • vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms; • increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities and real estate taxes, due to inflation and other factors which may not necessarily be offset by increased rents; • costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations; • the relative illiquidity of real estate investments; and • changing submarket demographics. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, have in the past and may in the future result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases, which has in the past and could in the future continue to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, resume the payment of dividends to holders of Series B Shares and our common shareholder and pay a significant portion of the amount due holders of the Series B Shares upon redemption of such shares. The current economic recession and weakness in the debt and capital markets may adversely affect our tenants’ ability to pay rent, our ability to lease space and our ability to obtain capital and refinance our existing debt as it becomes due. The current economic recession and weakness in the debt and capital markets is adversely affecting many of our tenants and other parties we do business with, and has in the past could in the future result in the inability of some of our tenants to pay their rent in a timely manner and other parties we do business with to perform certain obligations they may have to us. In addition, the well-publicized slowdown in the debt and capital markets could make it difficult for us to obtain needed capital and financing, including refinancing our existing debt as it matures. We face significant competition, which may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. There are a number of office real estate companies that compete with us in seeking prospective tenants. All of our properties are located in developed areas where there are generally other properties of the same type and quality. Competition from other office properties affects our ability to attract and retain tenants and maintain or increase rental rates, particularly in light of the higher vacancy rates of many competing properties, which may result in lower-priced space being available in such properties. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, some of which are significantly above current market rates, we may lose potential tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain tenants when their leases expire. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, resume the payment of dividends to holders of Series B Shares and our common shareholder and pay a significant portion of the amount due holders of the Series B Shares upon redemption of such shares could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and restrict our range of operating activities. The loan documents evidencing our loans contain certain covenants with our lenders, which include minimum ratios for debt service coverage and other financial covenants affecting us and certain of our properties. These covenants could limit our flexibility in conducting our operations and create the risk of a default on our indebtedness if we cannot continue to satisfy them. In addition, these covenants could limit our ability, without the prior consent of the appropriate lender, to further mortgage our properties. If we fail to comply with any of these covenants and are not able to get a waiver from the relevant lender, we will be in default under the relevant loan and any other loans, which may be cross-defaulted with such loan. If this occurs, the relevant lenders may foreclose on our properties that secure the loans, pursue us or our affiliates for any portion of the debt which is recourse and could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, resume the payment of dividends to holders of Series B Shares and our common shareholder and pay a significant portion of the amount due holders of the Series B Shares upon redemption of such shares. There can be no assurance that we will be able to resume the payment of cash dividends to holders of Series B Shares or our common shareholder or pay a significant portion of the amount due holders of the Series B Shares upon redemption of such shares. We have not paid quarterly dividends on our Series B Shares during calendar year 2009 and for the first quarter of 2010, and we currently do not pay regularly scheduled dividends on our common shares. In addition, there can be no assurances that we will be able to pay these accrued and unpaid Series B Share dividends or that we will be current in the future with dividends on our Series B Shares. In addition to this current suspension of dividends, we have several times in the past suspended the declaration and payment of dividends on both our preferred shares and our common shares. For example, on June 14, 2006, our Board suspended the payment of dividends on our Series B Shares. Dividends on the Series B Shares were not declared again until September 2006 when the Board declared one quarterly dividend and were not brought current until the Board declared two quarterly dividends in December 2006. In addition, in January 2002 our Board suspended dividends on our common shares and in April 2002 dividends on the Series B Shares were suspended. This suspension of preferred dividends was not lifted and dividends on our Series B Shares were not brought current until the closing of our Acquisition by Lightstone in July 2005. Regular dividends on our common shares were never resumed, although several common dividends have been declared since the Acquisition. However, there can be no assurances that the current suspension of Series B Share dividends will be lifted and that such dividends will be brought current, or that we will be able to pay a significant portion of the amount due holders of the Series B Shares upon redemption of such shares. Our management and Board review our cash position, debt levels, requirements for cash reserves and market conditions each quarter prior to making any decision with respect to paying distributions/dividends. Any future dividends on our common shares and/or preferred shares will be made at the discretion of our Board and there can be no assurances that future dividends will be declared and paid. The declaration and payment of dividends will depend on the actual cash available for distribution, our financial condition, capital requirements, the completion of capital events, including refinancings and asset sales, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and such other factors as our Board deems relevant. Dividends/distributions on our common shares and common units in the Operating Partnership are not permitted unless all current and any accumulated dividends on our Series B Shares and the related preferred units in the Operating Partnership have been paid in full or declared and set aside for payment. 17 Table of Contents Only our Series B Shares are currently listed on the NYSE and, therefore, we are entitled to rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Only our Series B Shares are currently listed on the NYSE. Under the NYSE rules, a company which only lists preferred shares or debt is not required to comply with certain of the NYSE corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors of a listed company consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that a listed company have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (3) the requirement that a listed company have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities. We are currently utilizing these exemptions as they relate to our Board. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent trustees, nor do we have nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. Accordingly, the holders of Series B Shares and our common shareholder may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. The average daily trading volume of our Series B Shares is relatively small, thus making it difficult to buy or sell significant numbers of shares without affecting the market price. Our common shares are not publicly traded, and our Series B Shares are currently traded on the NYSE. However, based on the recent historical average daily trading volume of our Series B Shares, the acquisition or sale of a significant number of our Series B Shares on the NYSE will in most cases affect the market price of the Series B Shares, thus making it difficult or impossible to buy or sell large numbers of shares at or near the market price in effect immediately prior to any such purchase or sale. In addition, because the purchase or sale of relatively small numbers of shares may significantly impact the price of the Series B Shares, significant fluctuations in trading volume and price variations may occur, which may be unrelated to our operating performance. Our filing of financial statements and other reports with the SEC are scheduled to cease and our Series B Shares are in the process of being delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. The Agreement and Plan of Merger we entered into in connection with our July 2005 acquisition by Lightstone contained a covenant that we would continue to file our quarterly and annual financial statements on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K and current reports on Form 8-K with the SEC for five years after the closing of the Acquisition. This five year period expires on June 30, 2010. Even after the expiration of the five year period, we would continue to be obligated to file the financial statements and reports with the SEC so long as any of our securities remain registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “1934 Act”). On January 11, 2010, we announced our intention to delist our Series B Shares from trading on the New York Stock Exchange, and to remove our Series B Shares from registration under the 1934 Act. Delisting and deregistering our Series B Shares may have an adverse effect on the marketability of our Series B Shares and, as a result, the market price for our Series B Shares might decrease and/or become more volatile. We currently intend to move the reporting of the trading of our Series B Shares to the Pink Sheets with Pink OTC Markets Inc. 18 Table of Contents Lightstone controls us, and will continue to control us, so long as one or more of its affiliates own a majority of our common shares. Lightstone, through its subsidiary, Prime Office, beneficially owns all of our outstanding common shares. Our Board currently consists of seven trustees, of which three qualify as “independent” under NYSE rules. As long as Lightstone beneficially owns a majority of our outstanding common shares, Lightstone will continue to be able to elect the members of our Board, subject to the rights of our Series B preferred shareholders to elect two Trustees when dividends on the Series B Shares become six quarters in arrears. As a result, Lightstone will control all matters affecting us, including (i) the composition of a majority of our Board and, through it, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers, (ii) any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations, (iii) our acquisition or disposition of assets, (iv) our corporate finance activities and (v) the payment of dividends and other amounts on our common shares and Series B Shares. Lightstone and its designees on our Board may have interests that conflict with our interests. Lightstone and its designees on our Board may have interests that conflict with, or are different from, our own and/or holders of our Series B Shares. Conflicts of interest between Lightstone and us and/or holders of our Series B Shares may arise, and such conflicts of interest may not be resolved in a manner favorable to us and/or holders of Series B Shares, including potential competitive business activities, corporate opportunities, indemnity arrangements, registration rights, dividends on our common shares and Series B Shares and the exercise by Lightstone of its ability to control our management and affairs. Our organizational documents do not contain any provisions designed to facilitate resolution of actual or potential conflicts of interests, or to ensure that potential business opportunities that may become available to both Lightstone and us will be reserved for or made available to us. Pertinent provisions of law will govern any such matters if they arise. We may sell or acquire additional assets which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. We may sell or acquire real estate or acquire other real estate related companies when we believe a sale or acquisition is consistent with our business strategies. In addition, we may be required to sell one or more of our properties to obtain necessary cash proceeds for our own liquidity needs. However, we may not be successful in completing a desired sale or acquisition in a timely manner or pursuant to terms that are favorable to us, especially considering the current extremely unfavorable market conditions in the United States generally and Chicago particularly. Real estate investments may be, depending on market conditions, relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. Consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions. If we do complete an acquisition, we may not succeed in leasing any newly acquired properties at rental rates or upon other terms sufficient to cover the costs of acquisition and operations. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from other important matters. We may also abandon acquisition or sale opportunities prior to completion and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred and have thus devoted significant amounts of management time to a matter not consummated. Furthermore, future acquisitions may expose us to significant additional liabilities, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition. If and when we do complete a sale, (i) we may not succeed in selling it for a price or on other terms favorable to us, and (ii) we will forego any future income from such sold property. 19 Table of Contents The redevelopment of certain of our existing properties that we may undertake could be costly and involve substantial risk. As part of our operating strategy we may redevelop certain of our existing properties to upgrade the quality of an asset and/or change its use. Redeveloping real estate contains numerous risks, which may adversely affect our ability to make dividends to holders of Series B Shares and our common shareholder. These risks include the risks that (i) financing and/or equity for redevelopment projects may not be available on favorable terms, (ii) long-term financing to refinance any short-term construction financing may not be available upon the completion of a project, (iii) the failure to complete construction of a project on schedule or within budget may increase debt service expenses and construction costs, and (iv) we may be unable to find interested users to lease space in a project after its completion, thus making it difficult or impossible for us to recoup our investment or refinance our indebtedness on the project. We may also abandon redevelopment projects prior to the commencement or completion or construction and (a) consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred and (b) have thus devoted significant amounts of management time to a project which was not completed. We depend on significant tenants. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the five largest tenants in our portfolio represented approximately 34.2% of the total revenue generated by our properties, of which one tenant, Jenner & Block, represented approximately 16.3% of our total revenues and will not renew their lease when it expires in 2010. Our tenants may experience a downturn in their businesses, which may weaken their financial condition, result in their failure to make timely rental payments or result in their default under their leases. In the event of any tenant default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs attempting to protect our investment. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant also may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the United States Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy. In addition, the bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our claim against the tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owned under the lease. Our claim for unpaid rent would likely not be paid in full. Our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, resume payment of dividends to holders of Series B Shares and our common shareholder and pay a significant portion of the amount due holders of the Series B Shares upon redemption of such shares have been in the past and could be in the future materially adversely affected if any of our significant tenants were to become bankrupt or insolvent, or suffer a downturn in their business, or fail to renew their leases at all or renew on terms less favorable to us than their current terms. For example, Jenner & Block and Aon Corporation, the tenants referenced above, have not renewed their leases expiring April 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, and have vacated their space. Failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us. We currently operate our business so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code. Although our management believes that we are organized and operate in such a manner, no assurance can be given that we will continue to be able to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain so qualified. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the IRS that we qualify as a REIT, and the statements in this report are not binding on the IRS or any court. If we lose our REIT status, we will face serious tax and other significant consequences that would substantially reduce or eliminate the funds available for operations, capital improvements, debt service and dividends and other distributions to holders of Series B Shares and our common shareholder for each of the years involved because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; 20 Table of Contents • we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make dividends to holders of Series B Shares and our common shareholder, and all dividends to such shareholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our common and preferred shares. Qualification as a REIT involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements established under highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable Treasury regulations under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the composition of our assets and a requirement that at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, such as “rents from real property.” Also, we must make distributions to shareholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, if any (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains). In addition, no assurance can be given that new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to our qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. Even if we qualify as and maintain our status as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. For example, if we were to generate net income from a “prohibited transaction,” such income will be subject to a 100.0% tax. We are required to include in our annual reports a report of our management on our internal controls over our financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Any adverse results from future evaluations could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on the stock price of our Series B Shares and the value of our common shares. We are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules and regulations of the Securities Exchange Commission, which include the requirement that our annual report include our management’s report on internal controls over financial reporting. To comply with these requirements the management report must contain an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls as of the end of each calendar year and we must disclose any material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting that were identified by us. Management previously assessed the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for calendar years 2008 and 2007 and determined that as of December 31, 2008, and as 21 Table of Contents of December 31, 2007 in connection with the previously disclosed restatement of our financial statements for calendar year 2007, that we had material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting as of these dates (see Item 9A — Controls and Procedures for a more detailed discussion of the foregoing). In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control - Integrated Framework. For calendar year 2009, management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and determined that as of December 31, 2009, our internal controls were effective. While our management believes that our consolidated financial statements included in this report are fairly stated, in all material respects, in accordance with GAAP, the fact that we have determined in the past that we had material weaknesses in our internal controls in the past could cause investors and other third parties to be reluctant to rely on the information contained in our financial statements. If we are unable in the future to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, we could lose investor confidence in our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our Series B Shares and common shares and our ability to continue to operate our businesses. Other regulations could adversely affect our financial condition. Our properties also are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and safety requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the imposition of fines by governmental authorities or awards of damages to private litigants. We believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with all such regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance, however, that these requirements will not be changed or that new requirements will not be imposed which would require significant unanticipated expenditures and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, resume the payment of dividends to holders of Series B Shares and our common shareholder and pay a significant portion of the amount due holders of the Series B Shares upon redemption of such shares. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. We have in the past, and may in the future, attempt to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements that involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, and that such arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, resume the payment of dividends to holders of Series B Shares and our common shareholder and pay a significant portion of the amount due holders of the Series B Shares upon redemption of such shares. Potential losses may not be covered by insurance. Our properties are covered by comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental loss and all-risk insurance provided by various companies and with deductibles, limits and policy specifications customarily covered for similar properties. Certain types of losses, however, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, such as losses due to floods, riots or acts of war, or may be insured subject to specified limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. See Item 1 — Business — Insurance in this report for further discussion. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose our investment in and the anticipated future cash flow from the affected property and may be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness, to the extent it is recourse indebtedness, or other obligations related to such property. 22 Table of Contents The completion of new developments adjacent to or near certain of our existing properties has and will in the future adversely affect the leasing, operation and value of those properties. New projects recently completed may adversely affect our leasing efforts and the value of our properties, by among other things, blocking certain views from our properties and creating increased traffic and congestion. In addition, two large new office developments were recently completed in the vicinity of our 180 N. LaSalle and 330 N. Wabash Avenue properties. These projects directly compete with our properties referred to above and could materially adversely affect (i) our ability to retain our existing tenants, and attract new tenants, and (ii) for those existing tenants that we are able to retain and new tenants that we are able to attract, the business terms on which such deals are completed. This has and could in the future result in us leasing less space at lower rents and with higher costs at our properties than we could have otherwise, which has and will in the future materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, resume the payment of dividends to holders of Series B Shares and our common shareholder and pay a significant portion of the amount due holders of the Series B Shares upon redemption of such shares. For example, one of our largest tenants, Jenner & Block recently moved into space in a new development in the vicinity of our 330 N. Wabash Avenue property. Book losses that have been recognized and that may be recognized in the future have eroded, and may in the future erode, our book value. During 2008, we recognized aggregate losses of $66.0 million (including $5.6 million provision for asset impairment) related to our investment in Extended Stay, Inc. (“ESH”). Although these losses are non-cash GAAP losses, they have contributed to the erosion of the book value of our ESH investment to zero as of December 31, 2008, compared to $40.3 million at December 31, 2007. Consistent with our past practices and to the extent required by the accounting standards that apply to us, we may in the future take charges relating to other investments and assets which may also further reduce our book value. Although book value is reduced by non-cash charges such as depreciation and losses flowing through from ESH, reporting a low or negative book value could have adverse effects on us even if book value is not indicative of our actual value. These adverse effects may include our inability or a reduction in our ability (i) to finance or refinance our properties, (ii) lease space to tenants, (iii) consummate appropriate capital transactions, and (iv) continue to operate our business in the manner that we have in the past, and also may include a reduction in the market price of our Series B Shares. Our Board bases its decisions regarding dividends and other similar matters on the Company’s actual fair market net value and the solvency of the Company, among other things, which has significantly declined in part due to the current economic downturn and adverse financing conditions in the Chicago market and throughout the United States, and not on the book value of the Company. We may incur significant costs of complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, all public accommodations and commercial facilities are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers, and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the federal government or an award of damages to private litigants. Although we believe that our properties are substantially in compliance with these requirements, we may incur additional costs to comply with the ADA, especially in connection with the redevelopment of any of our properties. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, resume the payment of dividends to holders of Series B Shares and our common shareholder and pay a significant portion of the amount due holders of the Series B Shares upon redemption of such shares could be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Liabilities for environmental matters could adversely affect our financial condition. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances located on or in such property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator was responsible for, or even knew of, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of investigation, removal or remediation of such substances may be substantial, and the presence of such substances may adversely affect the owner’s or operator’s ability to rent or sell such property or to borrow funds using such property as collateral and may expose such owner or operator to liability resulting from any release of or exposure to such substances. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances at another location also may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at the disposal or treatment facility, whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such person. Certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may also seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials and other hazardous or toxic substances. In connection with the ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management and development of real properties, we may be considered an owner or operator of such properties or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and therefore potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other related costs, including governmental penalties and injuries to persons and property. See Item 1 — Business — Government Regulations — Environmental Matters of this report for a more detailed discussion of environmental matters affecting us. Future terrorist attacks in the United States could harm the demand for, and the values of, our properties. Future terrorist attacks in the United States, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, and other acts of terrorism or war could harm the demand for and the value of our properties. Terrorist attacks also could directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction, loss or increased security costs, and thereafter the availability of insurance for such acts may be limited or may cost more. To the extent that our tenants are impacted by any future attacks, their ability to continue to honor obligations under their existing leases with us could be adversely affected. In addition, certain tenants have termination rights in respect of certain casualties. If we receive casualty proceeds, we may not be able to reinvest such proceeds profitably or at all, and we may be forced to recognize taxable gain on the affected property. Our current and future joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on our joint venture partners’ financial condition and any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners. As of December 31, 2009, we owned one joint venture interest. In the future we may co-invest with, or sell interests in our existing properties to third parties through joint ventures. We may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the properties owned through joint ventures. Investments in joint ventures may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present when a third party is not involved, including the possibility that joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Joint venture partners may have business interests or goals that are 24 Table of Contents inconsistent with our business interests or goals and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments also may have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as those relating to a sale, refinancing or lease, because neither we nor the joint venture partner would have full control over the joint venture. Any disputes that may arise between us and the joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or trustees from focusing their time and effort principally on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with joint venture partners might result in subjecting properties owned by the joint venture to incur additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party joint venture partners. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 