Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS The following factors as well as other information contained in this report should be considered in making any investment decision related to our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Sales of our products depend on the availability and extent of government funding for public school reading intervention purchases, which is variable and outside the control of both us and our direct customers. If such funding becomes less available, our public school customers may be unable to purchase our products and services on a scale or at prices that we anticipate, which would materially and adversely impact our revenue and net income. United States public schools are funded primarily through state and local tax revenues, which are devoted primarily to school building costs, teacher salaries and general operating expenses. Public schools also receive funding from the federal government through a variety of federal programs, many of which target children who are poor and/or are struggling academically. Federal funds typically are restricted to specified uses. The funding for a substantial portion of our K-12 sales typically comes from federal sources, in particular IDEA (special education) and Title One funding. The amount of this funding varies from time to time, as do the rules governing the use of this funding. The Elementary and Secondary Education Act is scheduled for reauthorization in 2011, and there is much discussion about potential changes to some controversial provisions in the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001. While the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) provided for substantial temporary increases in federal programs, that funding is scheduled to expire in September 2011. In addition, the federal budget deficit and competing federal priorities could adversely impact the ongoing level of federal education funding. A cutback in federal education funding or a change in the funding rules to allow general rather than restricted uses of the funding could have a materially adverse impact on our revenue. State and local school funding continues to be significantly impacted by decreases in tax revenues due to the recent recession. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, to balance their fiscal 2011 budgets, states faced fiscal year 2011 (generally, July 2010 through June 2011) gaps totaling $130 billion, or 20 percent of budgets in 46 states. The Center forecasts continuing state budget difficulties in fiscal year 2012 and beyond, because federal stimulus assistance is expiring, unemployment remains high and tax revenues typically lag economic growth. While education spending remains an important priority for states, it faces competition from demands for, among other things, relief for the unemployed and homeowners, and rising healthcare costs. Many states have reduced their funding to schools, result ing in teacher layoffs and program restrictions. A continued reduction in state tax revenues could have a materially adverse impact on our revenue. Our sales cycle tends to be long and somewhat unpredictable, which may result in delayed or lost sales, materially and adversely impacting our revenue and profitability. Like other companies in the instructional market, our sales to K-12 schools are affected by school purchasing cycles and procedures, which can be quite bureaucratic. The cost of many of our K-12 license packages requires multiple levels of approval in a political environment, which results in a time-consuming sales cycle that can be difficult to predict, particularly in a tight funding environment. When a district decides to finance its license purchase, the time required to obtain necessary approvals can be extended even further. In addition, sales to schools are subject to budgeting constraints, which may require schools to find available discretionary funds, obtain grants or wait until subsequent budget cycles. As a result, our sales cycle generally takes months and, in some cases, can take a year or longer. Therefore, we may devote si gnificant time and energy to a particular customer sale over the course of many months, and then not make the sale when expected or at all. This can result in lost opportunities that can materially and adversely impact our revenue and operating results. It is difficult to accurately forecast our future financial results. This may cause us to fail to achieve the financial performance anticipated by investors and financial analysts, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Our revenue and net income or loss are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter and from year to year. In 2010, we had a net loss of $9.7 million, which included a non-cash impairment charge of $3.9 million; in 2009, we had net income of $4.8 million; in 2008, we had a net loss of approximately $3.3 million. Our sales strategy has primarily emphasized district-level, multi-site transactions. The receipt or implementation of a single large order, or conversely its loss or delay, can significantly impact the level of sales booked and revenue recognized in a given quarter. This uncertainty is compounded by the fact that our various license and service packages have substantially differing revenue recognition periods. Even when the amount and timing of a transaction can be accurately projected, it may be di fficult to predict which license package a customer will purchase. Our expense levels are based on our expectations of future revenue and are primarily fixed in the short term. We may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which could cause our net income to fluctuate unexpectedly. 8 Table of Contents Failure to achieve the financial results expected by investors and financial analysts in a given quarter could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. To grow our K-12 business, we need to increase acceptance of our products among K-12 education purchasers. Failure to do so would materially and adversely impact our growth prospects. Our Fast ForWord products use an approach that differs from the approaches that schools have traditionally used to address reading problems. In particular, our products, which are designed to develop the brain to process more efficiently, are based on neuroscience research and focus on building cognitive skills. These concepts may be unfamiliar to educators. K-12 educational practices are generally slow to change, and it can be difficult to convince educators of the value of a substantially different approach. In order to obtain the best student results from using our product, schools must follow a recommended protocol for Fast ForWord use, which requires at least 30 minutes per day out of a limited and already crowded school day. Our recommendation that schools follow a prescribed protocol in using our products may limit the number of schools willing to purchase from us. In addition, if our products are not used in accordance with the protocol, they may not produce the expected student results, which may lead to customer dissatisfaction and decreased revenue. Our products are generally implemented in a computer lab with a lab coach or teacher rather than in the classroom with the students’ regular classroom teachers. To reach a broader group of customers, encourage additional sales from existing customers and improve student achievement results, we need to better engage classroom teachers in the products’ implementation, in an effective and efficient manner. If we are unable to convince our market of the value of our significantly different approach and otherwise overcome the challenges identified above, our growth prospects could be materially and adversely impacted. If we determine that any of our intangible assets, including technology purchased in acquisitions, or goodwill are impaired, we would be required to take a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, such as core technology, related to our acquisition of the Soliloquy product line in January 2008. We periodically evaluate goodwill and all significant intangible assets for impairment. Because of our decision to migrate the core technology associated with the Reading Assistant product acquired from Soliloquy to a web-enabled delivery platform, we determined it was necessary to assess the recoverability of the asset group associated with generating Reading Assistant cash flows. Based on our impairment analysis, we incurred non-cash charges of $3.9 million related to the write-down of the Soliloquy core technology asset group in the fourth quarter of 2010. At December 31, 2010, after we recorded this impairment charge, we had $4.6 million of goodwill and $1.0 million of intangible assets. Significant judgments are required to estimate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets, including estimating future cash flows, projecting future sales, forecasting industry trends and market conditions, and making other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect our impairment determinations, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on studies of student performance results to demonstrate the effectiveness of our products. If the validity of these studies or the conclusions that we draw from them are challenged, our reputation could be harmed and our business prospects and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We rely heavily on statistical studies of student results on assessments to demonstrate that our products lead to improved student achievement, which involves certain risks. For example, a school may fail to appropriately implement the products or adhere to the product protocol, resulting in a study that does not produce substantial student improvements. In addition, some studies on which we rely may be challenged because the studies use a limited sample size, lack a randomly selected control group, include assistance or participation from us or our scientists, or have other design characteristics that are not optimal. These challengers may assert that these studies are not sufficiently rigorous or free from bias, and may lead to criticism of the validity of the studies and the conclusions that we draw from them. Our sales and marketing e fforts, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted if the studies upon which we rely to demonstrate the effectiveness of our products, or the conclusions we draw from those studies, are seen to be insufficient. We may not be able to develop new and improved products and services as needed to address changing market trends or emerging technologies in a timely and cost effective manner. We need to design, develop and introduce new and improved products and services on a cost effective basis and on a timeline that keeps pace with changing market trends and emerging technology developments. We have recently expanded our product development and product management groups, and we are planning important product improvements and new product launches in 2011. We may encounter unexpected difficulties developing new products and improvements that could delay our introduction of new products and services or cause their development to be more costly than planned. Additionally, our product changes may not receive the market acceptance we anticipate. If we fail to develop products and services cost effectively that respond to technology and market developments, we may lose market share and r evenue, and our business could materially suffer. 9 Table of Contents We may not be successful in executing our transition to a new business model. We are completing the development of the technology platform for our on-demand offering, which we expect will allow us to better address both the international, consumer and virtual school markets, as well as the U.S. K-12 market we now principally serve. We expect this transition will make us less dependent on large US K-12 transactions, and will significantly increase the number of smaller, more predictable transactions and recurring revenue. In order to accomplish this, we will need to complete our product development in a timely manner and achieve acceptance with new types of customers. We may find our marketing and sales efforts in this market less effective or more expensive than we have planned. If we fail to achieve the level of new market acceptance tha t we expect, we may be unable to achieve our planned level of sales and revenue from these markets. If our operations are disrupted due to weaknesses in our technology infrastructure, our business could be harmed. Providing our products and services and conducting our general business operations both substantially rely on computer and network systems. Over the past several years, our computer and network systems became outdated, and we have experienced disruptions in both our customer and internal network services due to hardware failures. We have now modernized much of our hardware infrastructure, and are in the midst of a major upgrade to our business software platforms. In addition, our disaster recovery capability, while improved, does not permit us to recover immediately from certain sorts of disasters. We believe that our business is becoming increasingly dependent on our hardware and software infrastructure, and as a result, the reliability of our systems has become increasingly important. If our customer sys tems are disrupted, we may be required to issue credits, customers may elect not to renew their contracts or not to purchase additional licenses, we may lose sales to potential customers and we may be subject to liability. If our internal systems are disrupted, we may lose productivity and incur delays in product development, sales operations or other functions. If our products contain errors or if customer access to our web-delivered products and services is disrupted, we could lose new sales and be subject to significant liability claims. Because our software products are complex, they may contain undetected errors or defects, known as bugs. Bugs can be detected at any point in a product’s life cycle, but are more common when a new product is introduced or when new versions are released. We expect that, as we have experienced in the past, despite our testing, errors will be found in new products and product enhancements in the future. We plan to launch important products and product improvements in 2011. Many of our products and services rely on the World Wide Web in order to function. Unanticipated problems affecting our network systems, third party facilities, telecommunications or electricity supply could cause interruptions or delays in the delivery of that product. We have experienced problems due to power loss in the past, and we will continue to be exposed to the risk of access failure in the future. If there are significant errors in our products or problems with customer access to our Web-delivered products and services, we could be required to issue credits or we could experience delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, diversion of our resources, decreases in expansions or renewals, injury to our reputation, increased service expenses or payment of damages. Our cash flow is highly variable and may not be sufficient to meet all of our objectives. We believe that cash flow from operations, together with our current cash and short-term investment balances, will be our primary source of funding for our operations during the next several years. During 2010, we used $4.2 million cash in operations, while in 2009 we generated $14.5 million in cash from operations and in 2008, used $3.7 million used in operating activities. Historically, we have used cash in our operations during the first half of the year and built cash in the second half. This pattern results largely from our seasonally low sales in the first calendar quarter, which reflects our industry pattern, and the time needed to collect on sales made towards the end of the second quarter. We maintain a credit line with Comerica Bank, with a limit of $7.5 million, expiring December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2010, no borrowing was outstanding under our credit line with Comerica, and we were in compliance with the covenants of the line. Borrowings under the line are subject to reporting covenants requiring the provision of financial statements to Comerica and financial covenants requiring us to maintain a minimum adjusted quick ratio of 1.15 and positive net worth. If we do not comply with the covenants, we risk being unable to borrow under the credit line. Funding our liquidity needs out of cash flow from operations will require us to achieve certain levels of booked sales, collections, and expenses. If we are unable to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow from operations, or are unable to obtain waivers or amendments from Comerica in the event we do not comply with our covenants, we would be required either to obtain debt or equity financing from other sources, or to reduce expenses. Reducing our expenses could adversely affect our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, if at all. 10 Table of Contents Our new product development office in China exposes us to new risks, including those associated with currency exchange rates, Chinese government regulations and business practices, and intellectual property. We established a wholly-owned subsidiary in Shanghai, China during the second quarter of 2010. The new entity provides us with product development services. To date, substantially all of our operations have been located in the United States, and our sales outside the United States and Canada have been made in U.S. Dollars to local distributors. Because our new Shanghai subsidiary will conduct its operations in Chinese RMB, we will now have the risk of unexpected and possibly sudden increases in expenses caused by shifts in currency exchange rates. In addition, Chinese government regulations and business practices are quite different from those in the United States, and operating under those regulations and challenges may pose unexpected costs, delays or difficulties. Further, intellectual property protection is not as str ong in China as in the U.S., and operating a product development group in China may increase our risk of infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property by others. Claims relating to data collection from our user base may subject us to liabilities and additional expense. Schools and clinicians that use our products frequently use students’ names to register them in our products and enter into our database academic, diagnostic and/or demographic information about the students. In addition, the results of student use of our products are uploaded to our database. We have designed our system to safeguard this personally-identifiable information, but the protection of such information is an area of increasing public concern and significant government regulation, including but not limited to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act. If our privacy protection measures prove to be ineffective, we could be subject to liability claims for unauthorized access to or misuses of personally-identifiable information stored in our database. We may also face additional expenses to analyze and comply with in creasing regulation in this area. We may not be able to compete effectively in the education market. The market in which we operate is very competitive. We compete vigorously for the funding available to schools, including against other software-based reading intervention products but also against print and service-based offerings from other companies and against traditional methods of teaching language and reading. Many of the companies providing these competitive offerings are much larger than we are, are more established in the school market than we are, offer a broader range of products to schools, have already offered more Web-based products, and have greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than we do. In addition, although traditional approaches to language and reading are fundamentally different from our approach, the traditional methods are more widely known and accepted and, therefore, represent signif icant competition for available funds. If we lose key personnel or are unable to hire additional qualified personnel as necessary, we may not be able to achieve our business goals, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results and share price. We depend on the performance of our senior management, sales, marketing, development, research, educational, finance and other administrative personnel with extensive experience in our industry and with our Company. The loss of key personnel could harm our ability to execute our business strategy, which could adversely affect our financial results and share price. In addition, we believe that our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to identify, hire, retain and motivate highly skilled employees who are in great demand. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. If we are unable to maintain our access to the intellectual property rights that we license from third parties, our sales and net income will be materially and adversely affected. Our most important products are based on licensed inventions owned by the University of California and Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey. These licensed patents expire in 2014. In 2010, we generated approximately 60% of our booked sales from products that use this licensed technology. We also have incorporated technology and content licensed from other third parties as part of our products and services. If we were to lose our rights under these licenses (whether through expiration of our exclusive license period, expiration of the underlying patent’s exclusivity, invalidity or unenforceability of the underlying patents, a breach by us of the terms of the license agreements or otherwise), such a loss of these licensed rights or a requirement that we must re-negotiate these licenses could materially harm our booke d sales, our revenue and our net income. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we infringe on the rights of others, we could become subject to significant liabilities, need to seek licenses or lose our rights to sell our products. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on whether we are able to maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. It is possible that our issued patents will be found invalid or will not offer sufficient protection against competitors, that our trademarks will be challenged or infringed, or that our pending patent applications will not result in the issuance of patents. If others are able to develop similar products due to the expiration, unenforceability or invalidity of the underlying patents, the resulting competition could materially harm our sales. The Company historically has not registered its copyrights in the United States, which may make it difficult to collect damages from a third party that may be infringing a Company copyright. 11 Table of Contents In addition, we could become party to patent or trademark infringement claims, litigation or interference proceedings. These proceedings could result from claims that we are violating the rights of others or may be necessary to enforce our own rights. Any such proceedings would result in substantial expense and significant diversion of management effort, and the outcome of any such proceedings cannot be accurately predicted. An adverse determination in such proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture or increase their market share with respect to related technologies. Further, if unauthorized copying or misuse of our products were to occur to a substantial degree, our sales could be adversely affected. Our common stock is thinly traded and its price is volatile. Our common stock presently trades on the Nasdaq Global Market, and our trading volume is generally low. For example during 2010, our average daily trading volume was approximately 26,000 shares. As a result, the ability of holders of our common stock to sell such common stock and thereby monetize their investment may be limited. In addition, the market price of our common stock has been highly volatile since we became publicly traded and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. The ownership of our common stock is concentrated. At December 31, 2010, Trigran Investments owned approximately 28% of our outstanding stock, and our officers and directors held approximately 11% of the outstanding stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, and may have interests that diverge from those of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also delay, prevent or deter a change in control of the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 