Item 1A. Risk Factors The following sets forth risk factors that may affect our future results. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected due to any of the following risks. We face risks described but not limited to those detailed below. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes. We are dependent on sales to a relatively small number of customers and a disruption in sales to any one of these customers could materially harm our financial results. Our business is highly dependent on a limited number of customers. For example, sales to HP accounted for 33% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008, 51% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 57% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. In addition, sales to NetApp accounted for 23% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008, 25% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 26% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. We expect HP will represent greater than 10% of our overall net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011. If our relationships with HP or certain of our other customers were disrupted or declined significantly, we would lose a substantial portion of our anticipated net revenue and our business could be materially harmed. We cannot guarantee that our relationship with HP or our other customers will expand or not otherwise be disrupted. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we decided to exit our low margin business with NetApp and amended our agreement with NetApp to allow them to manufacture and sell on a royalty-free basis all of the products we previously manufactured and sold to them beginning on or about December 1, 2010. As a result, we currently do not anticipate generating any additional revenue from NetApp. We expect to generate additional revenue from our indirect channel sales, from sales of our AssuredUVS and AssuredVRA products and from potential new OEM customers to replace the revenue, and more importantly, the gross profit lost as a result of amending our agreement with NetApp. However, if we are unable to generate sufficient gross profit from these sources to largely replace the gross profit previously associated with NetApp, our financial results could be harmed. Factors that could influence our relationship with our significant customers and other potential new customers include: • our ability to maintain our products at prices that are competitive with those of our competitors; • our ability to maintain quality levels for our products sufficient to meet the expectations of our customers; • our ability to produce, ship and deliver a sufficient quantity of our products in a timely manner to meet the needs of our customers; • our ability to continue to develop and launch new products that our customers feel meet their needs and requirements, with respect to cost, timeliness, features, performance and other factors; • our ability to provide timely, responsive and accurate customer support to our customers; and • the ability of our customers to effectively deliver, market and increase sales of their own solutions based on our products. Product recalls, epidemic failures, post-manufacture repairs of our products, liability claims and associated costs could harm our reputation, divert resources, reduce sales and increase costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our new integrated storage systems and newly acquired products obtained in the Cloverleaf acquisition, as well as our legacy products, may contain undetected errors, or failures that become epidemic failures, which may 19 Table of Contents be discovered after shipment, resulting in a loss of net revenue, an increase in costs to rework or replace failed products, product liability claims, a tarnished reputation, a loss of customers, or a loss or delay in market acceptance of our products, any of which could harm or disrupt our business. Product failures or recalls could be the result of components purchased from our suppliers not meeting the required specifications or containing undetected quality errors and manufacturing defects or from our own design deficiencies. In 2009 and 2010, we experienced quality issues associated with certain power supply devices provided by one of our component suppliers that required us to make substantial repairs and provide replacement parts. Our component supplier has agreed to reimburse us for the significant majority of costs of the replacement parts and related expenses. Although our component supplier has reimbursed us or committed to reimburse us for the significant majority of all of our costs incurred through December 31, 2010, there could be significant additional costs passed onto us by our customers. To the extent that our customers provide us with claims for reimbursement for product quality issues caused by this component supplier, we believe that our component supplier is contractually obligated to reimburse us for any such costs. An estimate as to the possible amount of claims or range of claims that our customers may present to us related to these product quality issues cannot be made as of December 31, 2010. To the extent that our component supplier cannot or does not continue to reimburse us for the significant majority of all expenses incurred by us or our customers we could incur material amounts of warranty claims and expenses. Even if the errors are detected before shipment, such errors could result in the halting of production, delay of shipments, recovery costs, loss of goodwill, tarnishment of reputation and/or a substantial decrease in net revenue. Our standard warranty provides that if our systems do not function to published specifications, we will repair or replace the defective component or system without charge generally for a period of approximately three years. We generally extend to our customers the warranties provided to us by our suppliers and, accordingly, the majority of our warranty obligations to customers are intended to be covered by corresponding supplier warranties. There can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to provide such warranties to us in the future or that our warranty obligations to our customers will be covered by corresponding warranties from our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Significant warranty costs could decrease our gross margin and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, defects in our products could result in our customers claiming property damages, consequential damages, or bodily injury, which could also result in our loss of customers and goodwill. There can be no assurance that our customers will not assert claims that our products have failed to meet agreed-to specifications or that they have sustained injuries from our products, and we may be subject to lawsuits relating to these claims. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside of the scope of our insurance coverage. Significant claims exceeding our expected warranty provisions could distract management’s attention from operating our business and, if successful, result in material claims against us that might not be covered by our insurance. Our recent acquisition of Cloverleaf may not be successfully integrated or produce the results we anticipate. In January 2010, we acquired Cloverleaf, a privately held software company, based primarily in Israel. The Cloverleaf acquisition provided us with a new team of software development and other professionals. Cloverleaf’s products provide heterogeneous storage virtualization and unified storage technologies that can simplify data center management, eliminate downtime and reduce storage costs. The Cloverleaf Intelligent Storage Networking System—iSN™ trade name is an intelligent, network resident, storage network management system that provides a combination of benefits, features and capabilities targeted to meet the demands of mid to large-sized data centers. Cloverleaf was our first acquisition involving significant international operations. We expect that the integration of Cloverleaf’s operations with our own will be a complex, time-consuming and costly process involving typical acquisition risks and related challenges, some of which are discussed below: • operating as a larger combined company with operations in Israel, where we have limited operational experience; • managing geographically dispersed personnel with diverse cultural backgrounds and organizational structures; 20 Table of Contents • the greater cash management, exchange rate, legal and income taxation risks associated with the combined company’s new multinational character and the movement of cash between Dot Hill and its domestic and foreign subsidiaries; • assessing and maintaining the combined company’s internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures as required by U.S. securities laws; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of our business; • potential incompatibility of business cultures and/or loss of key personnel; • difficulties in integrating the personnel, operations, technology or products and service offerings of Cloverleaf; • products derived from this acquisition may not meet the needs of customers or their expectations with respect to reliability; • insufficient net revenue to offset increased expenses associated with the Cloverleaf acquisition; • increased professional advisor fees related to the new profile of the combined company; • the costs and effects of the purchase accounting associated with this acquisition; • the possibility that we may incur unanticipated expenses in connection with this transaction or be required to expend material sums on potential contingent intellectual property, tax, environmental or other liabilities associated with Cloverleaf’s prior operations or facilities; • increased difficulty in financial forecasting due to our limited familiarity with Cloverleaf’s operations, customers and markets or their impact on the overall results of operations of the combined company; • our ability to sell and support installations of the acquired Cloverleaf products; • market and customer receptivity to the acquired Cloverleaf products; and • the ability of our open storage partners to sell and support the acquired Cloverleaf products. In addition, the accounting treatment for the Cloverleaf acquisition resulted in significant amortizable intangible assets, which when amortized negatively affects our consolidated results of operations. The accounting treatment for the Cloverleaf acquisition also resulted in significant goodwill, which, if impaired, will negatively affect our consolidated results of operations. Failure to successfully address one or more of the above risks may result in unanticipated liabilities and cash outlays, lower than expected net revenue, losses from operations, failure to realize any of the expected benefits of the acquisition, and potentially related declines in our stock price. Our inability to grow and manage our indirect sales channel may significantly impact our ability to increase net revenue, gross margin and operating income. We have recently expanded our indirect sales model to access end-user markets primarily through our distributors, VARs and OSPs and are investing significant monetary and human resources in order to grow this indirect sales channel. If we cannot successfully identify, manage, develop, and generate sufficient net revenue through our indirect sales channel, our business could be harmed. In addition, even if we are able to grow our indirect sales channel, managing the interaction of our OEMs’, distributors’, VARs’ and OSPs’ efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each channel method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our net revenue and gross margin and our profitability. 21 Table of Contents Recent turmoil in the global economy, credit markets and the financial services industry may negatively impact our net revenue, access to capital, our customers’ access to capital and ability to pay for their purchases in a timely manner, and our suppliers’ access to capital and ability to provide us with goods and timely delivery, or willingness to provide credit terms to us. The current global economic condition could continue to affect the demand for our products and negatively impact our net revenue and operating profit. We are unable to predict changes in general macroeconomic conditions and when, or if, global IT spending rates will be affected and to what degree they will be impacted. Furthermore, even if IT spending rates increase, we cannot be certain that the market for external storage solutions will be positively impacted. If there are future reductions in either domestic or international IT spending rates, or if IT spending rates do not increase, our net revenue, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, the global economic condition could also adversely impact our customers, and/or their customers, ability to finance the purchase of storage systems from us or our suppliers’ ability to provide us with product, any of which may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our smaller customers may not be as well capitalized as, nor do they have the financial resources of, our larger customers. In addition, sales to all our customers are typically made on credit without collateral. There is a risk that customers will not pay, or that payment may be delayed, because of their liquidity constraints, or because they are awaiting payment from their customers, or other factors beyond our control, which could increase our exposure to losses from bad debts, or increase accounts receivable, and thus reduce cash. Our third-party manufacturers rely on other third parties to supply key components of our storage products. Some of these components are available only from one or limited sources in the quantities and quality we require. Should any of the component suppliers cease to operate due to current economic conditions or otherwise, we would have to qualify and locate alternative suppliers. We estimate that replacing key components we currently use in our products with those of another supplier could involve several months of hardware and software modification, which could significantly harm our ability to meet our customers’ orders for our products, damage our customer relationships and result in a loss of sales. Our manufacturing suppliers provide us with credit terms that have in some cases been negotiated and documented in our manufacturing agreements. The credit terms we receive from these suppliers vary amongst our manufacturing partners but they all provide for adequate credit limits and credit terms. Should any of our manufacturing partners reduce our credit limits or shorten payment terms, due to their inability to purchase credit insurance or due to uncertainty regarding our financial position, our cash resources and working capital could be significantly impacted. Our contracts with our customers do not include minimum purchase requirements and are not exclusive, and we cannot assure you that our relationship with these customers will not be terminated or will generate significant sales. None of our contracts with our existing customers, including HP, contain minimum purchase commitments and our customers may cancel purchase orders at any time, cease making purchases or elect not to renew the applicable contract upon the expiration of the current term. Consequently, our customers generally order only through written purchase orders. Further, we do not expect that future contracts with customers, if any, will include any minimum purchase commitments. Changes in the timing, or volume of purchases by our major customers, could result in lower net revenue. For example, we cannot be certain that our sales to any of our customers will continue at historical levels or will reach expected levels. In addition, our existing contracts do not require our customers to purchase our products exclusively or on a preferential basis over the products of any of our competitors. Consequently, to the extent they are not sole sourced, our customers may sell the products of our competitors. The decision by any of our customers to cancel purchase orders, cease making purchases or terminate their respective contracts could cause our net revenue to decline substantially, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. 22 Table of Contents We sell on a purchase order basis, making us subject to uncertainties and variability in demand by our customers, and our component suppliers may make obsolete certain components we incorporate into our products, either of which could decrease net revenue and adversely affect our operating results. We sell to our customers on a purchase order basis rather than pursuant to long-term contracts or contracts with minimum purchase requirements. Consequently, our sales are subject to demand variability by our customers. The level and timing of orders placed by our customers vary for a variety of reasons, including seasonal buying by end-users, the introduction of new technologies and general economic conditions. Customers submitting a purchase order may cancel, reduce or delay their orders. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demands of our customers, we may lose customers because we have an inadequate supply of products, or we may have excess inventory which may have to be sold in the open market at a substantial discount, if at all possible, either of which may harm our business, financial position and operating results. In addition, there are occasions when some of our component suppliers make obsolete certain components that we incorporate into our products. In these situations we may be required to purchase such components on a “last time buy” basis, based on our forecasts of customer demand. If we incorrectly forecast customer demand or if our customers over or under forecast demand, we may have an inadequate supply of products, or we may have excess inventory which may have to be sold in the open market at a substantial discount, if at all possible, either of which may harm our business, financial position and operating results. Our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer and future net revenue in any period may be lower than our historical net revenue or forecasts. Our sales are difficult to forecast because the open systems storage market is rapidly evolving and our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer. Customer orders for our products can range in value from a few thousand dollars to over a million dollars. The length of time between initial contact with a potential customer and the sale of our product may last from 6 to 36 months. This is particularly true during times of economic slowdown and when selling products that require complex installations. Additional factors that may extend our sales cycle, particularly orders for new products, include: • the amount of time needed for technical evaluations by customers; • customers’ budget constraints and changes to customers’ budgets during the course of the sales cycle; • customers’ internal review and testing procedures; • our engineering work necessary to integrate a storage solution with a customer’s system; • the complexity of technical challenges that need to be overcome during the development, testing and/or qualification process for new products and/or new customers; • meeting unique customer specifications and requirements; and • difficulties by our customers in integrating our products and technologies into their own products. Our net revenue is difficult for us to predict since it is directly affected by the timing of large orders. We may ship products representing a significant portion of our net revenue for a quarter during the last month of that quarter. In addition, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future sales. As a result, if sales levels are below expectations, our operating results may be disproportionately affected. We cannot assure you that our sales will not decline in future periods. The open systems storage market is rapidly changing and we may be unable to keep pace with or properly prepare for the effects of those changes and if we fail to develop and market new software and hardware products that meet customer requirements, our business will be harmed. The open systems data storage market in which we operate is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, new interface protocol, evolving industry standards and consolidation among 23 Table of Contents our competitors, suppliers and customers. Customer preferences in this market are difficult to predict and changes in those preferences and the introduction of new products by our competitors, new entrants into the open systems storage market, or us could render our existing products obsolete or uncompetitive. Our success will depend upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of customers, to enhance existing products, and to develop and introduce on a timely basis, new competitive products, including new software and hardware, and enhancements to existing software and hardware that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. If we cannot successfully identify, manage, develop, manufacture or market product enhancements or new products, our business will be harmed. In addition, consolidation among our competitors, suppliers and customers may harm our business by increasing the resources of our competitors, reducing the number of suppliers available to us for our product components and increasing competition for customers by reducing the number of customer-purchasing decisions. We believe that to remain competitive, we will need to continue to develop new hardware and software products, which will require a significant investment in new product development. Our competitors and new market participants may be developing alternative technologies, which may adversely affect the market acceptance of our products. If alternative technologies and interface protocols are adopted by the industry that we have not incorporated into our products, we may become uncompetitive and not have product offerings for select market segments. Even if our new products are developed on time, we may not be able to manufacture them at competitive prices or in sufficient volumes. We may not be able to reduce expenses timely in response to any shortfalls in net revenue or gross margin. We primarily sell to HP and thus do not need to make substantial incremental investments in sales and marketing to generate demand for our products to our largest customer. Additionally we outsource substantially all of our manufacturing to very large contract manufacturing partners in Asia. Hence, there is little incremental cost required to increase our production capacity. Furthermore, we have an adopted modular architecture to our storage systems products and consequently if our customers do not require substantial customization, we are able to launch products based on existing product platforms for new OEMs or channel partners at modest incremental expenditures. In the past we have taken and may have to take further measures to reduce expenses if net revenue or gross margins decline and we experience greater operating losses or do not achieve profitable results. A number of factors could preclude us from successfully bringing variable costs and expenses in line with our net revenue, such as the fact that our variable expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future sales. This limits our ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any shortfalls in net revenue or gross margin. Consequently, if net revenue does not generate enough gross margin to cover operating expenses, our operating results may be negatively affected. The market for storage products is intensely competitive and subject to substantial pricing pressure that may harm our net revenue, gross margin and operating results. The storage market is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapidly changing technology. For our AssuredSAN storage hardware products, we compete primarily against independent storage system suppliers, including EMC Corp., or EMC, Hitachi Data Systems Corp., or Hitachi, Engenio Information Technologies, Inc., a subsidiary of LSI Logic Corp., or LSI, Infortrend, and Xyratex Ltd., or Xyratex. We also compete with traditional suppliers of computer systems, including IBM, Oracle, Dell and HP, which market storage systems as well as other computer products. For our AssuredVRA products we compete primarily with LSI and Intel, and for our AssuredUVS products we compete primarily with Falconstor Software Inc., or Falconstor and Compellent, which was recently acquired by Dell. Future competitors could include original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers, some of whom we partner with today. 24 Table of Contents Many of our existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, they may have more advanced technology, larger distribution channels, stronger brand names, better customer service and access to more customers than we do. Other large companies with significant resources could become direct competitors, either through acquiring a competitor or through internal efforts. Additionally, a number of public and privately held companies are currently attempting to enter the storage market, some of which may become significant competitors in the future. In the future, it is conceivable that we could compete with some of the original design manufacturers, one of whom is currently our manufacturing partner, as they develop expertise in chassis design and power and cooling technologies. We could also lose current or future business to certain of our suppliers or manufacturers, some of which directly and indirectly compete with us. Currently, we leverage our supply and manufacturing relationships to provide substantially all of our products. Our suppliers and manufacturers are very familiar with the specific attributes of our products and may be able to provide our customers with similar products. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidation and the creation of companies with new, innovative product offerings. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors, or alliances among competitors, may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, and may reduce operating margins and create a potential loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the storage systems market include: performance, features, scalability and reliability; price; product breadth; product availability and quality; timeliness of new product introductions; interoperability; and ease of management. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully incorporate these factors into our products and compete against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. If we are unable to cost effectively develop and market products to compete with the products of competitors, our business will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if major customers who are also competitors cease purchasing our products in order to concentrate on sales of their own products, our business will be harmed. Additional pricing pressures are due, in part, to continuing decreases in component prices, such as those of disks, memory, semiconductors and RAID controllers. Decreases in component prices are typically passed on to customers by storage companies through a continuing decrease in the price of storage hardware systems. Pricing pressures could also result when we cannot pass increased material costs onto our customers. For example, if fuel prices were to increase significantly again, this could result in higher steel and freight costs which we may not be able to pass onto our customers. Pricing pressures also exist from our significant customers that may attempt to change the terms, including pricing and payment terms of their agreements, with us. As our customers are pressured to reduce prices as a result of competitive factors, we may be required to contractually, or otherwise, commit to price reductions for our products prior to determining if we can implement corresponding cost reductions. If we are unable to achieve such cost reductions, or are unable to pass along cost increases to our customers, and have to reduce the pricing of our products, our gross margin may be negatively impacted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to lower product costs or changes in the mix of products we sell may significantly impact our gross margin and results of operations. Our gross margin is determined in large part based on our contract manufacturing costs, our component costs, the timing and magnitude of product cost reductions, and our ability to include RAID controllers and value 25 Table of Contents added features into our products, such as DMS, as well as the prices at which we sell our products. The amount of revenue recognized from software and service sales and the relative mix of such sales in comparison to sales of our other products will also impact our gross margin, as the gross margin on sales of software and services is higher than that of our other products. If we are unable to lower production costs to be consistent with our projections or if we experience any decline in selling prices, our gross margin and results of operations may suffer. Some of the new products we are currently shipping or expect to begin shipping are in the early stages of their lifecycle. Our historical experience indicates that gross margin on new products are low initially and increase over time as a result of maturing manufacturing processes, component cost reductions and re-engineering the products to reduce costs. If we fail to achieve these improvements, our gross margin will be negatively impacted and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. In addition, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which is highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. Our customer’s forecasts have not historically demonstrated a high degree of accuracy. From time to time, in response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from our outside suppliers, we may order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. This advance ordering may result in excess inventory levels or unanticipated inventory write-downs due to expected orders that fail to materialize. Additional factors which could adversely impact gross margin dollars and gross margin percentage include: • changes in the mix of products we sell to our customers; • increased price competition; • introduction of new products by us or our competitors, including products with price performance advantages; • our inability to reduce production or component costs; • entry into new markets or the acquisition of new customers; • sales discounts and marketing development funds; • increases in material or labor costs; • excess inventory, inventory shrinkages and losses and inventory holding charges; • the timing of purchase price variances resulting from reductions in component costs purchased on our behalf by our contract manufacturers or owned by us in inventory versus the original cost of those components; • increased warranty costs and costs associated with any potential future product quality and product defect issues; • our inability to sell our higher performance products, or our software products and our services; • component shortages which can result in expedite fees, overtime or increased use of air freight; and • increased freight costs resulting from higher fuel prices, or from the need to expedite shipments of components to our contract manufacturers or finished goods to some of our customers and their hub locations. Our customers may have very aggressive product launch and ramp schedules and our efforts to accommodate these schedules may divert our management’s attention, cause component shortages and force us to allocate products across many customers, all of which could harm our customer relations. Our efforts to accommodate our customers’ aggressive launch and ramp schedules can divert management’s attention from the rest of our business and force us to allocate product volumes across many customers due to component shortages, all of which could harm our relations with customers. In addition, we could incur overtime, 26 Table of Contents expedite charges, and other charges such as shipping products by air as opposed to by ocean as a result of efforts to meet such schedules. Any of these factors could result in lower net revenue and gross margin as well as increased operating expenses which could have an impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Manufacturing and supplier disruptions could harm our business. We primarily rely on Foxconn to manufacture the majority of all of our products. If our agreement with Foxconn is terminated, or if they do not perform their obligations under our agreement, or if we otherwise determine to transition manufacturing of our products to another third party manufacturer, it could take several months to establish and qualify alternative manufacturing for our products and we may not be able to fulfill our customers’ orders in a timely manner. If our agreement with Foxconn terminates, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify a suitable alternative manufacturing partner that meets the requirements of our customers and one that is cost competitive. Failure to identify a suitable alternative manufacturing partner could impact our customer relationships and our financial condition. Due to our use of third-party manufacturers, our ability to control the timing of shipments could decrease. Delayed shipment could result in the deferral or cancellation of purchases of our products. Any significant deferral or cancellation of these sales would harm our results of operations in any particular quarter. Net revenue for a period may be lower than predicted if large orders forecasted for that period are delayed or are not realized, which could also impact cash flow or result in a decline in our stock price. To the extent we establish a relationship with an alternative manufacturer for our products, we may be able to partially mitigate potential disruptions to our business. We may also suffer manufacturing disruptions as we ramp up manufacturing processes for newly introduced products, which could result in delays in delivery of these products to our customers and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, production of our products could be disrupted as a result of geo-political events in Asia and other manufacturing locations. We also generally extend to our customers the warranties provided to us by our suppliers and, accordingly, the majority of our warranty obligations to customers are covered by supplier warranties. For warranty costs not covered by our suppliers, we reserve for estimated warranty costs in the period the net revenue is recognized. There can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to provide such warranties to us in the future, or that we have estimated these costs correctly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any shortage of disk drives, memory or other components could increase our costs or harm our ability to manufacture and deliver our storage products to our customers in a timely manner. From time to time there is significant market demand for disk drives, semiconductors, memory and other components, and we may experience component shortages, selective supply allocations and increased prices of such components. In such event, we may be required to purchase our components from alternative suppliers, and we cannot be certain that alternative sources of supplies will be available on competitive terms. Even if alternative sources of supply for critical components such as disk drives and memory become available, incorporating substitute components into our products could delay our ability to deliver our products in a timely manner. Demand for disk drives and memory has at times surpassed supply, forcing drive, memory and component suppliers, including those who supply the components that are integrated into many of our storage products, to manage allocation of their inventory. If such a shortage were prolonged, we may be forced to pay higher prices for disk drives, memory or components or may be unable to purchase sufficient quantities of these components to meet our customers’ demand for our storage products in a timely manner or at all. Similar circumstances could occur with respect to other necessary components. 27 Table of Contents We may continue to experience losses in the future, and may have difficulty forecasting future operating results, which could result in revenue and earnings volatility, which could cause our stock price to decline. For the year ended December 31, 2010 we incurred a net loss of $13.3 million. For the year ended December 31, 2009 we incurred a net loss of $13.6 million. We expect our business to remain volatile as we are often unable to reliably predict net revenue from HP and our other customers. Our ability to reliably predict net revenue has become more challenging as a result of our recent acquisition of Cloverleaf and the termination of our relationship with NetApp. Net revenue from our customers, the mix of products sold to our customers, our ability to introduce new products as planned and our ability to reduce product costs and manage our operating expenses and manufacturing variances will continue to affect our financial results for 2011. Consequently, we cannot assure you that we will be profitable in any future period. Our future operating results and profitability will depend on, and could vary substantially as a result of many factors, including: • our ability to maintain and enhance relationships with our customers, in particular our OEM customers, as well as our ability to win new business; • our ability to implement and achieve targeted gross margin and cost reduction objectives and; • our ability to contain operating expenses and manufacturing variances; • our ability to meet product delivery schedules for HP and other customers which could result in increased air freight, expedite and overtime charges; • the extent to which we invest in new initiatives such as channel sales and software development; • our plans to maintain and enhance our engineering, research, development and product testing programs; • the success of our manufacturing strategy and relationships with our contract manufacturing partners; • the success of our sales and marketing efforts; • the amount of field failures resulting in product replacements, recalls or customer penalties; • the extent and terms of any development, marketing or other arrangements; • changes in economic, regulatory or competitive conditions, including the current worldwide economic crisis; • increased costs associated with our Israeli operations; • costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing intellectual property rights; and • costs of litigating and defending law suits. Our success depends significantly upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and to avoid infringing the intellectual property of third parties, which has already resulted in costly, time-consuming litigation and could result in the inability to offer certain products. We rely primarily on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and common law to protect our intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property from third party discovery and infringement may be insufficient and third parties may independently develop technologies similar to ours, duplicate our products or design around our patents. 28 Table of Contents In addition, third parties may assert infringement claims against us, which would require us to incur substantial license fees, legal fees and other expenses, and distract management from the operations of our business. We expect that providers of storage products will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors increase. We receive, from time to time, letters from third parties suggesting that we may require a license from such third parties to manufacture or sell our products. We evaluate all such communications to assess whether to seek a license from the patent owner. We may be required to purchase licenses that could have a material impact on our business, or, we may not be able to obtain the necessary license from a third party on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Consequently, we could be prohibited from selling and marketing products that incorporate the protected technology or incur substantial costs to redesign our products in a manner to avoid infringement of third party intellectual property rights. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our performance depends in significant part on our ability to attract and retain talented senior management and other key personnel. Our key personnel include Dana Kammersgard, our Chief Executive Officer and President, Hanif Jamal, our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Corporate Secretary, James Kuenzel, our Senior Vice President of Engineering and Ernest Hafersat, our Senior Vice President of World-Wide Manufacturing, Operations, and Supply Base Management. If any of these individuals were to terminate his employment with us, we would be required to locate and hire a suitable replacement. In addition, if any of our additional key engineering, sales and general and administrative employees were to terminate their employment with us, our business could be harmed. Competition for attracting talented employees in the technology industry can be intense. We may be unable to identify suitable replacements for any employees that we lose. In addition, even if we are successful in locating suitable replacements, the time and cost involved in recruiting, hiring, training and integrating new employees, particularly key employees responsible for significant portions of our operations, could harm our business by delaying our production schedule, our research and development efforts, our ability to execute on our business strategy and our client development and marketing efforts. In the second quarter of 2010, our management approved, committed to, and initiated a restructuring and cost reduction plan, or the 2010 Plan, to better align our resources in order to lower our breakeven point. The 2010 Plan included, among other things, severance and related costs for the reduction of approximately 10% of our workforce, a 10% salary reduction for all employees at or above the vice-president level and a 5% salary reduction for certain other employee groups. As a result of these actions, we may experience higher employee attrition rates, which would require us to locate and hire suitable replacements and could cause our business to be harmed. Many of our customer relationships are based on personal relationships between the customer and our executives or sales representatives. If these representatives terminate their employment with us, we may be forced to expend substantial resources to attempt to retain the customers that the sales representatives serviced. Ultimately, if we were unsuccessful in retaining these customers, our net revenue would decline. Our inability to further develop and increase sales from our AssuredVRA software may significantly impact our ability to increase net revenue, gross margin and operating income. In September 2008, we bought certain assets from Ciprico including RAIDCore, now AssuredVRA. We have an agreement with one primary partner to market or integrate AssuredVRA into their solutions. While we restructured the agreement in the third quarter of 2010 so that the revenue generated under the agreement should exceed the costs of developing, manufacturing and marketing these products, we cannot be assured that revenue will exceed costs in the future, which could cause our financial results to be negatively impacted and could also result in an impairment of our related intangible assets. 29 Table of Contents Protective provisions in our charter and bylaws and the existence of our stockholder rights plan could prevent a takeover which could harm our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain a number of provisions that could impede a takeover or prevent us from being acquired, including, but not limited to, a classified board of directors, the elimination of our stockholders’ ability to take action by written consent and limitations on the ability of our stockholders to remove a director from office without cause. Our board of directors may issue additional shares of common stock or establish one or more classes or series of preferred stock with such designations, relative voting rights, dividend rates, liquidation and other rights, preferences and limitations as determined by our board of directors without stockholder approval. In addition, we adopted a stockholder rights plan in May 2003 that is designed to impede takeover transactions that are not supported by our board of directors. Each of these charter and bylaw provisions and the stockholder rights plan gives our board of directors, acting without stockholder approval, the ability to prevent, or render more difficult or costly, the completion of a takeover transaction that our stockholders might view as being in their best interests. Unanticipated changes in tax laws or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rates have recently been and could in the future be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those tax laws, by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, by discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Our effective income tax rates are also affected by intercompany transactions for licenses, services, funding and other items. Additionally, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities which may result in the assessment of additional income taxes. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations. However, there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants may result in dilution to our stockholders. We have a large number of outstanding stock options and warrants. Dilution of the per share value of our common stock could result from the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants. When the exercise price of outstanding stock options and warrants is less than the trading price of our common stock, the exercise of such stock options and warrants would have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. The possibility of the issuance of shares of our common stock upon exercise of stock options and warrants could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Furthermore, it is also possible that future large customers or suppliers may make our relationship with them contingent on receiving warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. The impact of potentially issuing additional warrants could have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. Our stock price may be highly volatile and could decline substantially and unexpectedly, which can and has in some cases resulted in litigation. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially, and there can be no assurance that such volatility will not continue. Several factors could impact our stock price including, but not limited to: • differences between our actual operating results and the published expectations of analysts; • quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; • mergers and acquisitions in the data storage marketplace; 30 Table of Contents • introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by our competitors or us; • conditions in the markets in which we operate; • changes in market projections by industry forecasters; • changes in estimates of our earnings by us or industry analysts; • overall market conditions for high technology equities; • rumors or dissemination of false information; and • general economic and geopolitical conditions. It is often the case that securities class action litigation is brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Securities litigation could result in the expenditure of substantial funds, divert management’s attention and resources, harm our reputation in the industry and the securities markets and reduce our profitability. Future sales of our common stock may hurt our market price. A significant portion of our common stock is owned by a few institutional stockholders. As a result, a substantial number of shares of our common stock may become available for resale. If these or other of our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at times and prices that we deem appropriate. Our system of internal controls may be inadequate. We maintain a system of internal controls in order to ensure we are able to collect, process, summarize, and disclose the information required by the Securities and Exchange Commission within the time periods specified. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Due to these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Additionally, public companies in the United States are required to review their internal controls under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If the internal controls put in place by us are not adequate or fail to perform as anticipated, errors could occur that would not be detected, which could require us to restate our consolidated financial statements, receive an adverse audit opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, and/or take other actions that will divert significant financial and managerial resources, as well as be subject to fines and/or other government enforcement actions. Furthermore, the price of our stock could be adversely affected. Environmental compliance costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our products are subject to various laws governing chemical substances in products, including those regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. We could incur substantial costs, or our products could be restricted from entering certain countries, if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. We face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances that apply to specified electronic products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS). We design our products to ensure that they comply with these requirements as well as related requirements imposed by our customers. We are also 31 Table of Contents working with our suppliers to provide us with compliant materials, parts and components. If our products do not comply with the European substance restrictions, we could become subject to fines, civil or criminal sanctions, and contract damage claims. In addition, we could be prohibited from shipping non-compliant products into the European Union, and required to recall and replace any products already shipped, if such products were found to be non-compliant, which would disrupt our ability to ship products and result in reduced net revenue, increased obsolete or excess inventories and harm to our business and customer relationships. Various other countries and states in the United States have issued, or are in the process of issuing, other environmental regulations that may impose additional restrictions or obligations and require further changes to our products. These regulations could impose a significant cost of doing business in those countries and states. The European Union has enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Canada, Mexico, China and Japan, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 