ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, may also harm our business. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any such additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. You should consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained in this report, including, but not limited to, the financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business Loan losses would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results and could cause our insolvency, which would negatively impact the value of our common stock. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that the value of the collateral securing the payment of their loans, if any, may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Our loan portfolio includes: (i) commercial and residential mortgage loans principally secured by real estate; (ii) other commercial loans; and (iii) consumer and home equity loans. Our credit risk with respect to our consumer and commercial loan portfolios relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses within our local market area and the value of the collateral held as security for the repayment of the loan. Our credit risk with respect to our residential and commercial real estate mortgage portfolio relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses and the value of real estate serving as security for the repayment of the loans. Loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results and could cause our insolvency, which may negatively impact the value of our common stock. A decline in the value of the collateral securing our loans could result in an increase in losses on foreclosure, which could adversely affect our financial condition and negatively impact the value of our common stock. Declining real estate values increase the loan-to-value ratios of loans we previously made, which, in turn, increases the probability of a loss in the event the borrower defaults and we have to sell the mortgaged property. In addition, delinquencies, foreclosures on loans and losses from delinquent and foreclosed loans generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. As a result, the market value of the real estate or other collateral underlying our loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans, which could adversely affect our financial condition and negatively impact the value of our common stock. In addition, any significant decline in real estate values reduces the ability of borrowers to use home equity as collateral for borrowings. This reduction in real estate values may reduce the number of loans we are able to make, which could also adversely affect our operating r esults and negatively impact the value of our common stock. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and may negatively impact the value of our common stock. From time to time, we have to recognize losses resulting from the inability of certain borrowers to repay loans and the insufficient realizable value of the collateral securing loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. In determining the size of the allowance, our management evaluates our past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower’s ability to repay (including the timing of future payments), the estimated value of any underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimates of material factors, including, but not limited to, the amounts and timing of f uture cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans, that may be susceptible to significant change. If our assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Federal and state regulators also periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results, which may negatively impact the value of our common stock. 15 Our level of growth in recent years may not continue if our growth strategy is not successful. In recent years, we have experienced significant growth through acquisitions and internal generation of new business. We intend to continue to expand our business through internal growth by opening new branches, adding to our loan portfolio and bringing in new deposits as well as through the acquisition of the assets and assumption of deposits of other banks as opportunities are identified. However, our ability to sustain continued growth depends upon several factors outside of our control, including economic conditions generally and in Florida in particular, as well as interest rate trends. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits at acceptable risk and asset quality levels and upon acceptable terms, while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with this growth strategy. There can be no assurance that any further expansion will be profitable or that we will continue to be able to sustain our historical rate of growth, either through internal growth or through acquisitions. Acquisitions that we may engage in involve risks, which could negatively affect our operations and reduce the value of our common stock. As part of our growth strategy, we completed, and may engage in the future in, bank or other acquisitions. Generally, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: · difficulties in assimilating operations of the acquired institution and implementing uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · exposure to asset quality problems of the acquired institution; · maintaining adequate regulatory capital; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · risks and expenses of entering new geographic markets; · potential significant loss of depositors or loan customers from the acquired institution; · loss of key employees of the acquired institution; and · exposure to undisclosed or unknown liabilities of an acquired institution. Any of these acquisition risks could result in unexpected losses or expenses and thereby reduce the expected benefits of the acquisition. Moreover, our failure to successfully integrate future acquisitions and manage our growth could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. We may be unable to successfully integrate Beach Bank’s operations and the operations of Independent Community Bank and achieve the projected cash savings and other benefits anticipated. The acquisition transaction and the proposed merger transaction with Independent Community Bank involve the integration of Beach Bank and Independent Community Bank. The difficulties of integrating the operations of Beach Bank and Independent Community Bank with Sun American Bank, at essentially the same time include, but are not limited to: · integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds; · combining different corporate cultures; and · retaining key employees. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of us, our subsidiary bank, Beach Bank and Independent Community Bank, the loss of key personnel, disruption of each bank’s business or inconsistencies in standard, controls and policies that could adversely affect our operations or our ability to achieve some of the cost savings or other benefits of these transactions. The integration of Beach Bank and Independent Community Bank with Sun American Bank will require the experience and expertise of certain key employees of Sun American Bank and such other banks who are expected to be retained by us. We cannot be sure, however, that we will be successful in retaining these employees for the time period necessary to successfully integrate Beach Bank and Independent Community Bank operations. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties enc ountered in connection with the 16 acquisitions, along with the integration of Beach Bank and Independent Community Bank, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operation. We have experienced operating losses in the past, and continued losses may negatively impact our financial position and the value of our common stock. We incurred net losses of $228,035 and $442,655 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Although for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, we had net income of $3.2 million and $2.9 million, respectively, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be profitable in the future. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, our loss reflected the discontinuance of a loan product known as “Business Manager” for which we wrote off approximately $582,000, as well as integration costs associated with the purchase of Gulf Bank of approximately $222,000. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, our loss reflected loan write-offs of approximately $1.1 million. If we experience losses, our financial position could be negatively impacted and the value of our common stock may decline. The geographic concentration of our operations in Florida makes our business highly susceptible to local economic conditions, and an economic downturn or recession or adverse weather conditions in Florida may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably, which could reduce the value of our common stock. Unlike larger banking organizations that are more geographically diversified, our operations are currently concentrated in Miami-Dade, Broward and Palm Beach Counties in Florida. As a result of this geographic concentration in the Florida market, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in this market area. A deterioration or recession in economic conditions in this market could result in one or more of the following: · an increase in loan delinquencies; · an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; · a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and · a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, and reduction in the customers’ borrowing power. In addition, because a large portion of our loan portfolio is secured by properties located in Florida, the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, could result in a decline in deposits and loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of mortgaged properties and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loss on loans originated by us in that state. Environmental laws and regulations and other environmental considerations may restrict our ability to foreclose on loans secured by real estate or increase costs associated with those loans, which could adversely affect our financial condition and negatively impact the value of our common stock. If we foreclosed upon a property that had environmental liabilities, we could face significant liability. Our ability to foreclose on the real estate collateralizing our loans may be limited by environmental laws that pertain primarily to commercial properties that require a current or previous owner or operator of real property to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases on the property. In addition, the owner or operator may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and cleanup costs relating to the contaminated property. While we would not knowingly make a loan collateralized by real property that was contaminated, we may not discover the environmental contamination until after we made the loan or after we foreclosed on a loan. If we foreclosed upon a property that had environmental liabilities, we could face significant liability. In addition to federal or state laws, owners or former owners of a contaminated site may be subject to common law claims, including tort claims, by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination migrating from the property. Other environmental considerations, such as pervasive mold infestation of real estate securing our loans, may also restrict our ability to foreclose on delinquent loans. To the extent that we sustain losses due to the environmental issues that may arise in connection with our loans, such losses could adversely affect our financial condition and impact the value of our common stock. 17 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business and the value of our common stock. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2005, we began a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules and regulations, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In this regard, management has hired an external consultant, been dedicating internal resources and adopted a detailed work plan to: (i) assess and document the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting; (ii) take steps to improve control processes, where appropriate; (iii) verify through testing that controls are functioning as documented; and (iv) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. On a number of occasions, we did not timely furnish a Current Report on Form 8-K to report events required to be reported on such form. We note that failures to timely furnish these forms were due to human performance error, not a process deficiency. If we fail to correct any issues in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of our common stock. Government regulation may have an adverse effect on our profitability and growth, which may decrease the value of our common stock. We are subject to extensive federal and state government supervision and regulation. Our ability to continue to grow profitably could be adversely affected by federal and state banking laws and regulations that limit the manner in which we accept deposits, make loans, purchase securities, pay dividends and engage in banking and other businesses. These laws and regulations are subject to change and such changes may adversely impact our business and profitability due to the costs related to compliance with these requirements or changes that may be required to our operations. These laws and regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors, not stockholders. In 2005, we entered into agreements with federal and state regulators to remain well capitalized and improve our policies and procedures in administrative areas affecting internal audit, asset and liability management and compliance and agreed to periodically report to the regulatory authorities on our progress in these areas. These agreements ended in 2006. In addition, the burden imposed by federal and state laws and regulations may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to financial institutions that are less regulated and may have an adverse affect on our profitability, which may decrease the value of our common stock. Future legislation or government policy may also adversely affect our operations. Competition from other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability and growth, which may reduce the value of our common stock. As a small commercial bank we face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors, including many large financial institutions. Competition for deposits, loans, and other financial services comes from numerous Florida-based and out-of-state banks, savings banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities that provide financial services, many of which are much larger than Sun American Bank. Most of these competitors, some of which are affiliated with bank holding companies, have substantially greater resources and lending limits, and may offer certain services, such as trust, investment and full service international banking, that Sun American Bank does not currently provide. In addition, many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive federal regulations that govern bank holding companies and federally insured banks. Competition from various financial institutions could hinder our growth strategy and ability to attain profitable operations, which may reduce the value of our common stock. From time to time we are subject to litigation, the impact of which on our financial position is uncertain. The inherent uncertainty related to litigation makes it difficult to predict the ultimate outcome or potential liability that we may incur as a result of these matters. We and Sun American Bank are periodically parties to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business, such as claims to enforce liens, claims involving the making and servicing of real property loans, and other issues incident to our business. Management does not believe that there is any pending 18 proceeding against us or Sun American Bank, which, if determined adversely, would have a material effect on our business or financial position. On June 2, 2006, we, Michael Golden, and Franklin Financial Group, LLC were named as defendants in a civil suit filed by Sam Caliendo and G. Carlton Marlowe, both former members of our board of directors, Case No. 502006CA005467XXXXMB, Palm Beach County Circuit Court. The plaintiffs allege that they did not receive compensation, including options and warrants that were promised to them while they were board members. Mr. Caliendo further alleges that he was not paid for services provided to Mr. Golden, individually, and to Franklin Financial Group, LLC. No specific damage amount was alleged in the complaint. We and Mr. Golden have moved to dismiss the complaint and deny the allegations. We believe that we have several defenses to the claims raised by this lawsuit and intend to vigorously defend the lawsuit. Due to the inherent uncertainties in litigation and because the ultimate resolution of this proceeding is influenced by factors outside of our control, we are currently unable to predict the ultimate outcome of this litigation or its impact on our financial condition or results of operations. However, to the extent that our management will be required to participate in or otherwise devote substantial amounts of time to the defense of this lawsuit, such activities would result in the diversion of our management resources from our business operations and the implementation of our growth strategy, which may negatively impact our results of operations. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities There is not presently an active market for shares of our common stock and, therefore, you may be unable to sell any shares of common stock in the event that you need a source of liquidity. Although our common stock is listed on the American Stock Exchange, the trading in our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the trading in the securities of many other companies listed on that market. A public trading market in our common stock having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. In the event an active market for our common stock does not develop, you may be unable to resell your shares of common stock at or above the merger consideration price per share or at any price. Issuance of shares of our common stock upon the exercise or conversion of derivative securities may cause significant dilution of equity interests of existing holders of common stock, reduce the proportionate voting power of existing holders of common stock and reduce the value of our common stock. As of March 8, 2007, 23,236,043 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding. We have reserved approximately an additional 13,254,548 shares of common stock for issuance in connection with previously issued securities that are exercisable or convertible into common stock, which represents 57% of our outstanding common stock. We also have reserved 5,915,233 shares of common stock in connection with our benefit plans and 200,000 shares of common stock in connection with our warrant plan. Should existing holders of warrants or other securities exercisable or convertible into shares of our common stock exercise or convert such derivative securities into shares of our common stock, it may cause significant dilution of equity interests of existing holders of common stock, reduce the proportionate voting power of existing holders of common stock and reduce the value of our common stock and outstanding warrants. Due to the issuance of up to 4.2 million shares of our common stock and conversion of options to purchase 22,046 shares of Independent Community Bank common stock, into 142,115 options to purchase shares of our common stock at the effective time of the proposed merger of Independent Community Bank with and into Sun American Bank, the outstanding shares of our common stock would be subject to further dilution. As of March 8, 2007, we had approximately 7,394,176 shares of our common stock available for future issuances, which issuances would cause further dilution. A substantial number of our outstanding shares of common stock or shares issuable upon the exercise of options and warrants are eligible for future sale and the sale of our shares of common stock into the market may depress our stock price. Our stock price may be depressed by future sales of our shares of common stock or the perception that future sales may occur. As of March 8, 2007, 23,236,043 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding, of which 14,593,571 shares have previously been registered with the SEC. As of March 8, 2007, 15,563,706 shares issuable upon the exercise of options or warrants have been registered for resale with the SEC, including 5,826,660 19 shares underlying options issued under our Amended and Restated Directors Stock Option Plan, our Amended and Restated Incentive Stock Option Plan and our Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Option and Stock Incentive Plan, 4,862,100 shares underlying Series D common stock purchase warrants, 4,084,358 shares underlying Series F common stock purchase warrants, 50,000 shares underlying Series G common stock purchase warrants and 740,588 shares underlying common stock purchase warrants issued to placement agents in connection with certain private placements that occurred between August 2005 and February 2006. We are unable to estimate the amount, timing or nature of future sales of common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, may lower the common stock’s market price. Due to the issuance of up to 4.2 million shares of our common stock and conversion of options to purchase 22,046 shares of Independent Community Bank common stock, into 142,115 options to purchase shares of our common stock at the effective time of the proposed merger of Independent Community Bank with and into Sun American Bank, an increased number of shares of our common stock will be eligible for future sale, which also may depress our stock price. We may issue shares of preferred stock that could be entitled to dividends, liquidation preferences and other special rights and preferences not shared by holders of our common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. We may issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series as our board of directors may from time to time determine without stockholder approval. The voting powers, preferences and other special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of each such series of preferred stock may differ from each other. The issuance of any such series of preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and could reduce the value of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions and the regulations to which we may be subject may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws, including the right to issue “blank check” preferred stock, as well as approvals required under banking laws and regulations, could hinder or delay a change in control of our company, including transactions in which holders of common stock might otherwise receive a premium over the market price of their shares at the time of the transaction. We do not pay cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. We are subject to legal limitations under federal and state laws affecting the frequency and amount of dividends that may be paid to our stockholders. Banking regulators may restrict the ability of any bank holding company subject to their jurisdiction to pay dividends if the payments would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. As a Delaware corporation, we may not declare and pay dividends on our capital stock if the amount paid exceeds an amount equal to the surplus, which represents the excess of our net assets over paid-in-capital or, if there is no surplus, our net profits for the current and/or immediately preceding fiscal year. Under applicable Delaware case law, dividends may not be paid on our common stock if we become insolvent or the payment of dividends will render us insolvent. We do not pay, and we do not anticipate paying, any cash dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable future. 20 