Risk Factors—Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies could negatively affect our operating results and cash flows.” Financial Information about Segments The Company has one segment. For a description of our revenues, profit and loss, and total assets, we incorporate by reference the information in Item 6 and Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Backlog For a discussion of backlog, we incorporate by reference the information in Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the heading Financial Trends. Available Information We were incorporated in California in March 1991 and were reincorporated in Delaware in October 1997. We maintain a site on the worldwide web at www.chordiant.com; however, information found on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge on or through our website our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Further, a copy of this annual report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may experience a shortfall in bookings, revenue, earnings, cash flow or other financial metrics, or otherwise fail to meet public market expectations, which could materially and adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of these factors may include: • Additional deterioration and changes in domestic and foreign markets and economies, including those impacted by the turmoil in the financial services, mortgage and credit markets; • Our ability to close new license transactions; • Size and timing of individual license transactions; • Delay, deferral or termination of customer implementations of our products; • Lengthening of our sales cycle; • Efficiently utilizing our global services organization, direct sales force and indirect distribution channels; • Our ability to develop and market new products; • Timing of new product introductions and product enhancements; • Mix of products licensed and services sold; • Activities of and acquisitions by our competitors; • Product and price competition; and • Our ability to control our costs. One or more of the foregoing factors may cause our operating expenses to be disproportionately high during any given period or may cause our bookings, revenues and operating results to fluctuate significantly. Based upon the preceding factors, we may experience a shortfall in bookings, revenues and earnings or otherwise fail to meet public market expectations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. Our backlog has declined over the past two years, which will adversely affect revenues and could result in losses in future periods, and our known backlog of business may not result in revenue. We define backlog as contractual commitments by our customers through purchase orders or contracts. Backlog includes software license orders for which the delivered products have not been accepted by customers or have not otherwise met all of the required criteria for revenue recognition, deferred revenue from customer support contracts, and deferred consulting and education orders for services not yet completed or delivered. Prior to the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009 when backlog increased, backlog had declined sequentially over each of the prior six fiscal quarters due to lower than expected bookings. In the aggregate, backlog declined significantly over the past fiscal year. The decline in backlog is primarily due to revenue on previously signed transactions being recognized at a faster pace than new transactions were being consummated. Each category of backlog has also been unfavorably impacted by recent foreign exchange rate changes, as significant portions of the underlying balances are denominated in Euros or Pounds Sterling. The decline in backlog and the associated deferred revenue balances will adversely affect revenues in future periods, and our ability to forecast future revenues will be diminished. Because our backlog has declined, the financial results of future periods will be more dependent upon the signing of new transactions. Accordingly, the level of future revenues will be less predictable. If average quarterly aggregate bookings remain at the $13.7 million levels achieved during the past twelve months, future losses would be incurred unless operating expenses are reduced. 13 Table of Contents Backlog is not necessarily indicative of revenues to be recognized in a specified future period. There are many factors that would impact the Company’s filling of backlog, such as the Company’s progress in completing projects for its customers and Chordiant’s customers’ meeting anticipated schedules for customer-dependent deliverables. The Company provides no assurances that any portion of its backlog will be filled during any fiscal year or at all, or that its backlog will be recognized as revenues in any given period or at all. In addition, it is possible that customers from whom we expect to derive revenue from backlog will default, and as a result we may not be able to recognize expected revenue from backlog. The risk that customers will reduce the scope of, delay or terminate projects, thus delaying or eliminating our ability to recognize backlog as revenue, is exacerbated in the current economic environment. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, statements of work for professional services aggregating approximately $5.8 million were reversed from our backlog balances as the underlying projects were canceled or the statement of work contractually expired unutilized. Geopolitical concerns could make the closing of license transactions with new and existing customers difficult. Our revenues may further decrease in fiscal year 2010 or beyond if we are unable to enter into new large value license transactions with new and existing customers. The current state of the global financial markets and the global economic decline generally have left many customers reluctant to enter into new large value license transactions without some expectation that the economy both in the customer’s home country and globally will stabilize. Geopolitical instability will continue to make closing large license transactions difficult. In addition, we cannot predict what effect the U.S. military presence overseas or potential or actual political or military conflict have had or are continuing to have on our existing and prospective customers’ decision-making process with respect to licensing or implementing enterprise-level products such as ours. Our ability to enter into new large value license transactions also directly affects our ability to create additional consulting service and maintenance revenue opportunities, on which we also depend. Recent worldwide market turmoil may adversely affect our customers which directly impacts our business and results of operations. The Company’s operations and performance depend on our customers having adequate resources to purchase our products and services. The unprecedented turmoil in the global markets and the global economic downturn generally continues to adversely impact our customers and potential customers. These market and economic conditions have continued to deteriorate despite government intervention globally, and may remain volatile and uncertain for the foreseeable future. Customers have altered and may continue to alter their purchasing and payment activities in response to deterioration in their businesses, lack of credit, economic uncertainty and concern about the stability of markets in general, and these customers may reduce, delay or terminate purchases of, and payment for, our products and services. Recently, a number of our current and prospective customers have merged with others, been forced to raise significant amounts of capital, or received loans or equity investments from the government, which actions may result in less demand for our products and services. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in demand resulting from deteriorating market and economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. In periods of worsening economic conditions, our exposure to credit risk and payment delinquencies on our accounts receivable significantly increases. Our outstanding accounts receivables are generally not secured by any form of collateral. In addition, our standard terms and conditions permit payment within a specified number of days following the receipt of our product. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses. As economic conditions deteriorate, certain of our customers have faced and may face liquidity concerns and have delayed and may delay or may be unable to satisfy their payment obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our cash and cash equivalents could be adversely affected if the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and cash equivalents fail. Our cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. We maintain the cash and cash equivalents with reputable major financial institutions. Deposits with these banks exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. While we frequently monitor the cash balances in the operating accounts and adjust the balances as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if one or more of the financial institutions with which we deposit fails or is subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets. To date we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents; however, we can provide no assurance that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets. 14 Table of Contents To date, our sales have been concentrated in the insurance, healthcare, telecommunications and financial services markets, and if we are unable to continue sales in these markets or successfully penetrate new markets, our revenues may decline. Sales of our products and services in several large markets—insurance, healthcare, telecommunications and financial services, accounted for approximately 86% and 92% of our total revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect that revenues from these markets will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. However, we are seeking to opportunistically expand in other markets. If we are unable to successfully increase penetration of our existing markets or achieve sales in additional markets, or if the overall economic conditions in our target markets further deteriorates, our revenues may decline. Some of our current and prospective customers, especially those in the financial services and insurance industries, have faced and may continue to face severe financial difficulties given their exposure to deteriorating financial and credit markets, as well as the mortgage and homebuilder sectors of the economy. This may cause our current and prospective customers to reduce, delay or terminate their spending on technology, which in turn would have an adverse impact on our bookings and revenues. Because a small number of customers account for a substantial portion of our revenues, the loss of a significant customer could cause a substantial decline in our revenues. We derive a significant portion of our license and service revenue from a limited number of customers. The loss of a major customer could cause a decrease in revenues and net income. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, Vodafone Group Services Limited and affiliated companies and Citicorp Credit Services, Inc. accounted for 20% and 10% of our total revenue, respectively. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, Citicorp Credit Services, Inc. and Vodafone Group Services Limited and affiliated companies accounted for 22% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenue. While our customer concentration has fluctuated, we expect that a limited number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues in any given period. As a result, if we lose a major customer, or if a contract is delayed or cancelled or we do not contract with new major customers, our revenues and net income would be adversely affected. In addition, customers that have accounted for significant revenues in the past may not generate revenues in any future period, which may materially affect our operating results. For example, Vodafone Group Services Limited and affiliated companies, which had purchase commitments through the quarter ended June 30, 2009, may not purchase additional products or services with us. The deteriorating economic environment has resulted in failures of financial institutions and significant consolidation within the financial services industry from which we derive a significant portion of our customers and revenues. Accordingly, the risk that we could lose a significant customer is exacerbated in the current economic environment. Historically, some of our products and services have assisted companies in attracting and retaining customers. To the extent financial institutions and other large companies shrink the size of their customer base, the demand for these products may be reduced. Some of our customers have used our products to aggressively expand the size of their customer base. Our marketing, decisioning and enterprise solutions have been used to varying degrees on projects intended to manage leads, personalize marketing campaigns and deliver highly effective sales messages. Due to the current economic climate, many large financial institutions have been forced to deleverage, sell parts of their businesses, or otherwise reduce the size of their organizations. In these situations it is possible that the demand for our products has been, and may continue to be, reduced, resulting in lower revenues in the future. Over the near term, we have shifted the focus of our sales staff towards Decisioning Management products and have reduced the marketing focus on Enterprise Foundation products to reflect market conditions. This change in focus may not be successful and may result in lower revenues. Sales of Enterprise Foundation solutions generally have a much higher cost to a customer than Decisioning Management solutions. The magnitude of the professional services required to implement Enterprise Foundation projects is also much higher and often can take long periods of time to complete. Decisioning products are generally faster to implement and can produce a positive return on investment in a shorter period of time. Due to the current economic climate, our customers are focusing on those projects that are smaller and faster to complete. Accordingly, we have shifted our sales force to increase the marketing of these types of solutions. This plan may not be successful and, as a result, revenues may not meet our expectations. Further, license and services fees associated with our Decisioning Management solutions generate smaller sales and, as a result, may result in lower revenues. 15 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. A significant portion of our sales and operating expenses result from transactions outside of the U.S., often denominated in foreign currencies. These currencies include the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar, and the Chinese Yuan. Our international sales comprised 65 % and 48% of our total sales for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our future operating results, as well as our cash and deferred revenue balances, will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates, especially if international sales increase as a percentage of our total sales, and we may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, we had a foreign currency transaction loss of less than $0.1 million. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, for further discussions. Given current economic and market conditions, we may be forced to make additional reductions to our workforce. In July 2005, October 2006, May 2008 and October 2008, we reduced our workforce by approximately 10% to 15% in each instance. Given the current economic and market conditions, we may be forced to further reduce our workforce, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Given that our stock price is near its historical low, we may be subject to takeover overtures that will divert the attention of our management and Board, and require us to incur expenses for outside advisors. Given that our stock price is near its historical low, we may be subject to takeover overtures. Evaluating and addressing these overtures would require the time and attention of our management and Board, divert them from their focus on our business, and require us to incur additional expenses on outside legal, financial and other advisors, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Low gross margin in services revenues could adversely impact our overall gross margin and income. Our services revenues have had lower gross margins than our license revenues. Service revenues comprised 71% and 70% of our total revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Gross margin on service revenues was 60% and 57% for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. License revenues comprised 29% and 30% of our total revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Gross margins on license revenues were 98% and 97% for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As a result, an increase in the percentage of total revenues represented by services revenues, or an unexpected decrease in license revenues, could have a detrimental impact on our overall gross margins. To increase services revenues, we may expand our services organization, requiring us to successfully recruit and train a sufficient number of qualified services personnel, enter into new implementation projects and obtain renewals of current maintenance contracts by our customers. This expansion could further reduce gross margins in our services revenues. In addition, given the current economic environment, customers and potential customers have sought and may seek discounts on our services, or services at no charge, which has and would further reduce our services gross margins and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues decreased in fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008, in fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007, and in fiscal year 2009 we were not profitable, which may raise vendor viability concerns about us and thereby make it more difficult to consummate license transactions with new and existing customers. Our revenues decreased materially in fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008 and in fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007. In addition, we were not profitable in fiscal year 2009 or the fiscal years prior to September 30, 2007. As of September 30, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $236.6 million. We may incur losses in the future and cannot be certain that we can generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability. Continued losses or decreased revenues may make many customers reluctant to enter into new large value license transactions without some assurance that we will operate profitably. If we fail to enter into new large value license transactions due to profitability and/or viability concerns by our vendors, our revenues could decline, which could further adversely affect our operating results. 16 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan and initially declared a dividend distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock to stockholders of record as of July 21, 2008. Each right entitles the holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of our Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for $20. Under certain circumstances, if a person or group acquires 20 percent or more of our outstanding common stock, holders of the rights (other than the person or group triggering their exercise) will be able to purchase, in exchange for the $20 exercise price, shares of our common stock or of any company into which we are merged, having a value of $40. The rights expire on July 21, 2011, unless extended by our Board of Directors. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors, our rights plan could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us (or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock) without first negotiating with our Board of Directors regarding that acquisition. In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 51 million shares of Preferred Stock (of which 500,000 shares have been designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock) and to fix the designations and the powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof. The rights of the holders of our common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any Preferred Stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of Preferred Stock may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control of Chordiant without further action by the stockholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. Further, certain provisions of our charter documents, including a provision limiting the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management of Chordiant, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. In addition, our charter documents do not permit cumulative voting, which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. Similarly, we have a classified Board of Directors whereby approximately one-third of our Board members are elected annually to serve for three-year terms, which may also make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. Further, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prohibit us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, even if such combination is favored by a majority of stockholders, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The application of Section 203 also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or management. Our primary products have a long sales and implementation cycle, which makes it difficult to predict our quarterly and annual results and may cause our operating results to vary significantly from period to period. The period between the initial contact with a prospective customer and the sale of our products is unpredictable and often lengthy, typically ranging from three to eighteen months. Thus, revenue and cash receipts could vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Any delays in the implementation of our products could cause reductions in our revenues. The licensing of our products is often an enterprise-wide decision that generally requires us to provide a significant level of education to prospective customers about the use and benefits of our products. The implementation of our products involves a significant commitment of technical and financial resources that may be provided by us, by the customer or by third-party systems integrators. If we underestimate the resources required to meet the expectations we have set with a customer when we set prices, then we may experience a net loss on that customer engagement. If this happens with a large customer engagement, then this could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Customers generally consider a wide range of issues before committing to purchase our products, including product benefits, ability to operate with existing and future computer systems, vendor financial stability and longevity, ability to accommodate increased transaction volume and product reliability. Certain of our customers have become more cautious regarding their technology purchases given the current economic conditions and specifically the issues that continue to impact the financial and credit markets. The result is that our sales cycles may have lengthened in some instances, requiring more time to finalize transactions. In particular, in each of the past several quarters, transactions that we expected to close before the end of the quarter were delayed or suspended. Competition in our markets is intense and could reduce our sales and prevent us from achieving profitability. Increased competition in our markets could result in price reductions for our products and services, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any one of which could reduce our future revenues. The market for our products is intensely competitive, evolving and subject to rapid technological change. Historically, our primary competition has been from internal development, custom systems integration projects and application software competitors, each of whom we expect will continue to be a significant source of competition. In particular, we compete with: 17 Table of Contents • Internal information technology departments: in-house information technology departments of potential customers have developed or may develop systems that provide some or all of the functionality of our products. • Custom systems integration projects: we compete with large systems integrators who may develop custom solutions for specific companies which may reduce the likelihood that they would purchase our products and services. • Application software vendors: we compete with providers of stand-alone point solutions for web-based customer relationship management as well as traditional client/server-based, call-center service customer and sales-force automation solution providers, many of whom offer broad suites of application and other software. The enterprise software industry continues to undergo consolidation in sectors of the software industry in which we operate. IBM, SAP, Oracle and Sun Microsystems have made numerous acquisitions in the industry and Oracle has entered into an agreement to acquire Sun Microsystems, which transaction is subject to certain regulatory approvals. While we do not believe that the companies acquired by IBM, SAP and Oracle have been significant competitors of Chordiant in the past, these acquisitions may indicate that we may face increased competition from larger and more established entities in the future. Many of our competitors have greater resources, broader customer relationships and broader product and service offerings than we do. In addition, many of these competitors have extensive knowledge of our industry. Current and potential competitors have established, or may further establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to offer a single solution and to increase the ability of their products to address customer needs. Our operating results and cash flows fluctuate significantly and delays in delivery or implementation of our products or changes in the payment terms with customers may cause unanticipated declines in revenues or cash flow, which could disappoint investors and result in a decline in our stock price. A portion of our quarterly revenues depend primarily upon product implementation by our customers. We have historically recognized a significant portion of our license and services revenue through the percentage-of-completion accounting method, using labor hours incurred as the measure of progress towards completion of implementation of our products, and we expect this practice to continue. The percentage-of-completion accounting method requires ongoing estimates of progress of complicated and frequently changing technology projects. Documenting the measure of progress towards completion of implementation is subject to potential errors and changes in estimates. As a result, even minor errors or minor changes in estimates may lead to significant changes in accounting results which may be revised in later quarters due to subsequent information and events. Thus, delays or changes in customer business goals or direction when implementing our software may adversely impact our quarterly revenue. Additionally, we may increasingly enter into term, subscription or transaction-based licensing transactions that would cause us to recognize license revenue for such transactions over a longer period of time than we have historically experienced for our perpetual licenses. In addition, a significant portion of new customer orders have been booked in the third month of each calendar quarter, with many of these bookings occurring in the last two weeks of the third month. We expect this trend to continue, and therefore any failure or delay in bookings would decrease our quarterly revenue and cash flows. The terms and conditions of individual license agreements with customers vary from transaction to transaction. Historically, the Company has been able to obtain prepayments for product in some cases, but more recently we have entered into large transactions with payments from customers due over one or more years. Other transactions link payment to the delivery or acceptance of products. If we are unable to negotiate prepayments of fees our cash flows and financial ratios with respect to accounts receivable would be adversely impacted. If our revenues, operating margins or cash flows are below the expectations of the investment community, our stock price is likely to decline. If we are not able to successfully manage our partner operations in India, our operations and financial results may be adversely affected. Since 2003, we have contracted with Ness Technologies Inc., Ness USA, Inc. (formerly Ness Global Services, Inc.) and Ness Technologies India, Ltd. (collectively, “Ness”) to attract, train, assimilate and retain sufficient highly qualified personnel to provide staffing for our consulting projects, technical support, product testing and certain sustaining engineering functions. As of September 30, 2009, we use the services of approximately 127 consultants through Ness. In addition, as a result of the reductions in our workforce in recent years, we continue to have a significant dependence on Ness. This agreement is an important component of our strategy to address the business needs of our customers and manage our expenses. The success of this operation will depend on our ability and Ness’s ability to attract, train, assimilate and retain highly qualified personnel in the required periods. A disruption or termination of our relationship with Ness could adversely affect our operations. Failure to effectively manage the organization and operations will harm our business and financial results. 18 Table of Contents If we become subject to intellectual property infringement claims, including copyright or patent infringement claims, these claims could be costly and time-consuming to defend, divert management’s attention, cause product delays and have an adverse effect on our revenues and net income. We expect that software product developers and providers of software in markets similar to our target markets will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of products overlap. Additionally, we are seeing copyright infringement claims being asserted by certain third party software developers. Any claims, with or without merit, could be costly and time-consuming to defend, divert our management’s attention or cause product delays. If any of our products were found to infringe a third party’s proprietary rights, we could be required to pay damages and/or enter into royalty or licensing agreements to be able to sell our products, if at all. Royalty and licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. A patent or copyright infringement claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are the subject of a suit by a person and related entity claiming that certain of our products infringe their copyrights. Such litigation is costly. If any of our products were found to infringe such copyrights, we could be required to pay damages. If we were to settle such claim, it could be costly. If we fail to adequately address the difficulties of managing our international operations, our revenues and operating expenses will be adversely affected. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, international revenues were $50.5 million or approximately 65% of our total revenues. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, international revenues were $54.2 million or approximately 48% of our total revenues. We expect that international revenues will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues in future periods. We have faced, and will continue to face, difficulties in managing international operations, which include: • Difficulties in hiring qualified local personnel; • Seasonal fluctuations in customer orders; • Longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • Expenses associated with licensing products and servicing customers in foreign markets; • Economic downturns and political uncertainty in international economies; • Income tax withholding issues in countries in which we do not have a physical presence, resulting in non-recoverable tax payments; • Complex transfer pricing arrangements between legal entities; • Doing business and licensing our software to customers in countries with weaker intellectual property protection laws and enforcement capabilities; and • Difficulties in commencing new operations in countries where the Company has not previously conducted business, including those associated with tax laws, banking relationships, product registrations, employment laws, government regulation, product warranty laws and adopting to local customs and culture; Any of these factors could have a significant impact on our ability to license products and provide services on a competitive and timely basis and could adversely affect our operating expenses and net income. Because competition for qualified personnel is intense, we may not be able to retain or recruit personnel, which could impact the development and sales of our products. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified personnel, or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or fail to reach expected levels of productivity, our ability to develop and market our products will be weakened. Our success depends largely on the continued contributions of our key management, finance, engineering, sales, marketing and professional services personnel. In particular, in prior years we have had significant turnover of our executives as well as in our sales, marketing and engineering organizations, and several key positions are held by people who have less than two 19 Table of Contents years of experience in their roles with the Company. If these people are not well suited to their new roles, then this could result in the Company having problems in executing its strategy or in developing and marketing new products. Because of the dependency on a small number of large deals, we are uniquely dependent upon the talents and relationships of a few executives and have no guarantee of their retention. Changes in key sales management could affect our ability to maintain existing customer relationships or to close pending transactions. Further, particularly in the current economic environment, employees or potential employees may choose to work for larger, more profitable companies. The application of percentage-of-completion and completed contract accounting to our business is complex and may result in delays in the reporting of our financial results and revenue not being recognized as we expect. Although we attempt to use standardized license agreements designed to meet current revenue recognition criteria under generally accepted accounting principles, we must often negotiate and revise terms and conditions of these standardized agreements, particularly in multi-product transactions. At the time of entering into a transaction, we assess whether any services included within the arrangement require us to perform significant implementation or customization essential to the functionality of our products. For contracts involving significant implementation or customization essential to the functionality of our products, we recognize the license and professional consulting services revenues using the percentage-of-completion accounting method using labor hours incurred as the measure of progress towards completion. The application of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting is complex and involves judgments and estimates, which may change significantly based on customer requirements. This complexity combined with changing customer requirements could result in delays in the proper determination of our percentage-of-completion estimates and revenue not being recognized as we expect. In the past we have also entered into co-development projects with our customers to jointly develop new applications, often over the course of a year or longer. In such cases we may only be able to recognize revenue upon delivery of the new application. The accounting treatment for these co-development projects could result in delays in the recognition of revenue. If we were to enter into similar transactions, the failure to successfully complete these projects to the satisfaction of the customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The company's common stock price has historically been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for stockholders. The market price of shares of the Company’s common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile and may be significantly affected by factors such as the following: • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • Changes in economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad; • Terrorist attacks, war or the threat of terrorist attacks or war; • The announcement of mergers or acquisitions by the Company or its competitors; • Financial difficulties or poor operating results announced by significant customers; • Developments in ongoing or threatened litigation; • Announcements of technological innovations; • Failure to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; • New products or new contracts announced by the Company or its competitors; • Developments with respect to intellectual property laws; • Price and volume fluctuations in the stock market; • Changes in corporate purchasing of software by companies in the industry verticals supported by the Company; • Adoption of new accounting standards affecting the software industry; and • Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts. 20 Table of Contents In addition, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against such companies. If the Company is involved in such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and could materially harm the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to maintain and expand our relationships with systems integrators and other business partners, our ability to develop, market, sell and support our products may be adversely affected. Our development, marketing and distribution strategies rely on our ability to form and maintain long-term strategic relationships with systems integrators, in particular, with our existing business alliance partners IBM, Ness, Electronic Data Systems, Tata Consultancy Services and HCL Technologies. These business relationships often consist of joint marketing programs, technology partnerships and resale and distribution arrangements. Although most aspects of these relationships are contractual in nature, many important aspects of these relationships depend on the continued cooperation between the parties. Divergence in strategy, change in focus, competitive product offerings or potential contract defaults may interfere with our ability to develop, market, sell or support our products, which in turn could harm our business. If any of IBM, Ness, Electronic Data Systems, Tata Consultancy Services or HCL Technologies were to terminate their agreements with us or our relationship were to deteriorate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In many cases, these parties have extensive relationships with our existing and potential customers and influence the decisions of these customers. A number of our competitors have stronger relationships with IBM, Ness, Electronic Data Systems, Tata Consultancy Services and HCL Technologies and, as a result, these systems integrators may be more likely to recommend competitors’ products and services. Over the past several years, IBM has acquired a number of software companies. While we do not believe those companies were direct competitors of Chordiant in the past, IBM’s acquisition of these companies may indicate that IBM will become a more significant competitor of ours in the future. While the Company currently has a good relationship with IBM, this relationship and the Company’s strategic relationship agreement with IBM may be harmed if the Company increasingly finds itself competing with IBM. Our relationships with systems integrators and their willingness to recommend our products to their customers could be harmed if the Company were to be subject to a takeover attempt from a competitor of such systems integrators. If systems integrators fail to properly implement our software, our business, reputation and financial results may be harmed. We often rely on systems integrators to implement our products. As a result, we have less quality control over the implementation of our software with respect to these transactions and are more reliant on the ability of our systems integrators to correctly implement our software. If these systems integrators fail to properly implement our software, our business, reputation and financial results may be harmed. If we do not maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting and customers may delay purchasing decisions, which would harm our business and the market price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business could be harmed. We are a complex company with complex accounting issues and thus subject to related risks of errors in financial reporting which may cause problems in corporate governance, the costs of which may outweigh the costs of the underlying errors themselves. If we are not successful in maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting, customers may delay purchasing decisions or we may lose customers, create investor uncertainty, face litigation and the market price of our common stock may decline. If our products do not operate effectively in a company-wide environment, we may lose sales and suffer decreased revenues. If existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or choose not to fully deploy our products, it could damage our reputation and reduce revenues. Our success requires that our products be highly scalable and able to accommodate substantial increases in the number of users. Our products are expected to be deployed on a variety of computer software and hardware platforms and to be used in connection with a number of third-party software applications by personnel who may not have previously used application software systems or our products. These deployments present very significant technical challenges, which are difficult or impossible to predict. If these deployments do not succeed, we 21 Table of Contents may lose future sales opportunities and suffer decreased revenues. If we underestimate the resources required to meet the expectations we have set with a customer when we set prices, then we may experience a net loss on that customer engagement. If this happens with a large customer engagement then this could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Defects in our products could diminish demand for our products and result in decreased revenues, decreased market acceptance and injury to our reputation. Errors may be found from time-to-time in our existing, new, acquired or enhanced products. Any significant software errors in our products may result in decreased revenues, decreased sales, and injury to our reputation and/or increased warranty and repair costs. Although we conduct extensive product testing during product development, we have in the past discovered and may in the future discover software errors in our products as well as in third-party products, and as a result have experienced and may in the future experience delays in the shipment of our new products. We may not have the workforce necessary to support our platform of products if demand for our products substantially increased, and, if we need to rebuild our workforce in the future, we may not be able to recruit personnel in a timely manner, which could negatively impact the development, sales and support of our products. In recent years, we have, from time to time, reduced our workforce. In the event that demand for our products increases, we may need to rebuild our workforce or increase outsourced functions to companies based in foreign jurisdictions and we may be unable to hire, train or retain qualified personnel in a timely manner, which may weaken our ability to market our products in a timely manner, negatively impacting our operations. Our success depends largely on ensuring that we have adequate personnel to support our suite of products as well as the continued contributions of our key management, finance, engineering, sales, marketing and professional services personnel. If we fail to introduce new versions and releases of functional and scalable products in a timely manner, customers may license competing products and our revenues may decline. If we are unable to ship or implement enhancements to our products when planned, or fail to achieve timely market acceptance of these enhancements, we may suffer lost sales and could fail to achieve anticipated revenues. If our competitors release new products that are superior to our products in performance or price, or if we fail to enhance our products or introduce new products, features and functionality in a timely manner, demand for our products may decline. We have in the past experienced delays in the planned release dates of new products or new versions of our software products and upgrades. New versions of our products may not be released on schedule or may contain defects when released. We depend on technology licensed to us by third parties, and the loss or inability to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay sales of our products. We license from several software providers technologies that are incorporated into our products. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology from third parties in the future. This software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. While currently we are not materially dependent on any single third party for such licenses, the loss of the technology licenses could result in delays in the license of our products until equivalent technology is developed or identified, licensed and integrated into our products. Given the current economic environment, the risk that one or more of our suppliers or vendors may go out of business or be unable to meet their contractual obligations to us is exacerbated. Even if substitute technologies are available, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to license these technologies on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Defects in third party products associated with our products could impair our products’ functionality and injure our reputation. The effective implementation of our products depends upon the successful operation of third-party products in conjunction with our products. Any undetected defects in these third-party products could prevent the implementation or impair the functionality of our products, delay new product introductions or injure our reputation. In the past, while our business has not been materially harmed, product releases have been delayed as a result of errors in third-party software and we have incurred significant expenses fixing and investigating the cause of these errors. Our customers and systems integration partners may have the ability to alter our source code and resulting inappropriate alterations could adversely affect the performance of our products, cause injury to our reputation and increase operating expenses. 22 Table of Contents Customers and systems integration partners may have access to the computer source code for certain elements of our products and may alter the source code. Alteration of our source code may lead to implementation, operation, technical support and upgrade problems for our customers. This could adversely affect the market acceptance of our products and our reputation, and any necessary investigative work and repairs could cause us to incur significant expenses and delays in implementation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If our products do not keep up with advancing technological requirements or operate with the hardware and software platforms used by our customers, our customers may license competing products and our revenues will decline. If our products fail to satisfy advancing technological requirements of our customers and potential customers, the market acceptance of these products could be reduced. We currently serve a customer base with a wide variety of constantly changing hardware, software applications and networking platforms. Customer acceptance of our products depends on many factors, including our ability to integrate our products with multiple platforms and existing or legacy systems, and our ability to anticipate and support new standards, especially Internet and enterprise Java standards. If our products do not keep up with advancing technological requirements or operate with the hardware and software platforms used by our customers, our customers may license competing products and our revenues will decline. Our failure to successfully acquire or integrate with future acquired or merged companies and technologies could prevent us from operating efficiently. Our business strategy includes pursuing opportunities to grow our business, both through internal growth and through mergers, acquisitions and technology and other asset transactions. To implement this strategy, we may be involved in various related discussions and activity. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including that we may not consummate opportunities that we pursue. These endeavors could distract management from current operations that may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. Merger and acquisition transactions are motivated by many factors, including, among others, our desire to grow our business, obtain recurring support and maintenance revenue streams, acquire skilled personnel, obtain new technologies and expand and enhance our product offerings or markets. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and the Company cannot be certain that any acquisition will be successful and will not materially harm the Company’s business, operating results or financial condition. Generally, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: (i) the benefits of the acquisition (such as cost savings and synergies) not materializing as planned or not materializing within the time periods or to the extent anticipated; (ii) the Company’s ability to manage acquired entities’ people and processes, particularly those that are headquartered in separate geographical locations from the Company’s headquarters; (iii) the possibility that the Company will pay more than the value it derives from the acquisition; (iv) difficulties in integration of the operations, technologies, content and products of the acquired companies; (v) the assumption of certain known and unknown liabilities of the acquired companies; (vi) difficulties in retaining key relationships with customers, partners and suppliers of the acquired company; (vii) the risk of diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; (viii) the Company’s ability to issue new releases of the acquired company’s products on existing or other platforms; (ix) negative impact to the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and the potential write down of impaired goodwill and intangible assets resulting from combining the acquired company’s financial condition and results of operations with our financial statements; (x) risks of entering markets in which the Company has no or limited direct prior experience; (xi) incurring significant legal and accounts costs to investigate and analyze potential merger opportunities which fail to be completed; and (xii) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. Realization of any of these risks in connection with any technology transaction or asset purchase we have entered into, or may enter into, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in our revenue recognition model could result in short-term declines in revenue. Historically, we have recognized revenue for a high percentage of our license transactions on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting or upon the delivery of product. If we were to enter into new types of transactions accounted for on a subscription or term basis, revenues might be recognized over a longer period of time. The impact of this change might make revenue recognition more predictable over the long term, but it might also result in a short-term reduction of revenue as the new transactions took effect. We may encounter unexpected delays in maintaining the requisite internal controls over financial reporting and we expect to incur ongoing expenses and diversion of management’s time as a result of performing future system and process evaluation, testing and remediation required to comply with future management assessment and auditor attestation requirements. 23 Table of Contents Management must report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to, our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of SOX, within the time frame required by Section 404. We may encounter unexpected delays in satisfying those requirements. Accordingly, we cannot be certain about the timely completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact that these activities will have on our operations. We also expect to incur ongoing expenses and diversion of management’s time as a result of performing ongoing system and process evaluations and the testing and remediation required to comply with management’s assessment and auditor attestation requirements. If we are not able to timely comply with the requirements set forth in Section 404 in future periods, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by the regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our business or financial results. We may experience additional volatility in our operating results as a result of our periodic evaluation of our goodwill and deferred tax assets. We have recorded significant goodwill and deferred tax asset balances that are subject to periodic evaluation of either impairment or realizability evaluations under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Such evaluations are based on factors including our future profitability and market value. As a result, if we experience significant declines in those measurements, these assets could be subject to impairment or write-off, which would result in additional volatility to our operating results. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 