Item 1A. Risk Factors The following sets forth our current knowledge of material risk factors that may affect our future results. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially affected due to any of the following risks. We face risks described but not limited to those detailed below. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes. We are dependent on sales to a relatively small number of customers and a disruption in sales to any one of these customers could materially harm our financial results. Our business is highly dependent on a limited number of OEM customers. For example, sales to Sun accounted for 82.0% and 63.2% of our net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007, respectively. In addition, sales to NetApp accounted for 12.5% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. We expect Sun, NetApp and HP will each represent greater than 10% of our overall revenues for the year ending December 31, 2008. If our relationships with Sun, NetApp, HP, Fujitsu Siemens, or certain of our other OEM customers were disrupted, we would lose a significant portion of our anticipated net revenue and our business could be materially harmed. We cannot guarantee that our relationship with Sun, NetApp, HP, Fujitsu Siemens or our other OEM customers will expand or not otherwise be disrupted. Factors that could influence our relationship with our significant OEM customers, including Sun, NetApp, HP and Fujitsu Siemens include: • our ability to maintain our products at prices that are competitive with those of other storage system suppliers; • our ability to maintain quality levels for our products sufficient to meet the expectations of our OEM customers; • our ability to produce, ship and deliver a sufficient quantity of our products in a timely manner to meet the needs of our OEM customers; • our ability to continue to develop and launch new products that our OEM customers feel meet their needs and requirements, with respect to cost, timeliness, features, performance and other factors; • our ability to provide timely, responsive and accurate customer support to our OEM customers; and • the ability of Sun, NetApp, HP, Fujitsu Siemens or our other OEM customers to effectively launch, ramp, ship, sell and market their own solutions based on our products. The market for our products is subject to substantial pricing pressure that may harm our net revenues, gross margins and operating results. Pricing pressures exist in the data storage market and have affected and may, in the future, continue to affect our net revenues, gross margins and operating results. These pricing pressures are due, in part, to continuing 16 Table of Contents decreases in component prices, such as those of disks, memory, semiconductors and RAID controllers. Decreases in component prices are typically passed on to customers by storage companies through a continuing decrease in the price of storage hardware systems. Pricing pressures are also due, in part, to the highly competitive nature of our industry, the narrowing of functional differences among competitors, which forces companies to compete more on price rather than product features, and the introduction of new technologies, which leaves older technology more vulnerable to pricing pressures. To the extent we are forced to reduce the prices of our products sold as a result of these pressures, our net revenues, gross margins and operating results could decline. Pricing pressures also exist from our significant OEM customers that may attempt to change the terms, including pricing and payment terms of their agreements with us. As our OEM customers are pressured to reduce prices as a result of competitive factors, we may be required to contractually, or otherwise, commit to price reductions for our products prior to determining if we can implement corresponding cost reductions. If we are unable to achieve such cost reductions, or have to reduce the pricing of our products, our gross margins may be negatively impacted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our OEM customers may have very aggressive product launch and ramp schedules and our efforts to accommodate these schedules may divert our management’s attention, cause component shortages and force us to allocate products across many customers, all of which could harm our customer relations. In January 2008, we entered into an expanded partnership with HP to provide private-label RAID storage arrays. In February 2008, HP indicated that they were planning to launch products based upon our technology and that they would start to ship these products in March 2008. Our efforts to accommodate this and other similar launch and ramp schedules may divert management’s attention from the rest of our business and force us to allocate product volumes across many customers due to component shortages, all of which could harm our relations with customers. In addition, we may be required to incur overtime, expedite charges and other charges such as shipping products by air as opposed to by ocean as a result of efforts to meet such schedules. Any of these factors could result in lower revenue and margin as well as increased operating expenses which would have an impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our contracts with our OEM customers do not include minimum purchase requirements and are not exclusive, and we cannot assure you that our relationship with these major customers will not be terminated or will generate significant sales. None of our contracts with our existing customers, including Sun, NetApp, HP and Fujitsu Siemens, contain any minimum purchasing commitments and our customers may cancel purchase orders at any time. Consequently, our customers generally order only through written purchase orders. Further, we do not expect that future contracts with customers, if any, will include any minimum purchasing commitments. Changes in the timing, or volume of purchases by our major customers, could result in lower revenue. For example, we cannot be certain that our sales to Sun will continue at historical levels or sales to NetApp, HP, or any of our OEM customers, will ramp to expected levels. In fact, sales to Sun have continued to decrease compared to earlier levels. In addition, our existing contracts do not require our OEM customers to purchase our products exclusively or on a preferential basis over the products of any of our competitors. Consequently, our OEM customers may sell the products of our competitors. For example, in April 2006, we were informed by Sun of its decision to move potential future supply of a new, low-end, entry-level storage product to another party. The project had previously been directed solely to Dot Hill. We cannot be certain if, when or to what extent any customer might cancel purchase orders, cease making purchases or elect not to renew the applicable contract upon the expiration of the current term. The decision by any of our OEM customers to cancel purchase orders, cease making purchases or terminate their respective contracts could cause our revenues to decline substantially, and our business and results of operations could be significantly harmed. 17 Table of Contents The requirement of a few of our larger OEM customers to locate finished goods inventory in vendor managed “hubs” could result in a reduction in working capital and cash. A few of our larger OEM customers including NetApp, HP and Fujitsu Siemens deploy vendor managed inventory, or VMI hubs, whereby vendors, including us, are required to provide for up to several weeks of finished goods inventory. This inventory is typically located at hubs close to our OEM customer’s final assembly facilities. As of December 31, 2007, we had net inventory of $9.0 million, up from $2.2 million as of December 31, 2006, primarily resulting from inventory hubbing requirements with NetApp and Fujitsu Siemens. If our business with these customers increases, we expect inventory levels at these hubs to grow, which could result in a reduction of cash and increasing inventory loss and obsolescence risk, all of which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we expect to add additional inventory in support of our amended agreement with HP. Our revenues may be affected by changes in IT spending levels. In the past, unfavorable or uncertain macroeconomic conditions and reduced global IT spending rates have adversely affected the markets in which we operate. The risk of a pending recession could reduce the demand for our products and negatively impact revenues and operating profit. We are unable to predict changes in general macroeconomic conditions and when global IT spending rates will be affected. Furthermore, even if IT spending rates increase, we cannot be certain that the market for external storage solutions will be positively impacted. If there are future reductions in either domestic or international IT spending rates, or if IT spending rates do not increase, our revenues, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. We may continue to experience losses in the future, and may require additional capital. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we incurred a net loss of $60.2 million. In 2008, we expect our business to remain volatile as we are unable to reliably predict revenues from Sun, NetApp, HP, Fujitsu Siemens and our other OEM customers. In addition, we will have to make investments in people, inventory and capital equipment to support our amended agreement with HP. Revenue levels achieved from HP and our other customers, our ability to introduce new products as planned, and our ability to reduce product costs and manage our operating expenses and manufacturing variances, will affect our financial results for 2008. Consequently, we cannot assure you that we will be profitable in any future period, or that these attempts at mitigation will be successful. Our available cash, cash equivalents and short term investments as of December 31, 2007 totaled $82.4 million. We presently expect cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and cash generated from operations to be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements through at least the next 12 months. However, unanticipated events may require us to raise additional funds. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase substantially as a result of many factors, including: • the increased inventory requirements due to contractual requirements with NetApp, HP and Fujitsu Siemens; • we expect to utilize $10-$20 million in cash over prior projections to support additional finished goods inventory in HP designated locations and to make incremental investments in organizational capabilities and test infrastructure; • our ability to meet product delivery schedules for HP and other customers which could result in increased air freight, expedite and overtime charges; • our plans to maintain and enhance our engineering, research, development and product testing programs; • our need for additional tooling to support increased volumes or in support of disaster recovery plans; • our ability to achieve targeted gross profit margins and cost reduction objectives; • our ability to contain operating expenses and manufacturing variances; • our ability to reach break-even or profitability; • the extent to which we rationalize our facilities or organization; • the success of our manufacturing strategy; 18 Table of Contents • the success of our sales and marketing efforts; • the amount of field failures resulting in product replacements or recalls; • the extent and terms of any development, marketing or other arrangements; • changes in economic, regulatory or competitive conditions; • costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing intellectual property rights; and • costs of litigating and defending law suits. We may not be able to raise additional funds on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any sales of convertible debt or equity securities in the future may have a substantial dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. If we are able to borrow funds, we may be required to grant liens on our assets to the provider of any source of financing or enter into operating debt service or working capital covenants with any provider of financing that could hinder our ability to operate our business in accordance with our plans. As a result, our ability to further borrow money on a secured basis may be impaired, and we may not be able to issue secured debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. A significant percentage of our expenses are fixed, and if we fail to generate targeted revenues or margins in associated periods, our operating results will be harmed. We may have to take further measures to reduce expenses if revenue declines and we experience greater operating losses or do not achieve a stable net income. A number of factors could preclude us from successfully bringing costs and expenses in line with our net revenue, such as the fact that our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future sales, and that a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed, which limits our ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any shortfalls in net revenue or margin. As a result, if net revenue, product margin, or gross margin, do not meet our projections, operating results may be negatively affected. We may experience shortfalls in net revenue or margins for various reasons, including: • significant pricing pressures that occur because of declines in selling prices over the life of a product or because of increased competition; • sudden shortages of raw materials or fabrication, test or assembly capacity constraints that lead our suppliers and manufacturers to allocate available supplies or capacity to others, which, in turn, may harm our ability to meet our sales obligations or we may have to incur additional charges to expedite product shipments to customers; • product supply shortages due to increased demands of our OEM customers, which could also harm our relationships with our customers; • the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of customer orders; • our inability to drive down component costs or adequately manage price variances on components; • our inability to market products with competitive features, or the inability to market certain products in any form, due to the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties; and • product defects or quality issues that may result in higher product return rates and failure rates. In addition, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which is highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. Our customer’s forecasts have not historically demonstrated a high degree of accuracy. From time to time, in response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from our outside suppliers, we may order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. This advance ordering may result in excess inventory levels or unanticipated inventory write-downs due to expected orders that fail to materialize. 19 Table of Contents The transition of manufacturing of our products and potentially other products to MiTAC and SYNNEX could impact our operating results. Our decision to enter into a manufacturing agreement with MiTAC and SYNNEX in February 2007 was partly based upon our belief that we could achieve lower manufacturing and product transformation costs. While much of this transition is now completed for our Series 2000 and successor products we need to refine and expand processes, tooling and manufacturing infrastructure. Consequently, there could be additional costs or capacity constraints that could negatively impact expected gross margins and revenues. We are currently evaluating migrating the manufacturing of products for NetApp to MiTAC and SYNNEX from Flextronics. During this transition, we could also have surplus raw materials, finished goods, at Flextronics, which could result in write-downs and/or lower margins. In addition, if we experience any product quality or manufacturing capacity issues, we could impact revenues from customers as well as their satisfaction with our products. The pricing we received from contract manufacturers was predicated on volume expectations. If however, we are unable to give any of our contract manufacturers sufficient volumes of products to manufacture on our behalf, our contract manufacturers are likely to become less responsive to us and seek to increase prices, which could potentially negatively impact margins and profits. In addition, our new relationship with MiTAC and SYNNEX may negatively impact our relationship with Flextronics, and thus we cannot be assured that there will not be any strains on the relationship between the two companies that could impact product cost, quality or our ability to meet product delivery schedules. Our inability to lower product costs or changes in the mix of products we sell may significantly impact our gross margins and operating results. Our gross margins are determined in large part based on our manufacturing costs, our component costs and our ability to include RAID controllers, and low cost value added features into our products, as well as the prices at which we sell our products. If we are unable to lower production costs to be consistent with our projections or any decline in selling prices, our gross margins and operating results will suffer. Several of the new products we are currently shipping or expect to begin shipping are in the early stages of their lifecycle. Our historical experience indicates that gross margins on new products are low initially and increase over time as a result of maturing manufacturing processes, component cost reductions and engineering the products to reduce costs. If we fail to achieve these margin improvements, our gross margins will be negatively impacted and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. Additional factors which could adversely impact gross margin dollars and gross margin percentage include: • changes in the mix of products we sell to our customers; • increased price competition; • introduction of new products by us or our competitors, including products with price performance advantages; • our inability to reduce production or component costs; • entry into new markets or the acquisition of new customers; • sales discounts and marketing development funds; • ongoing revaluation of the Chinese RMB compared to the US dollar; • increases in material or labor costs; • excess inventory, inventory shrinkages and losses and inventory holding charges; • reductions in component costs purchased on our behalf by our contract manufacturers or owned by us in inventory resulting in purchase price variances; • increased warranty costs and costs associated with any potential future product quality and product defect issues; 20 Table of Contents • our inability to sell our higher performance Series 5000 and Series 2000 products and our data management services software; • component shortages which can result in expedite fees, overtime or increased use of air freight; • increased freight costs resulting from the need to expedite shipments of components to our contract manufacturer or finished goods to some of our customers and their hub locations; and • increases in headcount and expenses required to support our new customers. Some of our strategies to offset gross margin erosion include: • shifting our manufacturing to lower cost suppliers, such as MiTAC and SYNNEX, as we did with our Series 2000 and 5000 products and transitioning the manufacturing of other products to MiTAC and SYNNEX; • leveraging our volumes created by our new design wins to secure additional component cost and manufacturing transformation cost reductions; • bundling our data management services software into our products; and • increasing adoption of our higher performance Series 5000 and Series 2000 Turbo products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing these strategies to mitigate gross margin erosion. All of these factors, together with increasing pricing pressures, could further adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. Our financial condition will be materially harmed if we do not maintain competitiveness and gain acceptance of our products. The markets in which we compete involve rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and continuing improvements in products and services. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to: • enhance our current products and develop and introduce in a timely manner new products that keep pace with technological developments and industry standards; • compete effectively on the basis of price and performance; and • adequately address OEM and end-user customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. We believe that to remain competitive, we will need to continue to develop new products, which will require a significant investment in new product development. Our competitors are developing alternative technologies, which may adversely affect the market acceptance of our products. If alternative technologies and interface protocols are adopted by the industry that we have not incorporated into our products, we may become uncompetitive and not have product offerings for select market segments. Even if our new products are developed on time, we may not be able to manufacture them at competitive prices or in sufficient volumes. Liquidity problems or bankruptcy of some our small OEM customers could increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase accounts receivable and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The revenue from our smaller OEM customers is increasing and they may not be as well capitalized nor do they have the financial resources of our historical customer base. In addition, our sales to all our customers are typically made on credit without collateral. There is a risk that customers will not pay, or that payment may be delayed, because of their liquidity constraints, or because they are awaiting payment from their customers, or other factors beyond our control, which could increase our exposure to losses from bad debts, or increase accounts receivable, and thus reduce cash. 21 Table of Contents Product recalls, epidemic failures, post-manufacture repairs of our products liability claims, absence or cost of insurance, and associated costs could harm our reputation, divert resources, reduce sales and increase costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our new integrated storage systems, as well as our legacy products, may contain undetected errors, or failures, that become epidemic failure, which may be discovered after shipment, resulting in a loss of revenue, or a loss or delay in market acceptance, which could harm our business. The product failure or recall could be the result of components purchased from our suppliers not meeting the required specifications, manufacturing defects or from our own design deficiencies. During the first half of 2007, we experienced several product quality issues associated with our then recently introduced Series 2000 products. The cost of rectifying these issues had a negative impact on margins during the first half of 2007. Even if the errors are detected before shipment, such errors could result in the halting of production, the delay of shipments, recovery costs, loss of goodwill, tarnishment of reputation and/or a substantial decrease in revenue. Our standard warranty provides that if our systems do not function to published specifications, we will repair or replace the defective component or system without charge generally for a period of about three years. Significant warranty costs, particularly those that exceed reserves, could decrease our margin and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, defects in our products could result in our customers claiming property damages, consequential damages, or bodily injury, which could also result in our loss of customers and goodwill. None of our customers have thus far asserted claims, but may in the future assert claims, that our products have failed to meet agreed-to specifications or that they have sustained injuries from our products, and we may be subject to lawsuits relating to these claims. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside of the scope of our insurance coverage. Any such claim could distract management’s attention from operating our business and, if successful, result in damage claims against us that might not be covered by our insurance. Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations, and our period-to- period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful and we may not meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors. Our revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent upon customer orders in that quarter. We attempt to project future orders based in part on estimates from our OEM customers. For this purpose, arrangements with OEM customers will usually include the estimated future volume requirements of that customer. Our OEM customers’ estimated requirements are not often accurate and we therefore cannot predict our quarterly revenues with any degree of certainty. Moreover, we cannot predict or control our customers’ product launch dates, volume ramps and other factors than may result in substantial fluctuations on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, Sun’s quarterly operating results typically fluctuate downward in the first quarter of their fiscal year when compared with the immediately preceding fourth quarter. It is likely that NetApp’s and HP’s sales as well as sales of our other new OEM customers of storage products supplied by us will fluctuate on a quarterly or seasonal basis as well, and these fluctuations will affect our financial results. Due to the infancy of the NetApp and HP relationships, we cannot be certain of what affect these fluctuations will have on our quarterly results. 22 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past as shown in the following table and are not a good indicator of future performance (in millions). Quarter Net Revenue Net Income (Loss) First Quarter 2004 $ 47.9 $ (2.6 ) Second Quarter 2004 69.0 6.7 Third Quarter 2004 57.0 3.5 Fourth Quarter 2004 65.5 4.0 First Quarter 2005 58.0 2.1 Second Quarter 2005 65.9 3.3 Third Quarter 2005 53.6 (1.3 ) Fourth Quarter 2005* 56.3 22.5 First Quarter 2006 58.7 (5.0 ) Second Quarter 2006 66.3 (6.6 ) Third Quarter 2006** 54.8 (60.1 ) Fourth Quarter 2006 59.4 (9.1 ) First Quarter 2007 53.4 (6.0 ) Second Quarter 2007 56.2 (3.7 ) Third Quarter 2007 45.7 (4.1 ) Fourth Quarter 2007*** 51.8 (46.4 ) * Includes deferred tax benefit from reversal of valuation allowance of $25.3 million. ** Includes income tax expense related to reestablishing valuation allowance of $47.1 million. *** Includes write off of $40.7 in goodwill Accordingly, comparisons of our quarterly results of operations or other period to period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. In addition, the announcement of financial results that fall short of the results anticipated by public market analysts and investors could have an immediate and significant negative effect on the trading price of our common stock in any given period. We may have difficulty predicting future operating results due to both internal and external factors affecting our business and operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results may vary significantly in the future depending on a number of factors, many of which are out of our control, including: • the size, timing, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; • our ability to reduce fixed expenses; • our customer policies pertaining to desired inventory levels of our products and the levels of inventory our customers require us to maintain in their designated inventory hub locations; • changes in the mix or average selling prices of our products; • market acceptance of our new products and product enhancements and new product announcements or introductions by our competitors; • product configuration, mix and quality issues; • changes in pricing by us or our competitors; • the cost of litigation and settlements involving intellectual property and other issues; • deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements; 23 Table of Contents • our ability to ramp our manufacturing to keep up with demand from our customers; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and product enhancements on a timely basis; • hardware component costs and availability, particularly with respect to hardware components obtained from sole-source providers and major component suppliers such as disk drives, memory, sole source semiconductors and legacy RAID controllers; • our success in creating brand awareness and in expanding our sales and marketing programs; • the level of competition; • gain or loss of customers; • potential increases or reductions in inventories held by OEM customers; • slowing sales of the products of our OEM customers; • technological changes in the open systems storage market, some of which could potentially be breakthrough technologies that may provide competitors cost or performance advantages; • levels of expenditures on research, engineering and product development; • levels of expenditures in our manufacturing and support organization and our ability to manage variances in component costs and inventory levels of components held by our manufacturing partners; • longer than anticipated product integration cycles for our products; • the quality and timeliness of products being manufactured by Flextronics, MiTAC and SYNNEX and compliance with environmental regulations or related requirements of our OEM customers; • changes in our business strategies; • actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions and estimates used in determining the value of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances and valuation of goodwill), liabilities and other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements; • changes in accounting rules or changes in our accounting policies; • changes in effective income tax rates, including those resulting from changes in tax laws; • personnel changes; and • general economic and other conditions affecting the timing of customer orders and capital spending or conditions in the global economy that impact IT spending. Due to these factors, as well as other unanticipated factors, it is likely that in some future quarter, or quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, and as a result, the price of our common stock could significantly decrease. Our sales cycle varies substantially and future net revenue in any period may be lower than our historical revenues or forecasts. Our sales are difficult to forecast because the open systems storage market is rapidly evolving and our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer. Customer orders for our products can range in value from a few thousand dollars to over a million dollars. The length of time between initial contact with a potential customer and the sale of our product may last from six to 36 months. This is particularly true during times of economic slowdown, for sales to OEM customers and for the sale and installation of complex solutions. We have shifted our business strategy to focus primarily on OEM customers, with whom sales cycles are generally longer, more costly and less certain than direct sales to end-users, or sales through VARs. Additional factors that may extend our sales cycle, particularly orders for new products, include: • the amount of time needed for technical evaluations by customers; 24 Table of Contents • customers’ budget constraints and changes to customers’ budgets during the course of the sales cycle; • customers’ internal review and testing procedures; • our engineering work necessary to integrate a storage solution with a customer’s system; • the complexity of technical challenges that need to be overcome during the development, testing and/or qualification process for new products and/or new customers; • meeting unique customer specifications and requirements; and • difficulties by our customers in integrating our products and technologies into their own products. Our net revenue is difficult for us to predict since it is directly affected by the timing of large orders. Due to the unpredictable timing of customer orders, we may ship products representing a significant portion of our net sales for a quarter during the last month of that quarter. In addition, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future sales. As a result, if sales levels are below expectations, our operating results may be disproportionately affected. We cannot assure you that our sales will not decline in future periods. Manufacturing and supplier disruptions could harm our business. We rely on third parties to manufacture all of our products. If our agreements with Flextronics, MiTAC or SYNNEX are terminated, or if they do not perform their obligations under our agreement, or if we otherwise determine to transition manufacturing of our products to another third party manufacturer, it could take several months to establish and qualify alternative manufacturing for our products and we may not be able to fulfill our customers’ orders in a timely manner. In addition, Flextronics recently acquired Solectron and there is no assurance that the combined company will not terminate, or otherwise seek to modify the terms of our agreement with Flextronics, and any such termination or modification may also require us to establish and qualify alternative manufacturing for our products. Any such transition would also require a significant amount of our management’s attention. Under our OEM agreements with Sun and NetApp, they have the right to require that we use a third party to manufacture our products. Such an external manufacturer must meet the engineering, qualification and logistics requirements of both Sun and NetApp. If our agreements with Flextronics, MiTAC or SYNNEX terminate, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify a suitable alternative manufacturing partner that meets the requirements of our OEM customers and one that is cost competitive. Failure to identify a suitable alternative manufacturing partner could impact our customer relationships and our financial condition. Due to our use of third-party manufacturers, our ability to control the timing of shipments could decrease. Delayed shipment could result in the deferral or cancellation of purchases of our products. Any significant deferral or cancellation of these sales would harm our results of operations in any particular quarter. Net revenue for a period may be lower than predicted if large orders forecasted for that period are delayed or are not realized, which could impact cash flow or result in a decline in our stock price. To the extent we establish a relationship with an alternative manufacturer for our products, we may be able to partially mitigate potential disruptions to our business. We may also suffer manufacturing disruptions as we ramp up manufacturing processes for our new integrated storage systems, which could result in delays in delivery of these products to our OEM customers and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, production of our products could be disrupted as a result of geo-political events in Asia and other manufacturing locations. We also generally extend to our customers the warranties provided to us by our suppliers and, accordingly, the majority of our warranty obligations to customers are covered by supplier warranties. For warranty costs not covered by our suppliers, we reserve for estimated warranty costs in the period the revenue is recognized. There can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to provide such warranties to us in the future, or that we have estimated these costs correctly, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The loss of one or more suppliers could slow or interrupt the production and sales of our products. Our third party manufacturers rely on other third parties to supply key components of our storage products. Many of these components are available only from limited sources in the quantities and quality we require. From 25 Table of Contents time to time there is significant market demand for disk drives, semiconductors, RAID controllers, memory and other components, and we may experience component shortages, selective supply allocations and increased prices of such components. In such event, we may be required to purchase our components from alternative suppliers, and we cannot be certain that alternative sources of supplies will be available at competitive terms. Even if alternative sources of supply for critical components such as disk drives and controllers become available, incorporating substitute components into our products could delay our ability to deliver our products in a timely manner. For example, we estimate that replacing key components we currently use in our products with those of another supplier, could involve several months of hardware and software modification, which could significantly harm our ability to meet our customers’ orders for our products, damage our customer relationships and result in a loss of sales. Any shortage of disk drives, memory or other components could increase our costs or harm our ability to manufacture and deliver our storage products to our customers in a timely manner. Demand for disk drives and memory has at times surpassed supply, forcing drive, memory and component suppliers, including those who supply the components that are integrated into many of our storage products, to manage allocation of their inventory. If such a shortage were prolonged, we may be forced to pay higher prices for disk drives, memory or components or may be unable to purchase sufficient quantities of these components to meet our customers’ demand for our storage products in a timely manner or at all. Similar circumstances could occur with respect to other necessary components. The market for storage systems is intensely competitive and our results of operations, pricing and business could be harmed if we fail to maintain or expand our market position. The storage market is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapidly changing technology. We compete primarily against independent storage system suppliers, including EMC, NetApp, Hitachi, LSI, Infortrend and Xyratex, but also against server companies such as HP, IBM, Sun and Dell as well as smaller storage companies. The server companies and independent storage systems suppliers are also potential customers as well and as indicated we have established a relationship with Sun, NetApp and HP. Future competitors could include original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers, some of whom we partner with today. Many of our existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than us. As a result, they may have more advanced technology, larger distribution channels, stronger brand names, better customer service and access to more customers than we do. Other large companies with significant resources could become direct competitors, either through acquiring a competitor or through internal efforts. Additionally, a number of new, privately held companies are currently attempting to enter the storage market, some of which may become significant competitors in the future. Any of these existing or potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products or deliver competitive products at lower prices than us. We could also lose current or future business to any of our suppliers or manufacturers, some of which directly and indirectly compete with us. Currently, we leverage our supply and manufacturing relationships to provide a significant share of our products. Our suppliers and manufacturers are very familiar with the specific attributes of our products and may be able to provide our customers with similar products. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidation and the creation of companies with new, innovative product offerings. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors, or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, and may reduce 26 Table of Contents operating margins and create a potential loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the storage systems market include: • performance, features, scalability and reliability; • price; • product breadth; • product availability and quality; • timeliness of new product introductions; and • interoperability and ease of management. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully incorporate these factors into our products and compete against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. If we are unable to develop and market products to compete with the products of competitors, our business will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if major OEM customers who are also competitors cease purchasing our products in order to concentrate on sales of their own products, our business will be harmed. The open systems storage market is rapidly changing and we may be unable to keep pace with or properly prepare for the effects of those changes. The open systems data storage market in which we operate is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, new interface protocol, evolving industry standards and consolidation among our competitors, suppliers and customers. Customer preferences in this market are difficult to predict and changes in those preferences and the introduction of new products by our competitors or us could render our existing products obsolete or uncompetitive. Our success will depend upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of customers, to enhance existing products, and to develop and introduce on a timely basis, new competitive products, including new software and hardware, and enhancements to existing software and hardware that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. If we cannot successfully identify, manage, develop, manufacture or market product enhancements or new products, our business will be harmed. In addition, consolidation among our competitors, suppliers and customers may harm our business by increasing the resources of our competitors, reducing the number of suppliers available to us for our product components and increasing competition for customers by reducing the number of customer-purchasing decisions. Our success depends significantly upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and to avoid infringing the intellectual property of third parties, which has already resulted in costly, time-consuming litigation and could result in the inability to offer certain products. We rely primarily on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and common law to protect our intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property from third party discovery and infringement may be insufficient and third parties may independently develop technologies similar to ours, duplicate our products or design around our patents. In addition, third parties may assert infringement claims against us, which would require us to incur substantial license fees, legal fees and other expenses, and distract management from the operations of our business. For example, in 2003, Crossroads Systems filed a lawsuit against us alleging that our products infringe two United States patents assigned to Crossroads. In 2006, we entered into a Settlement and License Agreement with Crossroads that settles the lawsuit and licenses to us the family of patents from which it stemmed. We incurred significant legal expenses in connection with these matters. Other third parties may assert additional infringement claims against us in the future, which would similarly require us to incur substantial license fees, legal fees and other expenses, and distract management from the operations of our business. 27 Table of Contents We expect that providers of storage products will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors increases. In addition to the formal claims brought against us by Crossroads, we receive, from time to time, letters from third parties suggesting that we may require a license from such third parties to manufacture or sell our products. We evaluate all such communications to assess whether to seek a license from the patent owner. We may be required to purchase licenses that could have a material impact on our business, or, we may not be able to obtain the necessary license from a third party on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Consequently, we could be prohibited from marketing products that incorporate the protected technology or incur substantial costs to redesign our products in a manner to avoid infringement of third party intellectual property rights. Environmental compliance costs could adversely affect our net income. Many of our products are subject to various laws governing chemical substances in products, including those regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. We could incur substantial costs, or our products could be restricted from entering certain countries, if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. We face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances that apply to specified electronic products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS). We design our products to ensure that they comply with these requirements as well as related requirements imposed by our OEM customers. We are also working with our suppliers to provide us with compliant materials, parts and components. If our products do not comply with the European substance restrictions, we could become subject to fines, civil or criminal sanctions, and contract damage claims. In addition, we could be prohibited from shipping non-compliant products into the European Union, and required to recall and replace any products already shipped, if such products were found to be non-compliant, which would disrupt our ability to ship products and result in reduced revenue, increased obsolete or excess inventories and harm to our business and customer relationships. We also must successfully manage the transition to RoHS-compliant products in order to minimize the effects of product inventories that may become excess or obsolete, as well as ensure that sufficient supplies of RoHS-compliant products can be delivered to meet customer demand. Failure to manage this transition may adversely impact our revenues and operating results. Various other countries and states in the United States have issued, or are in the process of issuing, other environmental regulations that may impose additional restrictions or obligations and require further changes to our products. These regulations could impose a significant cost of doing business in those countries and states. The European Union has enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The deadline for the individual member states of the European Union to enact the directive in their respective countries was August 13, 2004. Producers participating in the market became financially responsible for implementing these responsibilities beginning in August 2005. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Canada, Mexico, China and Japan, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our performance depends in significant part on our ability to attract and retain talented senior management and other key personnel. Our key personnel include Dana Kammersgard, our Chief Executive Officer and President, Hanif Jamal, our Chief Financial Officer, Phil Davis, our Executive Vice President of Worldwide Field Operations, James Kuenzel, our Senior Vice President of Engineering, and Robert Finley, our Vice President of Manufacturing and Operations. If any of these individuals were to terminate his employment with us, we would be required to locate and hire a suitable replacement. Competition for attracting talented employees in the technology industry is intense. We may be unable to identify suitable replacements for any employees that we lose. In addition, even if we are successful in locating suitable replacements, the time and cost involved in recruiting, hiring, training and integrating new employees, particularly key employees responsible for significant portions of our operations, could 28 Table of Contents harm our business by delaying our production schedule, our research and development efforts, our ability to execute on our business strategy and our client development and marketing efforts. Many of our customer relationships are based on personal relationships between the customer and our executives or sales representatives. If these representatives terminate their employment with us, we may be forced to expend substantial resources to attempt to retain the customers that the sales representatives serviced. Ultimately, if we were unsuccessful in retaining these customers, our net revenue would decline. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates own a significant percentage of our outstanding shares, which could prevent us from being acquired and adversely affect our stock price. As of December 31, 2007, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 9.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock. These individuals may be able to influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of a majority of our directors. The voting power of these stockholders under certain circumstances could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. This concentration of ownership may also make it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain financing. Further, any substantial sale of shares by these individuals could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital in the future through the sale of our equity securities. Protective provisions in our charter and bylaws and the existence of our stockholder rights plan could prevent a takeover which could harm our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain a number of provisions that could impede a takeover or prevent us from being acquired, including, but not limited to, a classified board of directors, the elimination of our stockholders’ ability to take action by written consent and limitations on the ability of our stockholders to remove a director from office without cause. Our board of directors may issue additional shares of common stock or establish one or more classes or series of preferred stock with such designations, relative voting rights, dividend rates, liquidation and other rights, preferences and limitations as determined by our board of directors without stockholder approval. In addition, we adopted a stockholder rights plan in May 2003 that is designed to impede takeover transactions that are not supported by our board of directors. Each of these charter and bylaw provisions and the stockholder rights plan gives our board of directors, acting without stockholder approval, the ability to prevent, or render more difficult or costly, the completion of a takeover transaction that our stockholders might view as being in their best interests. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our net income. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rates have recently been and could in the future be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those tax laws, by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, by discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Our effective income tax rates are also affected by intercompany transactions for licenses, services, funding and other items. Additionally, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities which may result in the assessment of additional income taxes. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. However, there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Interpretation No. 48, or FIN 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.” FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in an income tax return. It also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. We adopted FIN 48 29 Table of Contents during the first quarter of fiscal 2007. There is a risk that the adoption of FIN 48 could result in future inter-period effective income tax rate volatility. The exercise of outstanding warrants may result in dilution to our stockholders. Dilution of the per share value of our common stock could result from the exercise of outstanding warrants. As of December 31, 2007 there were outstanding warrants to purchase 337,742 shares of our common stock. The warrants have exercise prices ranging from $3.25 to $4.50 per share and expire at various dates through March 14, 2008. Additionally, on January 4, 2008 in connection with amending our agreement with HP, we issued a fully vested warrant to HP to purchase 1,602,489 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $2.40 per share. The warrant is exercisable for a period of five years from the date of issuance. When the exercise price of the warrants is less than the trading price of our common stock, exercise of the warrants would have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. The possibility of the issuance of shares of our common stock upon exercise of the warrants could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Furthermore, it is also possible that future large customers or suppliers, make our relationship with them contingent on receiving warrants to purchase Dot Hill’s common stock. The impact of potentially issuing additional warrants can have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. Our stock price may be highly volatile and could decline substantially and unexpectedly, which has resulted in litigation. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially, and there can be no assurance that such volatility will not continue. Several factors could impact our stock price including, but not limited to: • differences between our actual operating results and the published expectations of analysts; • quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; • introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by our competitors or us; • conditions in the markets in which we operate; • changes in market projections by industry forecasters; • changes in estimates of our earnings by industry analysts; • overall market conditions for high technology equities; • rumors or dissemination of false information; and • general economic and geopolitical conditions. It is often the case that securities class action litigation is brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. For example, in late January and early February 2006, numerous purported class action complaints were filed against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California. The complaints seek damages based on alleged violations of federal securities laws related to alleged inflation in our stock price in connection with various statements and alleged omissions to the public and to the securities markets and declines in our stock price in connection with the restatement of certain of our quarterly financial statements for fiscal year 2004. In addition, four complaints purporting to be derivative actions have been filed in California state court against certain of our directors and executive officers. These complaints are based on the same facts and circumstances described in the federal class action complaints and generally allege that the named directors and officers breached their fiduciary duties by failing to oversee adequately our financial reporting. Each of the complaints generally seeks an unspecified amount of damages. Securities litigation could result in the expenditure of substantial funds, divert management’s attention and resources, harm our reputation in the industry and the securities markets and reduce our profitability. 30 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock may hurt our market price. As of December 31, 2007, 41% of our common stock was owned by six institutional stockholders. As a result a substantial number of shares of our common stock may become available for resale. If these or other of our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at times and prices that we deem appropriate. Geopolitical conditions, including military action, terrorist attacks and other acts of war, political risks, civil unrest widespread pandemics, and elongated interruptions of transoceanic telecommunications lines, may materially and adversely affect the markets on which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks and other acts of war, and any response to them, may lead to armed hostilities and such developments would likely cause instability in financial markets. Armed hostilities and terrorism may directly impact our facilities, critical shipping ports, personnel and operations that are located in the United States and internationally, as well as those of our OEM customers, suppliers, third party manufacturer and customers. Furthermore, these perils may result in temporary halts of commercial activity in the affected regions, and may result in the interruption of our supply chain or reduced demand for our products. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and the trading price of our common stock. Compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are exposed to significant costs and risks associated with complying with increasingly stringent and complex regulations of corporate governance and disclosure standards. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules require growing expenditure of management time and external resources. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal controls, and attestations of the effectiveness of our internal controls by our independent registered public accounting firm. This process has required us to hire additional personnel and outside advisory services and has resulted in significant accounting, audit and legal expenses. We expect to continue to incur significant expense in future periods to comply with regulations pertaining to corporate governance as described above. In 2006 we implemented an ERP system, which was an extremely complicated, time consuming and expensive process. We will continue to upgrade and enhance our ERP system and data extraction tools to help us manage an increasingly more complex business model and establish additional internal processes and controls, all of which could result in additional significant expenses. Despite our efforts to continually enhance our systems, we cannot guarantee that our systems will continue to adequately help us manage our business. Computer viruses and other forms of tampering with our computer systems or servers may disrupt our operations and adversely affect net income. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our facilities and the facilities of our suppliers and customers are located in regions that are subject to natural disasters. Our California facilities, including our principal executive offices, are located near major earthquake faults, and close to areas that have recently been impacted by wildfires. Any bodily injury or property damage to the facilities or the surrounding infrastructure as a result of such occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, some of our products are manufactured, sold or transported in regions which have historically experienced natural disasters. Any earthquake or other natural disaster, including a hurricane or tsunami, affecting a country in which our products are manufactured or sold could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 31 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 