ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing business environment that involves many risks and uncertainties. In this section, we discuss factors that could cause, or contribute to causing, actual results to differ materially from what we expect or from any historical patterns or trends. As you evaluate our business, you should consider the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as cautionary language elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The announcement of our proposed transaction with Autonomy may impact our revenues and results of operations. On January 22, 2009, we entered into a definitive agreement to be acquired by Autonomy Corporation plc in an all-cash transaction. Pursuant to the definitive agreement and subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, Interwoven will be merged with and into a newly formed, wholly-owned subsidiary of Autonomy, with Interwoven surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Autonomy. Our announcement of our proposed transaction with Autonomy could cause a material disruption to our business. For example, to the extent that our announcement of the acquisition creates uncertainty among prospects, customers or resellers such that they delay, defer or cancel orders or terminate their respective agreements with us, or uncertainty among persons and organizations contemplating purchases of our products or services such that a significant number delay purchase decisions pending completion of our proposed transaction with Autonomy, our results of operations and quarterly revenues could be negatively affected, which would have an adverse impact on our consolidated operating results and could cause our stock price to decline. Interwoven’s businesses and operations may also be harmed to the extent that customers and others believe that the combined companies cannot effectively compete in the marketplace without the transaction, or there is employee uncertainty surrounding the future direction of the product and service offerings and strategy of Interwoven on a standalone basis. The stock prices and business of Interwoven may be adversely affected if our proposed transaction with Autonomy is not completed. Although we obtained the required approval of our stockholders to proceed with our proposed transaction with Autonomy at our Special Meeting of Stockholders held on March 11, 2009, the completion of the pending transaction remains subject to various closing conditions, including that we must have a specified minimum amount of cash, marketable securities and other eligible investments if the closing of the transaction occurs before April 22, 2009. If our proposed transaction with Autonomy is not completed, we could be subject to a number of risks that may materially and adversely affect our business and stock price, including the diversion of our management’s attention from our day-to-day business and the unavoidable disruption to our employees and our relationships with customers which, in turn, may affect our revenues and lead to a loss of market position that we might be unable to regain; our stock price may decline to the extent our current stock price reflects a market assumption that the transaction will be completed; under certain circumstances we could be required to pay Autonomy termination fee of up to $25 million; we may experience a negative reaction to any termination of the transaction from our customers, partners or employees which may adversely impact our future results of operations as a standalone entity; and the amount of the costs, fees and expenses and charges related to our proposed transaction with Autonomy and associated legal proceedings. The effects of the current global economic crisis may impact our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business may be adversely affected by the ongoing credit crises and deteriorating worldwide economic conditions. The recent global economic crisis has caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity in many financial markets, increases in the rates of defaults and volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. These economic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. For example, current or potential customers may be unable to fund software purchases, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel orders or to not pay us or to delay paying us for 12 Table of Contents previously purchased products and services. We believe these conditions are contributing to slower economic growth in many of our geographic markets, which may cause many of our customers to delay or reduce technology spending. If this happens, our business would be adversely affected in a number of important respects including reduced revenues and reduced cash flows from operations; greater than anticipated uncollectible accounts receivable and increased allowances for doubtful accounts receivable; impairment in the value of our financial and non-financial assets resulting in non-cash impairment charges; and reduced cash inflows and increased restructuring charges to the extent that actual sublease income from excess facilities is lower than currently estimated income. In addition, there could be follow-on effects from this economic crisis, such as the bankruptcy or insolvency of our business partners who recommend, resell and build add-on products to extend the functionality of our software. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles and slower adoption of our technologies. Sales cycles for our products are generally long, complex and unpredictable, so it is difficult to forecast our future results. The length of our sales cycle — the period between initial contact with a prospective customer and the licensing of our software applications — typically ranges from six to twelve months and can be more than twelve months. Customer orders often include the purchase of multiple products. These kinds of orders are complex and difficult to complete because prospective customers generally consider a number of factors over an extended period of time before committing to purchase a suite of products or applications. Prospective customers consider many factors in evaluating our software, and the length of time a customer devotes to evaluation, contract negotiation and budgeting processes vary significantly from company to company. As a result, we spend a great deal of time and resources informing prospective customers about our solutions and services, incurring expenses that will lower our operating margins if no sale occurs. Even if a customer chooses to buy our software products or services, many factors affect the timing of revenue recognition as defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which makes our revenues difficult to forecast. The factors contributing to the variability of our sales cycles include the following: • Licensing of our software products is often an enterprise-wide decision by our customers that involves many customer-specific factors, so our ability to make a sale may be affected by changes in the strategic importance of a particular project to a customer, budgetary constraints of the customer or changes in customer personnel. • Customer approval and expenditure authorization processes can be difficult and time consuming, and delays in the process could impact the timing and amount of revenues recognized in a quarter. • Changes in our sales incentive plans may have unexpected effects on our sales cycle and contracting activities. • The significance and timing of our software enhancements, and the introduction of new software by our competitors, may affect customer purchases. Our sales cycles are affected by intense customer scrutiny of software purchases regardless of transaction size. If our sales cycles lengthen, our future revenue could be lower than expected, which would have an adverse impact on our consolidated operating results and could cause our stock price to decline. Our sales incentive plans are primarily based on quarterly and annual quotas for sales representatives and some sales support personnel, and include accelerated commission rates if a representative exceeds their assigned sales quota. The concentration of sales orders with a small number of sales representatives has resulted, and in the future may result, in commission expense exceeding forecasted levels, which would result in higher sales and marketing expenses. 13 Table of Contents Many factors can cause our operating results to fluctuate and if we fail to satisfy the expectations of investors or securities analysts, our stock price may decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect unpredictable fluctuations in the future. The main factors impacting these fluctuations are likely to be: • the discretionary nature of our customers’ purchases and their budget cycles; • the inherent complexity, length and associated unpredictability of our sales cycle; • seasonal fluctuations in information technology purchasing; • the success or failure of any of our product offerings to meet with customer acceptance; • delays in recognizing revenue from license transactions; • timing of new product releases; • timing of receipt and recognition of large customer orders; • changes in competitors’ product offerings; • sales force capacity and the influence of resellers and systems integrator partners; • our ability to integrate newly acquired products or technologies with our existing products and effectively sell newly acquired or enhanced products; • the level of our sales incentive and commission-related expenses; • risks that our proposed transaction with Autonomy disrupts current plans and operations, and the potential difficulties in employee retention as a result of the announcement or pendency of the proposed transaction; • the possibility that our proposed transaction with Autonomy will not be completed for any reason; • the effect of the announcement or pendency of the proposed transaction with Autonomy on our customer relationships, operating results and business generally, including any deterioration of our relationships with resellers and strategic partners; and • the amount of the costs, fees and expenses and charges related to our proposed transaction with Autonomy and associated legal proceedings, including the possibility that the definitive agreement for our transaction with Autonomy may be terminated under circumstances that require us to pay Autonomy a termination fee of up to $25 million. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Further, because we experience seasonal variations in our operating results as part of our normal business cycle, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. If our results of operations do not meet our public forecasts or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the price of our common stock is likely to decline. We may not be able to sustain profitability. We have incurred operating losses for most of our history and had an accumulated deficit of $375.2 million as of December 31, 2008. We must increase both our license and support and service revenues to sustain profitable operations and positive cash flows. The pendency of Autonomy’s proposed acquisition of us, as well as general economic conditions, and seasonal trends due to customer buying patterns, could make it more difficult for us to sustain profitable operations and positive cash flows. If we are able to maintain profitability and positive cash flows, we cannot assure you that we can sustain or increase profitability or cash flows on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Failure to achieve such financial performance would likely cause the price of our common stock to decline. In addition, if revenues decline, resulting in greater operating losses and significant negative cash flows, our business could fail and the price of our common stock would decline. 14 Table of Contents Support and service revenues have represented a large percentage of our total revenues. Our support and service revenues are vulnerable to reduced demand and increased competition. Our support and service revenues represented approximately 63%, 62% and 62% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 respectively. Support and service revenues depend, in part, on our ability to license software products to new and existing customers that generate follow-on consulting, training and support revenues. Thus, any reduction in license revenue is likely to result in lower support and service revenues in the future. The demand for consulting, training and support services is affected by competition from independent service providers and strategic partners, resellers and other systems integrators with knowledge of our software products. Factors other than price may not be determinative of whether prospective customers of consulting services engage us or alternative service providers. We have experienced increased competition for consulting services engagements, which has resulted in an overall decrease in average billing rates for our consultants and price pressure on our software support products. If our business continues to be affected this way, our support and service revenues and the related gross margin from these revenues may decline. In the year ended December 31, 2008, our service revenue continued to be impacted by weakness in our global capital markets business, which has been impacted by the global economy and credit crisis. We believe that this weakness will negatively affect our future support and service revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recognized support revenues of $110.1 million, $95.9 million and $86.6 million, respectively. Our support agreements typically have a term of one year and are renewable thereafter for periods generally of one year. Customer support revenues are primarily influenced by the number and size of new support contracts sold in connection with software licenses and the renewal rate of existing support contracts. Customers may elect not to renew their support agreements, renew their support contracts at lower prices or may reduce the license software quantity under their support agreements, thereby reducing our future support revenue. Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The market prices of the securities of software companies, including our own, have been extremely volatile and often unrelated to their operating performance. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the price of our stock may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results, or key balance sheet metrics such as days sales outstanding; • changes in financial estimates by us or in financial estimates or recommendations by any securities analysts who cover our stock; • operating performance and stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are deemed comparable to us; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services, technological innovations, significant acquisitions, strategic relationships or divestitures; • our failure to realize the expected benefits of acquisitions; • announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; • announcements of negative conclusions about our internal controls; • articles in periodicals covering us, our competitors or our markets; • reports issued by market research and financial analysts; • capital outlays or commitments; 15 Table of Contents • additions or departures of key personnel; • sector factors including conditions or trends in our industry and the technology arena; • overall stock market factors, such as the price of oil futures, value of financial assets, interest rates and the performance of the economy; • the occurrence of any event, change or circumstance that could give rise to the ability on the part of Autonomy to terminate the definitive agreement for our proposed transaction with Autonomy; • the timing of the closing of our proposed transaction with Autonomy, including any delay caused by our failure to have a specified minimum amount of cash, marketable securities and other eligible investments that would allow us to complete the transaction on or before April 22, 2009; • the possibility that our proposed transaction with Autonomy will not be completed for any reason; • the effect of the announcement or pendency of our proposed transaction with Autonomy on our customer relationships, operating results and business generally, including any deterioration of our relationships with resellers and strategic partners; and • the amount of the costs, fees and expenses and charges related to our proposed transaction with Autonomy and associated legal proceedings. These fluctuations have made, and may make it more difficult to use our stock as currency to make acquisitions that might otherwise be advantageous, or to use stock compensation equity instruments as a means to attract and retain employees. Any shortfall in revenue or operating results compared to expectations could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, we may not learn of such shortfalls until late in the quarter and may not be able to adjust successfully to these shortfalls, which could result in an even more immediate and greater decline in the trading price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. If we become subject to any litigation of this type, we could incur substantial costs and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted while the litigation is ongoing. The timing of large customer orders may have a significant impact on our consolidated financial results from period to period. Our ability to achieve our forecasted quarterly earnings is dependent on receiving a significant number of license and service transactions in the mid to high six-figure range or possibly even larger customer orders. From time to time, we receive large customer orders that have a significant impact on our consolidated financial results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. We had six, seven and three license transactions in excess of $1.0 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our consolidated financial results are likely to vary materially from year to year based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. Additionally, it is difficult for us to accurately predict the timing of large customer orders. The loss or delay of an anticipated large order in a given quarterly period could result in a shortfall of revenues from anticipated levels. Any shortfall in revenues from levels anticipated by our stockholders and securities analysts could have a material and adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currency, particularly in Euro, British Pound and Australian Dollar and the various other local currencies of Europe and Asia, may harm our business. We are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates because we translate foreign currencies into United States Dollars for financial reporting purposes. Our primary exposures have related to operating expenses and sales in Europe and Asia that were not United States Dollar-denominated. Weakness in the United States Dollar compared to foreign currencies has significantly increased the cost of our European-based operations in recent periods, as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. We are unable to predict the extent to which expenses in future periods will be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 16 Table of Contents Currently, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency receivables. Our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Our international operations have a significant impact on our overall operating results. We have established offices in various international locations in Europe and Asia Pacific and we derive a significant portion of our revenues from these international locations. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, revenues from our international operations were approximately 40%, 37% and 36% of our total revenues, respectively. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2008, more than 20% of our operating expenses were attributable to international operations. Sales generated and expenses incurred outside of the United States are denominated in currencies other that the United States Dollar. We anticipate devoting significant resources and management attention to international opportunities and managing our international operations. This subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties including: • foreign currency fluctuations; • difficulties in attracting and retaining staff (particularly sales personnel) and managing foreign operations; • the expense of foreign operations and compliance with applicable laws; • political and economic instability; • the expense of localizing our products for sale in various international markets and providing support and services in the local language; • reduced protection for our intellectual property rights in some countries; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors; • difficulties in the handling of transactions denominated in foreign currency and the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations; • regulation by United States federal and state laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and foreign laws, regulations and policies; • changes in multiple tax and regulatory requirements; • the effect of longer sales cycles and collection periods or seasonal reductions in business activity; and • economic conditions in international markets. Any of these risks could reduce revenues from international locations or increase our cost of doing business outside of the United States. Contractual terms or issues that arise during the negotiation process may delay anticipated transactions and revenues. Because our software and solutions are often a critical element of the information technology systems of our customers, the process of contractual negotiation is often protracted. The additional time needed to negotiate mutually acceptable terms that culminate in an agreement to license our products can extend the sales cycle. Several factors may require us to defer recognition of license revenue for a significant period of time after entering into a license agreement, including instances in which we are required to deliver either specified additional products or product upgrades for which we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value. We have a standard software license agreement that provides for revenue recognition assuming that, among other factors, delivery has taken place, collectibility from the customer is probable and no significant future obligations or customer acceptance rights exist. However, customer negotiations and revisions to these terms could have an impact on our ability to recognize revenue at the time of delivery. 17 Table of Contents In addition, slowdowns or variances from our expectations of quarterly licensing activities may result in fewer customers, which could result in lower revenues from our software installation and integration, training, consulting services and customer support organizations. Our ability to maintain or increase support and service revenues is highly dependent on our ability to increase the number of enterprises that license our software products and the number of seats licensed by those enterprises. Increasing competition could cause us to reduce our prices and result in lower gross margins or loss of market share. The content management market is rapidly changing and highly competitive. Our current competitors include: • companies addressing needs of the market in which we compete such as EMC Corporation, IBM, Microsoft Corporation, Open Text Corporation, Oracle Corporation and Vignette Corporation; • intranet and groupware companies, such as IBM, Microsoft Corporation and Novell, Inc.; • open source vendors, such as OpenCms, Mambo and RedHat, Inc.; and • in-house development efforts by our customers and partners. We also face potential competition from our strategic partners, such as Microsoft Corporation and IBM, or from other companies that may in the future decide to compete in our market, including companies that currently only compete with us for sales to small- and medium-sized enterprises. Many existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Many of these companies can also take advantage of extensive customer bases and adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. Current and potential competitors may bundle their products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products or makes their products more appealing. Moreover, as we adapt our business model to target new markets or offer customers solutions that are different from the products we have traditionally offered, such as the subscription offerings we introduced following our acquisitions of Optimost in November 2007 and Discovery Mining in August 2008, the degree to which we face the competitive challenges described above may be higher than has traditionally been the case. To the extent potential customers value experience in addressing such markets or providing the kinds of new solutions we introduce, or such experience or other competitive advantages otherwise enable our competitors to sell and provide solutions more effectively than we can, the benefits we expect to derive from adapting our business model may be delayed or may not materialize. Barriers to entering the content management software market are relatively low. Competitive pressures may also increase with the consolidation of competitors within our market and partners in our distribution channel, such as the acquisition of Stellent, Inc. by Oracle Corporation; Captiva Software Corporation, Documentum, Inc. and RSA Security Inc. by EMC Corporation; Cognos, Inc. and FileNet, Inc. by IBM; Artesia Technologies, Inc. and Hummingbird, Ltd. by Open Text Corporation and TOWER Technology Pty Ltd. and Epicentric, Inc. by Vignette Corporation. With the intense competition in enterprise content management, some of our competitors, from time to time, have reduced their price proposals in an effort to strengthen their bids and expand their customer bases at our expense. Even if these tactics are unsuccessful, they could delay decisions by some customers who would otherwise purchase our software products and may reduce the ultimate selling price of our software and services, reducing our gross margins. Impairment charges related to our goodwill or long-lived assets could adversely affect our future operating results. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we accounted for our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting, which resulted in significant charges to our consolidated statement of income in prior periods and, through ongoing amortization, will continue to generate charges that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. We allocated the total estimated purchase price of these acquisitions to their net tangible assets and amortizable intangible assets as of the closing date of these transactions and recorded the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. In some 18 Table of Contents cases, a portion of the estimated purchase price may also be allocated to in-process technology and expensed in the quarter in which the acquisition was completed. We will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain net tangible and intangible assets acquired and significant stock-based compensation expense in connection with our acquisitions. These depreciation and amortization charges could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. At December 31, 2008, we had $236.5 million in goodwill and $28.1 million in other intangible assets, which we believe are recoverable. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America require that we review the value of goodwill and long-lived intangible assets on an annual basis or whenever events occur that may indicate impairment possibly exists. Goodwill is deemed to be impaired if the net book value of an intangible asset exceeds the estimated fair value. The impairment of a long-lived intangible asset other than goodwill is only deemed to have occurred if the sum of the forecasted undiscounted future cash flows related to the asset is less than the carrying value of the intangible asset we are testing for impairment. If the forecasted cash flows are less than the carrying value, then we must write down the carrying value to its estimated fair value. Our estimates of future cash flows included estimated growth rates and assumptions about the extent and duration of the current economic downturn. Goodwill impairment analysis and measurement is a process that requires significant judgment and the use of significant estimates related to valuation such as discount rates, long term growth rates and the level and timing of future cash flows. As a result, several factors could result in impairment of a material amount of our goodwill balance in future periods, including, but not limited to: 1. A decline in our stock price and resulting market capitalization, if we determine that the decline is sustained and is indicative of a reduction in the fair value of our goodwill below its carrying value. 2. Further weakening of the world-wide economy or failure to meet our internal forecasts could impact our ability to achieve our forecasted levels of cash flows and reduce the estimated fair value of our enterprise and resulting implied fair value of goodwill. It is not possible at this time to determine if any such future impairment charge would result from these factors, or, if it does, whether such charge would be material. We will continue to review our goodwill and other intangible assets for possible impairment. We cannot be certain that a future downturn in our business, changes in market conditions or a longer-term decline in the quoted market price of our stock will not result in an impairment of goodwill and the recognition of resulting expenses in future periods, which could adversely affect our results of operations for those periods. We also test our other long-lived intangible assets for impairment and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may be impaired. Failure to achieve our forecasted operating results, due to further weakness in the economic environment or other factors, could result in impairment of our long-lived intangible assets. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. In the past, we have acquired companies, products or technologies, such as our recently completed acquisitions of Optimost in November 2007 and Discovery Mining in August 2008, and we are likely to do so in the future. In the event that the proposed merger with Autonomy is not consummated, we intend to continue to acquire complementary companies, products, technologies and personnel. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of these or any other acquisition and each acquisition has numerous risks. These risks include: • difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; • difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products, and related business models, with our current products, technologies and business model; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; 19 Table of Contents • disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues; • difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; • inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business; • inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; • inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; • incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; • issuing common stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • using a substantial portion of our cash resources or incur debt; • potential impairment of our relationships with employees, customers, partners, distributors or third-party providers of technology or products; • potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture and development, integration obstacles or legal and financial contingencies, among other things; • incurring significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful; • incurring additional expenses if disputes arise in connection with any acquisition; • potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective; • potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; and • potential delay in customer and distributor purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings. Mergers and acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky and ultimately, if we do not complete the integration of acquired businesses successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisitions to the extent anticipated, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the terms of our acquisitions may provide for future obligations, such as our payment of additional consideration upon the occurrence of specified future events or the achievement of future revenues or other financial milestones. To the extent these events or achievements involve subjective determinations, disputes may arise that require a third party to assess, resolve and/or make such determinations, or involve arbitration or litigation. For example, several of our acquisitions have included earn-out arrangements that contain audit rights. Should a dispute arise over determinations made under those arrangements, we may be forced to incur additional costs and spend time defending our position, and may ultimately lose the dispute, any of these outcomes would cause us not to realize all the anticipated benefits of the related acquisition and could impact our consolidated results of operations. Our cash and investments are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2008, we had $138.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and $46.8 million in short-term investments. Our investments in mortgaged-backed securities totaled $16.4 million, all of which were issued by government-sponsored enterprises, including Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Bank. Our investments in asset-backed securities totaled $1.0 million. We have invested in highly-liquid United States government agency securities, corporate obligations, securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, commercial paper, certificates of deposit and money market funds according to our investment policies. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be heightened 20 Table of Contents as a result of recent turmoil in the financial and credit markets. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest bearing instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates. Additionally, if we sell short-term investment securities prior to maturity, we may suffer losses in principal to the extent these securities that have declined in market value. These market and interest rate risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material and adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our revenues depend on a small number of products and markets, so our results are vulnerable to shifts in demand. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, although we do not track our revenue by product, we believe that a significant portion of our total revenue was derived from our Interwoven TeamSite and Interwoven WorkSite products and related services, and we expect this to be the case in future periods. Accordingly, any decline in the demand for these products and related services will have a material and adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. We also derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of vertical markets. In particular, our WorkSite product is primarily sold to professional services organizations, such as law firms, accounting firms, consulting firms and corporate legal departments. In addition, we derive a portion of our revenues from companies in the financial services industry. In order to sustain and grow our business, we must continue to sell our software products and services into these vertical markets. Shifts in the dynamics of these vertical markets, such as new product introductions by our competitors, could seriously harm our prospects. Further, our reliance on a limited number of vertical markets exposes our operating results to the same macroeconomic risks and changing economic conditions that affect those vertical markets. For example, if the recent turbulence in the financial markets persists as we expect it will, our customers in the financial services industry may reduce spending, as we experienced with our customers in the global capital markets industry during 2008, and our results could suffer. To increase sales outside our core vertical markets, for example to large multi-national corporations in manufacturing, telecommunications and governmental entities, requires us to devote time and resources to hire and train sales employees familiar with those industries. Even if we are successful in hiring and training sales teams, customers in other industries may not need or sufficiently value our products. Our future revenues depend in part on our installed customer base continuing to license additional products, renew customer support agreements and purchase additional services. Our installed customer base has traditionally generated additional license and support and service revenues. In addition, the success of our strategic plan depends on our ability to cross-sell products to our installed base of customers, such as the products acquired in our recent acquisitions. Our ability to cross-sell new products may depend in part on the degree to which new products have been integrated with our existing applications, which may vary with the timing of new product acquisitions or releases. In future periods, customers may not necessarily license additional products or contract for additional support or other services. Customer support agreements are generally renewable annually at a customer’s option, and there are no mandatory payment obligations or obligations to license additional software. Customer support revenues are primarily influenced by the number and size of new support contracts sold in connection with software licenses and the renewal rate (both pricing and participation) of existing support contracts. If our customers decide to cancel their support agreements or fail to license additional products or contract for additional services, or if they reduce the scope of their support agreements, revenues could decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our future revenues may depend in part on how successful we are at addressing the needs of the markets we enter. Traditionally, our content management products have been technically complex and designed to appeal to the information technology professionals within large corporations, who we believe have the most significant impact on 21 Table of Contents whether or not our sales efforts are successful. As we adapt our business model to target new markets or offer customers solutions that are different from the products we have traditionally offered, such as the introduction of several of our segmentation and analytics offerings during 2007 and the subscription offerings introduced following our acquisitions of Optimost in November 2007 and Discovery Mining in August 2008, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to modify our sales efforts and product design to effectively address new markets and promote our new solutions. For example, with the introduction of the products and services mentioned above, our sales efforts have been increasingly focused on addressing the needs of marketing professionals, who we believe will have the most significant impact on whether or not our sales efforts with respect to those products and services will be successful. As marketing professionals value different kinds of product and service features and characteristics than information technology professionals, we must redesign our product and service offerings to appeal to marketing professionals to succeed in this market. The transition from focusing our sales efforts on information technology professionals to others, such as marketing professionals, will be difficult, and any success our sales teams have had selling to information technology professionals may not translate to their sales efforts with others. If we are unsuccessful in redesigning our products and services or making such transitions, our future revenue could be adversely affected, possibly causing our consolidated operating results to suffer and our stock price to decline. Because a significant portion of our revenues are influenced by referrals from strategic partners and, in some cases, sold through resellers, our future success depends in part on those partners, but their interests may differ from ours. Our direct sales force depends, in part, on strategic partnerships, marketing alliances and resellers to obtain customer leads, referrals and distribution. The percentage of our new license orders from customers that are influenced by or co-sold with our strategic partners and resellers was 65% for the year ended December 31, 2008. If we are unable to maintain our existing strategic relationships or fail to enter into additional strategic relationships, our ability to increase revenues will be harmed, and we could also lose anticipated customer introductions and co-marketing benefits and lose our investments in those relationships. In addition, revenues from any strategic partnership, no matter how significant we expect it to be, depend on a number of factors outside our control, are highly uncertain and may vary from period to period. Our success depends in part on the success of our strategic partners and their ability and willingness to market our products and services successfully. Losing the support of these third parties may limit our ability to compete in existing and potential markets. These third parties are under no obligation to recommend or support our software products and could recommend or give higher priority to the products and services of other companies, including those of one or more of our competitors, or to their own products. Our inability to gain the support of resellers, consulting and systems integrator firms or a shift by these companies toward favoring competing products could negatively affect our software license and support and service revenues. If the proposed merger is not consummated, our business may be adversely affected by the announcement of the proposed merger, as strategic partners may have reduced their business with us pending the closing of the merger or believe that we cannot effectively compete in the marketplace without the transaction. Some systems integrators also engage in joint marketing and sales efforts with us. If our relationships with these parties fail, we will have to devote substantially more resources to the sale and marketing of our software products. In many cases, these parties have extensive relationships with our existing and potential customers and influence the decisions of these customers. A number of our competitors have longer and more established relationships with these systems integrators than we do and, as a result, these systems integrators may be more inclined to recommend competitors’ products and services. We may also be unable to grow our revenues if we do not successfully obtain leads and referrals from our customers. If we are unable to maintain these existing customer relationships or fail to establish additional relationships of this kind, we will be required to devote substantially more resources to the sales and marketing of our products. As a result, we depend on the willingness of our customers to provide us with introductions, referrals and leads. Our current customer relationships do not afford us any exclusive marketing and distribution rights. In addition, our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time, pursue relationships with our competitors or develop or acquire products that compete with our products. Even if our customers act as references and provide us with leads and introductions, we may not grow our revenues or be able to maintain or reduce sales and marketing expenses. 22 Table of Contents We also rely on our strategic relationships to aid in the development of our products. Should our strategic partners not regard us as significant to their own businesses, they could reduce their commitment to us or terminate their relationship with us, pursue competing relationships or attempt to develop or acquire products or services that compete with our products and services. We must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful and competition for qualified personnel is increasing in our market. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued contributions of our key management, technical, sales, marketing and consulting personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of one or more of these employees could harm our business. We do not have key person life insurance for any of our key personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified technical, sales, marketing, consulting and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in our industry and in many of the geographies in which we operate. This makes it difficult to retain our key employees and to recruit highly qualified personnel. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications. To be successful, we need to hire candidates with appropriate qualifications and retain our key executives and employees. During the pendency of the proposed merger, our employees may experience uncertainty about their future role until or after strategies with regard to the combined company are announced or executed, or there may be employee uncertainty surrounding the future direction of our product and service offerings and strategy on a standalone basis. In addition, a portion of our employees have stock options with exercise prices in excess of the current value of the merger consideration or that will not be assumed in connection with the merger. These circumstances may adversely affect our ability to retain key management, technical, sales, marketing and consulting personnel. We also must continue to motivate our employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals, which may be particularly difficult due to the potential distractions of the proposed merger. Our failure to deliver defect-free software could result in losses and harmful publicity. Our software products are complex and have in the past and may in the future contain defects or failures that may be detected at any point in the product’s life. We have discovered software defects in the past in some of our products after their release. Although past defects have not had a material effect on our results of operations, in the future we may experience delays or lost revenues caused by new defects. Despite our testing, defects and errors may still be found in new or existing products, and may result in delayed or lost revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, reduced customer satisfaction, diversion of development resources and damage to our reputation. As has occurred in the past, new releases of products or product enhancements may require us to provide additional services under our support contracts to ensure proper installation and implementation. Errors in our application suite may be caused by defects in third-party software incorporated into our applications. If so, we may not be able to fix these defects without the cooperation of these software providers. Since these defects may not be as significant to our software providers as they are to us, we may not receive the rapid cooperation that we may require. We may not have the contractual right to access the source code of third-party software and, even if we access the source code, we may not be able to fix the defect. As customers rely on our products for critical business applications, errors, defects or other performance problems of our products or services might result in damage to the businesses of our customers. Consequently, these customers could delay or withhold payment to us for our software and services, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts or an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, both of which could disappoint investors and result in a significant decline in our stock price. In addition, these customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, a product liability claim brought against us would likely be time consuming and costly and harm our reputation, and thus our ability to license products to new customers. Even if a suit is not brought, correcting errors in our application suite could increase our expenses. 23 Table of Contents If our products cannot scale to meet the demands of thousands of concurrent users, our targeted customers may not license our software, which will cause our revenues to decline. Our strategy includes targeting large organizations that require our enterprise content management software because of the significant amounts of content that these companies generate and use. For this strategy to succeed, our software products must be highly scalable and accommodate thousands of concurrent users. If our products cannot scale to accommodate a large number of concurrent users, our target markets will not accept our products and our business and operating results will suffer. If our customers cannot successfully implement large-scale deployments of our software or if they determine that our products cannot accommodate large-scale deployments, our customers will not license our solutions and this will materially adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and operating results. If our products do not operate with a wide variety of hardware, software and operating systems used by our customers, our revenues would be harmed. We currently serve a customer base that uses a wide variety of constantly changing hardware, software applications and operating systems. For example, we have designed our products to work with databases and servers developed by, among others, Microsoft Corporation, Sun Microsystems, Inc., Sybase, Inc., Oracle Corporation and IBM and with common enterprise software applications, such as Microsoft Office, WordPerfect, Lotus Notes and Novell GroupWise. We must continually modify and enhance our software products to keep pace with changes in computer hardware and software and database technology as well as emerging technical standards in the software industry. We further believe that our application suite will gain broad market acceptance only if it can support a wide variety of hardware, software applications and systems. If our products were unable to support a variety of these products, our business would be harmed. Additionally, customers could delay purchases of our software until they determine how our products will operate with these updated platforms or applications. Our products currently operate on various Microsoft Windows platforms, Linux, IBM AIX, IBM zLinux, Hewlett Packard UX and Sun Solaris operating environments. If other platforms become more widely used, we could be required to convert our server application products to additional platforms. We may not succeed in these efforts, and even if we do, potential customers may not choose to license our products. In addition, our products are required to interoperate with leading content authoring tools and application servers. We must continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in these applications and operating systems. If our products were to be incompatible with a popular new operating system or business application, our business could be harmed. Also, uncertainties related to the timing and nature of new product announcements, introductions or modifications by vendors of operating systems, browsers, back-office applications and other technology-related applications, could harm our business. Our products may lack essential functionality if we are unable to obtain and maintain licenses to third-party software and applications. We rely on software that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with our internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. The functionality of our software products, therefore, depends on our ability to integrate these third-party technologies into our products. Furthermore, we may license additional software from third parties in the future to add functionality to our products. If our efforts to integrate this third-party software into our products are not successful, our customers may not license our products and our business will suffer. In addition, we would be seriously harmed if the providers from whom we license software fail to continue to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products or respond to emerging industry standards. Moreover, the third-party software may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Each of these license agreements may be renewed only with the other party’s written consent. The loss of, or inability to maintain or obtain licensed software, could result in shipment delays or reductions. Furthermore, we may be forced to limit the features available in our current or future product offerings. Either alternative could seriously harm our business and operating results. 24 Table of Contents Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses to offset future taxable income. Our existing net operating losses and credits may be subject to limitations arising from previous and future ownership changes under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Net operating losses and credits related to companies that we have acquired or may acquire in the future may be subject to similar limitations or may be limited by the information we have retained following such acquisitions. In addition, the California 2008-2009 Budget Bill (AB 1452), enacted on September 30, 2008 also suspends the use of net operating loss carryovers for our calendar years 2008 and 2009. For these reasons, we may not be able to fully utilize a portion of the net operating losses and tax credits disclosed in our consolidated financial statements to offset future income. This may result in a substantial increase to income tax expense in future periods. Difficulties in introducing new products and product upgrades and integrating new products with our existing products in a timely manner will make market acceptance of our products less likely. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and technology-related enhancements, uncertain product life cycles, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. We expect to add new functionality to our product offerings by internal development and possibly by acquisition. Content management and document management technology is more complex than most software and new products or product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. Any delays in developing and releasing new products or integrating new products with existing products could harm our business. New products or upgrades may not be released according to schedule, may not be adequately integrated with existing products or may contain defects when released, resulting in adverse publicity, loss of sales, delay in market acceptance of our products or customer claims against us, any of which could harm our business. If we do not develop, license or acquire new software products, adequately integrate them with existing products or deliver enhancements to existing products, on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business will be harmed. We might not be able to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, a loss of which could harm our business. We depend upon our proprietary technology and rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions to protect it. These protections may not be adequate. Also, it is possible that patents will not be issued from our currently pending applications or any future patent application we may file. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as effectively as the laws of the United States and we expect that it will become more difficult to monitor use of our products as we increase our international presence. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such resulting litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Further, third parties have claimed and may claim in the future that our products infringe the intellectual property of their products. Additionally, our license agreements require that we indemnify our customers for infringement claims made by third parties involving our intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation is inherently uncertain and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, could be costly and time-consuming to defend or settle, cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, require us to redesign or reengineer such products, if feasible, divert management’s attention or resources, or cause product delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process; any of which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 