ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This annual report on Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference herein contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “will,” “might,” “would,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “would,” “could,” “should,” “believe,” “intend,” “project,” “forecast,” “target,” “plan,” or “continue” or the negative of these words or other variations or comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, trends and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Some specific risk factors that could impair forward looking statements are set forth below. These risks factors are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may affect our business. Investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K for future periods for updates to these risk factors. The current economic environment may make it difficult to lease vacant space or cause space to be vacated in the future. Our goal is to improve the performance of our properties by re-leasing vacated space. While economic conditions in many of our markets have improved, macro-economic challenges, such as volatile consumer confidence, high unemployment and reduced consumer spending, have adversely affected many retailers and continue to adversely affect the retail sales of many regional and local tenants in some of our markets. While most of our centers are anchored by supermarkets, drug stores or other necessity-oriented retailers, which are less susceptible to economic cycles, other tenants in our centers, particularly smaller shop tenants (those occupying less than 10,000 square feet), have been particularly vulnerable as they have faced both declining sales and reduced access to capital. As a result, some tenants have requested rent adjustments and abatements, while other tenants have not been able to continue in business at all. Our ability to continue to lease or re-lease vacant space in our properties will be affected by these and other factors, including our properties’ locations, current market conditions and covenants and restrictions found in certain leases at our properties that may limit our ability to lease to certain types of tenants. If these economic conditions persist or worsen in 2012, our properties and results of operations could be adversely affected with lower occupancy and higher bad debt expense as tenants fail to pay rent, close their stores or file bankruptcy. Moreover, because many retailers have slowed their growth plans as a result of the prevailing economic climate or their lack of access to capital, demand for retail space has declined, generally, reducing the market rental rates for our properties. Several national retailers have indicated that they will require reduced store sizes in the future as they adjust their square footage needs based on sales volumes and alternative sales channels including internet sales. Shorter term expirations of our shop tenants may lead to increased vacancies and reduced rental income which would have an adverse effect on our future results of operations. From 2012 through 2014, approximately 50.3% of our leases, based on annualized minimum rents, with small shop tenants are due to expire. The annualized minimum rents at expiration for these leases are $19.1 million, $17.0 million, and $16.8 million for 2012-2014, respectively. Additionally, approximately 5.1% of our leases with small shop tenants are month-to-month, representing $5.3 million of annualized rents. Our ability to renew or replace these tenants at comparable rents could have a significant impact on our future results of operations. We may not be able to re-lease vacated space and, if we are able to re-lease vacated space, there is no assurance that rental rates will be equal to or in excess of current rental rates. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in obtaining new tenants, including brokerage commissions paid by us in connection with new leases or lease renewals, and the cost of making leasehold improvements. All of these events and factors could adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent upon certain key tenants, and decisions made by these tenants or adverse developments in the business of these tenants could have a negative impact on our financial condition. We own shopping centers which are supported by “anchor” tenants which, due to size, reputation or other factors, are particularly responsible for drawing other tenants and shoppers to our centers. For instance, Publix Super Markets is our largest tenant and accounted for approximately 1.8 million square feet, or approximately 10.6% of our gross leasable area, at December 31, 2011, and approximately $14.5 million, or 6.9%, of our annual minimum rent in 2011. No other tenant accounted for over 5% of our annual minimum rent. 7 Table of Contents In addition, an anchor tenant may decide that a particular store is unprofitable and close its operations in our center, and, while the tenant may continue to make rental payments, such a failure to occupy its premises could have an adverse effect on the property. A lease termination by an anchor tenant or a failure by that anchor tenant to occupy the premises could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping center if their leases have “co-tenancy” clauses which permit cancellation or rent reduction if an anchor tenant’s lease is terminated or the anchor “goes dark.” Vacated anchor tenant space also tends to adversely affect the entire shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant’s power to draw customers to the center. We cannot provide any assurance that we would be able to quickly re-lease vacant space on favorable terms, if at all. Any of these developments could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Declarations of bankruptcy by national or regional tenants may have an adverse effect on our operations as those tenants may close multiple locations within our portfolio. Certain segments of the retail environment remain weak, particularly those relating to home sales, discretionary spending, books, music and video stores. Some of our anchor or other small shop tenants may continue to experience a downturn in their businesses that may weaken their financial condition. As a result, tenants may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due or declare bankruptcy. In 2010 and 2011, several of our national tenants filed for bankruptcy protection. We are subject to the risk that these tenants may be unable to make their lease payments, may refuse to extend leases upon expiration or may reject leases in bankruptcy. Tenant bankruptcies, leasing delays or failures to make rental payments when due could result in the termination of the tenant’s lease and material losses to our business and harm to our operating results. Volatility in the credit markets may affect our ability to obtain or re-finance our indebtedness at a reasonable cost. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $352.3 million of senior notes and mortgage debt scheduled to mature in the next three years. Additionally, our $575.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility matures on September 30, 2015 with a one year extension at our option. If credit conditions worsen or if interest rates increase from their current historically low levels, we may experience difficulty refinancing these upcoming loan maturities at a reasonable cost or with desired financing alternatives. For example, it may be hard to raise new unsecured financing in the form of additional bank debt or corporate bonds at interest rates that are appropriate for our long term objectives. If we draw under our existing unsecured revolving line of credit to repay maturing debt, our ability to use the line for other uses such as investments will be reduced. If we increase our reliance on mortgage debt, the credit rating agencies that rate our unsecured corporate debt may reduce our investment-grade credit ratings. Alternatively, we may need to repay maturing debt with proceeds from the issuance of equity or the sale of assets. In addition, lenders may impose more restrictive covenants, events of default and other conditions. We have substantial debt obligations which may reduce our operating performance and put us at a competitive disadvantage. As of December 31, 2011, we had debt and other liabilities outstanding in the aggregate amount of approximately $1.6 billion. Many of our loans require scheduled principal amortization. In addition, our organizational documents do not limit the level or amount of debt that we may incur, nor do we have a policy limiting our debt to any particular level. The amount of our debt outstanding from time to time could have important consequences to our stockholders. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, property acquisitions, developments and redevelopments and other appropriate business opportunities that may arise in the future; • limit our ability to make distributions on our outstanding shares of our common stock, including the payment of dividends required to maintain our status as a REIT; • make it difficult to satisfy our debt service requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the factors that affect the profitability of our business, which may place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt or debt with less restrictive terms; • adversely affect financial ratios and debt and operational coverage levels monitored by rating agencies and adversely affect the ratings assigned to our unsecured debt; 8 Table of Contents • limit our ability to obtain any additional debt or equity financing we may need in the future for working capital, debt refinancing, capital expenditures, acquisitions, redevelopment or other general corporate purposes or to obtain such financing on favorable terms; and • require us to dedicate increased amounts of our cash flow from operations to payments on our variable rate, unhedged debt if interest rates rise. If our internally generated cash is inadequate to repay our indebtedness upon maturity, then we will be required to repay debt through refinancing or equity offerings. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, potentially upon disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses and might adversely affect our cash available for distribution. If prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates on refinancing, our interest expense would increase which may not be offset by a corresponding increase in our rental rates, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Further, if one of our properties is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, or if we are in default under the related mortgage or deed of trust, such property could be transferred to the mortgagee, or the mortgagee could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of income and asset value. Foreclosure could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements under the Code. Our financial covenants may restrict our operating or acquisition activities, which may harm our financial condition and operating results. Our unsecured revolving credit facility, our unsecured term loan facility, our outstanding senior unsecured notes and much of our existing mortgage indebtedness contain customary covenants and conditions, including, among others, compliance with various financial ratios and restrictions upon the incurrence of additional indebtedness and liens on our properties. Furthermore, the terms of some of this indebtedness will restrict our ability to consummate transactions that result in a change of control or to otherwise issue equity or debt securities. The existing mortgages also contain customary negative covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. If we were to breach covenants in these debt agreements, the lender could declare a default and require us to repay the debt immediately. If we fail to make such repayment in a timely manner, the lender may be entitled to take possession of any property securing the loan. If the lenders declared a default under our unsecured revolving credit facility, all amounts outstanding would become due and payable and our ability to borrow in future periods could be restricted. In addition, any such default would constitute a cross default under our senior note indebtedness and unsecured term loan giving rise to the acceleration of such indebtedness. Increases in interest rates would cause our borrowing costs to rise and generally adversely affect the market price of our securities. While we had approximately $1.2 billion of fixed interest rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2011, we do borrow funds at variable interest rates under our lines of credit and could borrow under other variable facilities in the future. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense on any variable rate debt, as well as maturing fixed rate debt that must be refinanced at higher interest rates. This would reduce our future earnings and cash flows, which could adversely affect our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations and also could reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our stockholders. In addition, long-term increases in interest rates will affect the terms under which we refinance our existing debt as it matures, thereby adversely affecting results of operations. In addition, the market price of our common stock is affected by the annual distribution rate on the shares of our common stock. An increase in market interest rates relative to our annual dividend rate may lead prospective purchasers of our common stock and other securities to seek alternative investments that offer a higher annual yield which would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock and other securities. Finally, increases in interest rates may have the effect of depressing the market value of retail properties such as ours, including the value of those properties securing our indebtedness. Such declines in the market value of our properties would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock and other securities. Geographic concentration of our properties makes our business vulnerable to economic downturns in certain regions or to other events, like hurricanes and earthquakes, that disproportionately affect those areas. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 47.6% and 11.7% of our retail property gross leasable area was located in Florida and California, respectively. As a result, economic, real estate and other general conditions in these states will significantly affect our revenues and the value of our properties. Business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, declines in real estate values, reduced migration to Florida, changing demographics, increases in insurance costs and real estate taxes and other factors may adversely affect the economic climate in Florida and California. Any resulting reduction in demand for retail properties in Florida or California would adversely affect our operating performance and limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders. 9 Table of Contents In addition, a significant portion of our retail property gross leasable area is located in coastal or other areas that are susceptible to the harmful effects of tropical storms, hurricanes, earthquakes and other similar natural disasters. As of December 31, 2011, over 45% of the total insured value of our portfolio is located in the State of Florida. Intense hurricanes and tropical storm activity during the last decade has caused our cost of property insurance to increase significantly. While much of the cost of this insurance is passed on to our tenants as reimbursable property costs, some tenants, particularly national tenants, do not pay a pro rata share of these costs under their leases. Hurricanes and similar storms also disrupt our business and the business of our tenants, which could affect the ability of some tenants to pay rent and may reduce the willingness of residents to remain in or move to the affected area. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, over 25% of the total insured value of our portfolio is located in the State of California, including a number of assets in the San Francisco Bay and Los Angeles areas. These properties may be subject to the risk that an earthquake or other, similar peril would affect the operations of these properties. We currently do not have comprehensive insurance covering losses from these perils. Therefore, if an earthquake did occur and our properties were affected, we would bear the losses resulting therefrom. Therefore, as a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, we face demonstrable risks, including higher costs, such as uninsured property losses and higher insurance premiums, and disruptions to our business and the businesses of our tenants. Our insurance coverage on our properties may be inadequate therefore increasing the risks to our business. We currently carry comprehensive insurance on all of our properties, including insurance for liability, fire, flood, rental loss and acts of terrorism; however, we currently do not carry coverage for losses from earthquakes or other, similar perils. We also currently carry environmental insurance on all of our properties. All of these policies contain coverage limitations. We believe these coverages are of the types and amounts customarily obtained for or by an owner of similar types of real property assets located in the areas where our properties are located. We intend to obtain similar insurance coverage on subsequently acquired properties. The availability of insurance coverage may decrease and the prices for insurance may increase as a consequence of significant losses incurred by the insurance industry. For instance, given the issues facing financial firms in general, including insurance companies, and following the hurricane, earthquake and other property loss activity in recent years, property insurance costs across our portfolio have increased. In the event of future industry losses, we may be unable to renew or duplicate our current insurance coverage in amounts we deem adequate or at reasonable prices. In addition, insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses from named wind storms, earthquakes or due to terrorist acts and toxic mold, or, if offered, the cost of obtaining these types of insurance may not be commercially justified. We, therefore, may cease to have insurance coverage against certain types of losses and/or there may be decreases in the covered loss limits of insurance available. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, but still remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot guarantee that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. If any of our properties were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. Also, due to inflation, changes in codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, it may not be feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a building after it has been damaged or destroyed or the proceeds could be insufficient. Events such as these could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations, including distributions to our stockholders. We may be unable to sell properties in accordance with our business plan which could reduce our available capital or require us to hold non-core assets longer than we deem desirable. In general, we intend to sell certain assets over time as part of our capital recycling efforts and as assets no longer meet our investment criteria. However, real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. Also, there are limitations under federal income tax laws applicable to real estate and to REITs in particular that may limit our ability to sell our assets. We may not be able to alter our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Our inability to respond quickly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our stockholders. 10 Table of Contents Our assets may be subject to impairment charges. Our long-lived assets, including real estate held for investment, are carried at net book value unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Our properties are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the property may not be recoverable. When assets are identified as held for sale, we estimate the sales prices, net of selling costs, of such assets. Assets that will be sold together in a single transaction are aggregated in determining if the net sales proceeds of the group are expected to be less than the net book value of the assets. If, in our opinion, the net sales prices of the assets which have been identified for sale are expected to be less than the net book value of the assets, an impairment charge is recorded and we write down the asset to fair value. An impairment charge may also be recorded for any asset if it is probable, in our estimation, that the aggregate future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) to be generated by the property are less than the carrying value of the property. In addition, we may be required to test for impairment when we perform periodic valuations of our properties in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards under our agreement with our largest stockholder, Gazit-Globe, Ltd. We also perform an annual test of our goodwill for impairment and perform periodic evaluations for impairment of our investments in unconsolidated entities such as joint ventures. Recording an impairment charge results in an immediate reduction in our income and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in the period in which the charge is taken. Our development and redevelopment activities are inherently risky and may not yield anticipated returns, which would harm our operating results and reduce funds available for distributions to stockholders. An important component of our growth strategy is the redevelopment of properties within our portfolio and the development of new shopping centers, including The Gallery at Westbury Plaza in Nassau County, New York. At December 31, 2011, we had invested an aggregate of approximately $82.2 million in these development or redevelopment projects at various stages of completion and based on our current plans and estimates we anticipate that these projects will require an additional $100.7 million to complete, including $71.8 million to complete The Gallery at Westbury Plaza. In addition to these costs, we may in the future expend substantial amounts in connection with a redevelopment of Serramonte Shopping Center located in Daly City, California, and other development and redevelopment opportunities we identify. These developments and redevelopments may not be as successful as currently expected. Expansion, renovation and development projects entail the following considerable risks: • significant time lag between commencement and completion subjects us to greater risks due to fluctuations in the general economy; • failure or inability to obtain construction or permanent financing on favorable terms; • expenditure of money and time on projects that may never be completed; • inability to achieve projected rental rates or anticipated pace of lease-up; • higher-than-estimated construction costs, including labor and material costs; and • possible delay in completion of the project because of a number of factors, including weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receipt of zoning or other regulatory approvals, or man-made or natural disasters (such as fires, hurricanes, earthquakes or floods). While our policies with respect to expansion, renovation and development activities are intended to limit some of the risks otherwise associated with such activities, such as initiating construction only after securing commitments from anchor tenants, we will nevertheless be subject to risks that the construction costs of a property, due to factors such as cost overruns, design changes and timing delays arising from a lack of availability of materials and labor, weather conditions and other factors outside of our control, as well as financing costs, may exceed original estimates, possibly making the associated investment unprofitable. Significant changes in economic conditions could adversely affect prospective tenants and our ability to lease newly developed and redeveloped properties. Any substantial unanticipated delays or expenses could adversely affect the investment returns from these redevelopment projects and harm our operating results. 11 Table of Contents Future acquisitions may not yield the returns expected, may result in disruptions to our business, may strain management resources and may result in stockholder dilution. Our investing strategy and our market selection process may not ultimately be successful and may not provide positive returns on our investment. The acquisition of properties or portfolios of properties entails risks that include the following, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations: • we may not be able to identify suitable properties to acquire or may be unable to complete the acquisition of the properties we identify, even after making a non refundable deposit or incurring significant acquisition related costs; • we may not be able to integrate any acquisitions into our existing operations successfully; • properties we acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project at the time we make the decision to acquire, which may result in the properties’ failure to achieve the returns we projected; • our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs; and • our investigation of a property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representations we may receive from the seller of such building or property, may fail to reveal various liabilities (such as to tenants or vendors or with respect to environmental contamination), which could reduce the cash flow from the property or increase our acquisition cost. If we acquire a business, we will be required to integrate the operations, personnel and accounting and information systems of the acquired business and train, retain and motivate any key personnel from the acquired business. In addition, acquisitions of or investments in companies may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention away from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with our current tenants and employees. The issuance of equity or debt securities in connection with any acquisition or investment could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. Our ability to grow will be limited if we cannot obtain additional capital. Our growth strategy is focused on the redevelopment of properties we already own and the acquisition and development of additional properties. We believe that it will be difficult to fund our expected growth with cash from operating activities because, in addition to other requirements, we are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (excluding net capital gains) each year to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. As a result, we must rely primarily upon the availability of debt or equity capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. The debt could include mortgage loans from third parties or the sale of debt securities. Equity capital could include shares of our common stock or preferred stock. We cannot guarantee that additional financing, refinancing or other capital will be available in the amounts we desire or on favorable terms. Our access to debt or equity capital depends on a number of factors, including the general availability of credit in the capital markets, the market’s perception of our growth potential, our ability to pay dividends, our financial condition, our credit rating and our current and potential future earnings. Depending on the outcome of these factors, we could experience delay or difficulty in implementing our growth strategy on satisfactory terms, or we may be unable to implement this strategy at all. See the Risk Factor entitled “Volatility in the credit markets may affect our ability to obtain or re-finance our indebtedness at a reasonable cost.” Property ownership through joint ventures could limit our control of those investments and reduce our expected returns. We have invested in some cases as a partner or co-venturer in properties. Real estate partnership or joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for investments made solely by us, including the possibility that our partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt, that our partners or co-venturers might at any time have different interests or goals than we do, that our partners or co-venturers might fail to provide capital and fulfill their obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, and that our partners or co-venturers may take actions or fail to take actions contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives. Other risks of joint venture investments could include an impasse on decisions, such as sales of the ventures or their properties, because neither our partners or co-venturers nor we would have full control over the involved partnerships or joint ventures. In other cases, our partners or co-venturers may have the power to cause the involved partnership or joint venture to take or refrain from taking actions contrary to our desires. In addition, our lenders may not be easily able to sell our joint venture assets and investments or view them less favorably as collateral, which could negatively affect our liquidity and capital resources. These factors could limit the return that we receive from those investments or cause our cash flows to be lower than our estimates. 12 Table of Contents Our activity level places significant demands on our operational, administrative and financial resources. We continue to pursue extensive capital recycling and growth opportunities through a combination of acquisitions, dispositions and joint venture opportunities, some of which have complicated structures. This activity level and complexity places significant demands on our operational, administrative and financial resources. Our future performance will depend in part on our ability to successfully identify, attract and retain qualified personnel to support and manage the transformation, growth and complexity of our business, including successfully integrating new acquisitions into our operating platform. Obtaining sufficient personnel and other resources may increase our expenses, including general and administrative expense. In the event we have insufficient resources to support the growth and complexity in our business, we may fail to properly structure or account for the financial or tax aspects of our transactions or satisfy obligations owed to transaction counterparties, thereby impacting our qualification as a REIT or our financial results. Competition for the acquisition of assets and the leasing of properties may adversely impact our future operating performance, our growth plans, and stockholder returns. Numerous commercial developers and real estate companies compete with us in seeking tenants for our existing properties and properties for acquisition, particularly in our target markets. This competition may affect us in various ways, including: • reducing properties available for acquisition; • increasing the cost of properties we acquire; • reducing the rate of return on these properties; • reducing rents payable to us; • interfering with our ability to attract and retain tenants; • increasing vacancy rates at our properties; and • adversely affecting our ability to minimize expenses of operation. In addition, tenants and potential acquisition targets may find competitors to be more attractive because they may have greater resources, broader geographic diversity, may be willing to pay more or offer greater lease incentives or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In particular, larger REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. These competitive factors may adversely affect our profitability, and our stockholders may experience a lower return on their investment. We may be subjected to liability for environmental contamination which might have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As an owner and operator of real estate and real estate-related facilities, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances present at, on, under, in or released from our properties, as well as for governmental fines and damages for injuries to persons and property. We may be liable without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the environmental contamination and with respect to properties we have acquired, whether the contamination occurred before or after the acquisition. We have several properties in our portfolio that will require or are currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation. The presence of contamination or the failure to properly remediate contamination at any of our properties may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease those properties or to borrow funds by using those properties as collateral. The costs or liabilities could exceed the value of the affected real estate. Although we have environmental insurance policies covering most of our properties, there is no assurance that these policies will cover any or all of the potential losses or damages from environmental contamination; therefore, any liability, fine or damage could directly impact our financial results. We may experience adverse consequences in the event we fail to qualify as a REIT. Although we believe that we are organized and have operated so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code since our REIT election in 1995, no assurance can be given that we have qualified or will remain so qualified. In addition, no assurance can be given that new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are often only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. These provisions include requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding common stock, the nature of our assets, the nature and sources of our income, and the 13 Table of Contents amount of our distributions to our stockholders. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources. Satisfying this requirement could be difficult, for example, if defaults by tenants were to reduce the amount of income from qualifying rents or if the structure of one of our joint ventures or other investments fails to yield qualifying income. In addition, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains. Under a revenue procedure issued by the Internal Revenue Service, REITs, subject to certain limitations, are permitted to pay the distributions required to qualify as a REIT under the Code in predominantly their own stock, rather than all cash, provided the distributions are declared on or after January 1, 2008 and on or before December 31, 2012, with respect to a taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2011. To the extent we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions (or deemed distributions) in any year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income for that year, 95% of our capital gain net earnings for that year and 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the distribution provisions of the Code. Although we anticipate that our cash flows from operating activities and our ability to borrow under our existing credit facilities will enable us to pay our operating expenses and meet distribution requirements, no assurance can be given in this regard. We may be required to sell assets to distribute enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax. In addition, the federal income tax provisions applicable to REITs provide that any gain realized by a REIT on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a “prohibited transaction” that is subject to a 100% penalty tax. Under current law, unless a sale of real property qualifies for a safe harbor, the question of whether the sale of a property constitutes the sale of property held primarily for sale to customers is generally a question of the facts and circumstances regarding a particular transaction. We intend to hold our properties for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning properties and to make occasional sales as are consistent with our investment objectives. Although we do not intend to engage in prohibited transactions, it is possible that our dispositions may not qualify for safe harbor treatment. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will only make sales that satisfy the requirements of the safe harbors or that the IRS will not successfully assert that one or more of our sales are prohibited transactions. In addition, the sale of our properties may generate gains for tax purposes which, if not adequately sheltered through “like kind exchanges” under Section 1031 of the Code, could require us to make additional distributions to our stockholders, thus reducing our capital available for investment in other properties, or if the proceeds of such sales are already invested in other properties, require us to obtain additional funds to make such distributions, in either such case to permit us to maintain our status as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing taxable income, and therefore our taxable income or alternative minimum taxable income so computed would be fully subject to the regular federal income tax or the federal alternative minimum tax; • unless we are entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT again for the four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified; • we could be required to pay significant income taxes, which would substantially reduce the funds available for investment or for distribution to our stockholders for each year in which we failed or were not permitted to qualify; and • the tax laws would no longer require us to pay any distributions to our stockholders. We are subject to other tax liabilities. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we are subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income and property that could reduce operating cash flow. For example, we will pay tax on certain types of income that are not distributed, and will be subject to a 100% excise tax on transactions with a TRS that are not conducted on an arms-length basis. In addition, our TRSs are subject to foreign, federal, state and local taxes. Our mezzanine debt investments involve a greater risk of loss than investments in conventional mortgage debt. We hold a small number of investments in mezzanine indebtedness issued by owners of real estate and their affiliates. Mezzanine debt investments involve a higher degree of risk than investments in conventional mortgage debt due to a variety of factors, including that such investments are subordinate to mortgage financing and are not directly secured by the property 14 Table of Contents underlying the investment. Should the borrower default on our mezzanine loan, we would only be able to proceed against the entity which issued the mezzanine loan, and not the property underlying our investment or the owner thereof. Such collection efforts may entail costly negotiations or litigation with the borrower, the senior mortgage lender or both. Furthermore, in the event of default by the borrower under the mortgage loan, we may need to make cure payments to the mortgage lender in order to protect our rights and investment. In these cases, the total amount we recover may be less than our total investment, resulting in a loss. Our Chairman of the Board and his affiliates are beneficial owners of approximately 47.2% of our common stock and exercise significant control over our company and may delay, defer or prevent us from taking actions that would be beneficial to our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, Chaim Katzman, the chairman of our board of directors and our largest stockholder, and his affiliates beneficially owned approximately 47.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and, as a result of a stockholders’ agreement with other of our stockholders, have voting power over approximately 50.8% of our outstanding shares with respect to the election of directors. Accordingly, Mr. Katzman is able to exercise significant influence over the outcome of substantially all matters required to be submitted to our stockholders for approval, including decisions relating to the election of our board of directors and the determination of our day-to-day corporate and management policies. In addition, Mr. Katzman is able to exercise significant influence over the outcome of any proposed merger or consolidation of our company which, under our charter, requires the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Mr. Katzman’s ownership interest in our company may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire control of our company which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. To maintain our status as a REIT, we limit the amount of shares any one stockholder can own. The Code imposes certain limitations on the ownership of the stock of a REIT. For example, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code). To protect our REIT status, our charter provides that, subject to certain exceptions, no person may own, or be deemed to own, directly and by virtue of the constructive ownership provisions of the Code, more than 9.9% (or 5.0% in the case of an “individual”) in value of the aggregate outstanding shares of our capital stock or more than 9.9% (or 5.0% in the case of an “individual”), in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. The constructive ownership rules are complex. Shares of our capital stock owned, actually or constructively, by a group of related individuals and/or entities may be treated as constructively owned by one of those individuals or entities. As a result, the acquisition of less than 5.0% or 9.9%, as applicable, in value of the outstanding common stock and/or a class or series of preferred stock (or the acquisition of an interest in an entity that owns common stock or preferred stock) by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity (or another) to own constructively more than 5.0% or 9.9%, as applicable, in value of the outstanding stock. If that happened, either the transfer or ownership would be void or the shares would be transferred to a charitable trust and then sold to someone who can own those shares without violating the 5.0% or 9.9% ownership limit, as applicable. Our board of directors may waive the REIT ownership restrictions on a case-by-case basis, and it has in the past done so, including for Chaim Katzman, our chairman of the board, and his affiliates, and for Liberty International Holdings Limited (“LIH”) and its affiliates. Our charter also provides that, subject to certain exceptions, a foreign person may not acquire, beneficially or constructively, any shares of our capital stock, if immediately following the acquisition of such shares, the fair market value of the shares of our capital stock owned, directly and indirectly, by all foreign persons (other than LIH and its affiliates) would comprise 29% or more of the fair market value of the issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock. This 29% limit is intended to ensure that CapCo, one of our subsidiaries, will qualify as a “domestically controlled” REIT. The foregoing ownership restrictions may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the stockholders’ best interest. We cannot assure you we will continue to pay dividends at current rates. Our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common stock at current rates or to increase our common stock dividend rate will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following: • our financial condition and results of future operations; • the ability of our tenants to perform in accordance with the lease terms; • the terms of our loan covenants; and • our ability to acquire, finance, develop or redevelop and lease additional properties at attractive rates. 15 Table of Contents If we do not maintain or increase the dividend rate on our common stock, there could be an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Conversely, the payment of dividends on our common stock may be subject to payment in full of the interest on debt we may owe. Under a revenue procedure issued by the Internal Revenue Service, REITs, subject to certain limitations, are permitted to pay the distributions required to qualify as a REIT under the Code in predominantly their own stock, rather than all cash, provided the distributions are declared on or after January 1, 2008 and on or before December 31, 2012, with respect to a taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2011. To date, we have paid all of our dividends solely in cash. If we were to pay a portion of our dividends in stock, there could be an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Our organizational documents contain provisions which may discourage the takeover of our company, may make removal of our management more difficult and may depress our stock price. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect and inhibit a change in our management. As a result, these provisions could prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares of common stock above the prevailing market prices. These provisions include: • the REIT and foreign ownership limits described above; • the ability to issue preferred stock with the powers, preferences or rights determined by our board of directors; • special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, the president or by the board of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals; • the absence of cumulative voting rights; and • provisions relating to the removal of incumbent directors. Finally, Maryland law also contains several statutes that restrict mergers and other business combinations with an interested stockholder or that may otherwise have the effect of preventing or delaying a change of control. Changes in taxation of corporate dividends may adversely affect the value of our common stock. The maximum marginal rate of tax payable by a domestic non-corporate taxpayer on a dividend received from a regular “C” corporation in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2013 is 15%, as opposed to the marginal tax rates of up to 35% that apply to ordinary income. The reduced tax rate, however, does not apply to dividends paid to domestic non-corporate taxpayers by a REIT, except for certain limited amounts. Although the distributed earnings of a REIT are generally subject to less total federal income tax than are the distributed earnings of a non-REIT “C” corporation which are distributed to stockholders net of corporate-level income tax, domestic non-corporate investors could view the stock of regular “C” corporations as more attractive relative to the stock of a REIT because the dividends from regular “C” corporations are taxed at a lower stated tax rate while distributions from REITs (other than distributions designated as capital gain dividends or returns of capital or the limited amounts of dividends that qualify for the 15% rate) are generally taxed at the same rate as the individual’s other ordinary income. Foreign stockholders may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain recognized on a disposition of our common stock if we do not qualify as a “domestically controlled” REIT. A foreign person disposing of a U.S. real property interest, including shares of a U.S. corporation whose assets consist principally of U.S. real property interests is generally subject to U.S. federal income tax on any gain recognized on the disposition. This tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a REIT if the REIT is “domestically controlled.” In general, we will be a domestically controlled REIT if at all times during the five-year period ending on the applicable stockholder’s disposition of our stock, less than 50% in value of our stock was held directly or indirectly by non-U.S. persons. If we were to fail to qualify as a domestically controlled REIT, gain recognized by a foreign stockholder on a disposition of our common stock would be subject to U.S. federal income tax unless our common stock was traded on an established securities market and the foreign stockholder did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 5% of our outstanding common stock. 16 Table of Contents Several of our controlling stockholders have pledged their shares of our stock as collateral under bank loans, which could result in foreclosure and disposition and could have a negative impact on our stock price. As of December 31, 2011, Chaim Katzman, the chairman of our board of directors and his affiliates beneficially owned approximately 47.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Several of our stockholders affiliated with Mr. Katzman, including Gazit-Globe, Ltd. and related entities, have pledged a substantial portion of our stock that they own to secure loans made to them by commercial banks. Based on information from these stockholders, we believe that 80.4% of the shares reported as beneficially owned by Mr. Katzman and his affiliates are pledged to secure loans made to these stockholders. If one of these stockholders defaults on any of its obligations under these pledge agreements or the related loan documents, these banks may have the right to sell the pledged shares in one or more public or private sales that could cause our stock price to decline. Many of the occurrences that could result in a foreclosure of the pledged shares are out of our control and are unrelated to our operations. Some of the occurrences that may constitute such an event of default include: • the stockholder’s failure to make a payment of principal or interest when due; • a reduction in the dividend we pay on our common stock; • the occurrence of another default that would entitle any of the stockholder’s other creditors to accelerate payment of any debts and obligations owed to them by the stockholder; • if the bank, in its absolute discretion, deems that a change has occurred in the condition of the stockholder to which the bank has not given its prior written consent; and • if, in the opinion of the bank, the value of the pledged shares has been reduced or is likely to be reduced (for example, the price of our common stock declines). In addition, because so many shares are pledged to secure these loans, the occurrence of an event of default could result in a sale of pledged shares that would trigger a change of control of our company, even when such a change may not be in the best interests of our stockholders or may violate covenants of certain loan agreements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents 