ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors as well as other information contained in this report should be considered in making any investment decision related to our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. To grow our business, we need to increase acceptance of our products among K-12 education purchasers. Failure to do so would materially and adversely impact our revenue, profitability and growth prospects. We believe that to date most educators who have used Fast ForWord products are “early adopters.” Early adopters make up a relatively small proportion of our K-12 market, so in order to grow our revenue and profit, we need to increase our reach beyond early adopters to more conservative customers. We believe that our ability to grow acceptance of our products in the conservative K-12 education market will depend largely on the critical factors discussed below. Our Fast ForWord products use an approach that differs from the approaches that schools have traditionally used to address reading problems. In particular, our products work because they increase learning capacity, are based on neuroscience research and focus on the development of cognitive skills. All of these concepts may be unfamiliar to educators. K-12 educational practices are slow to change, and it can be difficult to convince educators of the value of a substantially different approach. In order to obtain the best student results from using our product, schools must follow a recommended protocol for Fast ForWord use, which requires a substantial amount of time out of a limited and already crowded school day. Our recommendation that schools follow a prescribed protocol in using our products may limit the number of schools willing to purchase from us. In addition, if our products are not used in accordance with the protocol, they may not produce the expected student results, which may lead to customer dissatisfaction and decreased revenue. Our products are generally implemented in a computer lab with a lab coach or teacher rather than in the classroom with the students’ regular classroom teachers. To reach a broader group of customers, encourage additional sales from existing customers and improve student achievement results, we need to better engage classroom teachers in the products’ implementation, in an effective and efficient manner. We encourage our customers to purchase significant levels of field service because we believe that these services enable more effective product use and lead to stronger student achievement gains. If we are unable to continue to convince customers to purchase these levels of service, customers may experience more difficulty with their implementations. If we are unable to convince our market of the value of our significantly different approach and otherwise overcome the challenges identified above, our revenue and growth prospects could be materially and adversely impacted and our profitability could decline. Our sales cycle tends to be long and somewhat unpredictable, which may result in delayed or lost revenue, which could materially and adversely impact our revenue and net income. Like other companies in the instructional market, our sales to K-12 schools are affected by school purchasing cycles and procedures, which can be quite bureaucratic. The cost of some of our K-12 license packages requires multiple levels of approval in a political environment, which results in a time-consuming sales cycle that can be difficult to predict. When a district decides to finance its license purchase, the time required to obtain necessary approvals can be extended even further. In addition, sales to schools are subject to budgeting constraints, which may require schools to find available discretionary funds, obtain grants or wait until subsequent budget cycles. As a result, our sales cycle generally takes months, and in some cases, can take a year or longer. Therefore, we may devote significant time and energy to a particular customer sale over the course of many months, and then not make the sale when expected or at all. This can result in lost opportunities that can materially and adversely impact our revenue and net income. It is difficult to accurately forecast our future financial results. This may cause us to fail to achieve the financial performance anticipated by investors and financial analysts, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Page 20 Our revenue and net income or loss are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter as a result of many factors, including those discussed below. A significant proportion of our customers’ purchases are made within the last two weeks of each quarter. We therefore have limited visibility on revenue for the quarter until the end of the quarter. If a customer unexpectedly postpones or cancels an expected purchase due to changes in the customer’s objectives, priorities, budget or personnel, we may experience an unexpected shortfall that cannot be made up in the quarter. The effect of the concentration of sales at the end of the quarter is compounded by the fact that our various license and service packages have substantially differing revenue recognition periods. Even when the amount and timing of a transaction can be accurately projected, it may be difficult to predict which license package a customer will purchase. Our quarterly revenue from perpetual licenses became more unpredictable in 2006 than in prior years. Since our December 2004 pricing change, we recognize revenue from most of our perpetual license sales at the time of sale. Before that change, perpetual license revenue was recognized over the related service period. Because of this transition, in 2005 we recognized substantial revenue from perpetual licenses booked in 2003 and 2004, as well as perpetual license sales in 2005. In 2006 a greater proportion of our perpetual license revenue was derived from sales in the current quarter, and we expect that this will persist in 2007.* In addition, our sales strategy emphasizes district-level, multi-site transactions. The receipt or implementation of a single large order, or conversely its loss or delay, can significantly impact the level of sales booked and revenue recognized in a given quarter. Our expense levels are based on our expectations of future revenue and are primarily fixed in the short term. We may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which could cause our net income to fluctuate unexpectedly. Failure to achieve the financial results expected by investors and financial analysts in a given quarter could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. Our historical profitability has been inconsistent, and our profitability levels continue to be uncertain. We started operations in February 1996 and through 2002 incurred significant operating losses. We first became profitable in 2003, incurred a net loss in 2004, were again profitable in 2005 and had a modest operating loss and modest net income in 2006. At December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $77.8 million from inception. Our strategic and operating goals include increasing our booked sales, revenue and profits. In 2006, our booked sales increased 37% over 2005 levels, when booked sales had fallen approximately 15% from 2004. Our ability to achieve increased booked sales, revenue and profit depends on many factors, including but not limited to market acceptance of our products, availability of funding, customers’ prior experience with our products, and general economic conditions, some of which are outside of our control. To meet our targets, we will need to make substantial expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will meet our targets with respect to revenue or operating results. We rely on studies of student performance results to demonstrate the effectiveness of our products. If the validity of these studies or the conclusions that we draw from them are challenged, our reputation could be harmed and our business prospects and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We rely heavily on statistical studies of student results on assessments to demonstrate that our Fast ForWord products lead to improved student achievement. Reliance on these studies to support our claims about the effectiveness of our products involves risks, including the following: • The results of studies depend on schools’ appropriately implementing the products and adhering to the product protocol. If a school does not do so, the study may not show that our products produce substantial student improvements. • Some studies on which we rely may be challenged because the studies use a limited sample size, lack a randomly selected control group, include assistance or participation from the Company or its scientists, or have other design characteristics that are not optimal. These challenges may assert that these studies are not sufficiently rigorous or free from bias, and may lead to criticism of the validity of the studies and the conclusions that we draw from them. Page 21 • Schools studying the effectiveness of our products use the product with different types of students and use different assessments, sometimes making it difficult to aggregate or compare results. Our sales and marketing efforts, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted if the studies upon which we rely to demonstrate the effectiveness of our products, or the conclusions we draw from those studies, are seen to be insufficient. We may experience difficulties in launching new products efficiently, without significant technical issues, and on schedule. This could materially slow revenue or decrease profitability. We launched two new products in 2006 and we expect to launch additional products in 2007 and future years.* Unexpected challenges could make these development projects longer or more expensive than planned. In addition, new technology products usually contain bugs that are not discovered in the testing process, and tend to be more challenging to implement when they are first introduced, especially in the diverse and challenging K-12 technology environment. Any significant defect or deficiency in our products could cause customers to cancel or delay orders, cause us to incur significant expenses remedying the problem, and harm our reputation. We are not yet required to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404. We are presently engaged in a process of evaluating and documenting our internal control over financial reporting with the goal of achieving compliance with the management report requirements at the end of 2007 and the auditor attestation requirements at the end of 2008. The process is very costly and requires significant internal resources. If we are unable to comply with Section 404 when we are required to do so or are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, such non compliance or ineffective controls could have a materially adverse effect on us. Under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404, as implemented by the SEC and PCAOB, we will be required to provide a management report and auditors’ attestation and report on our internal control over financial reporting. We have not previously been subject to this requirement. Under current rules and with our current stockholder base and stock price, our deadline for compliance will be December 31, 2007 for the management report requirements and December 31, 2008 for the auditor attestation requirements. The date for compliance with the auditor attestation requirements could be accelerated to December 31, 2007 if we become an “accelerated filer” under the US securities laws as of December 31, 2007. We will not know whether we will become an “accelerated filer” as of December 31, 2007 until June 30, 2007. Historically, we have understood the importance of internal control over financial reporting, and on an ongoing basis, we evaluate our controls, assess whether we should improve them and when appropriate, implement improvements. In connection with our restatements in 2005, we concluded that we had a material weakness in our internal controls relating to revenue and deferred revenue. To address this material weakness, we hired additional accounting staff and we implemented changes in our processes, procedures and controls relating to revenue and deferred revenue. In connection with the audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, management concluded and the Audit Committee concurred that, at December 31, 2005, we no longer had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that, in the course of implementing our processes to achieve compliance with Section 404, we will not detect additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Claims relating to data collection from our user base may subject us to liabilities and additional expense. Schools and clinicians that use our products frequently use students’ names to register them in our products and enter into our database academic, diagnostic and/or demographic information about the students. In addition, the results of student use of our products are uploaded to our database. We have designed our system to safeguard this personally-identifiable information, but the protection of such information is an area of increasing public concern and significant government regulation, including but not limited to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act. If our privacy protection measures prove to be ineffective, we could be subject to liability claims for unauthorized access to or misuses of personally-identifiable information stored in our database. We may also face additional expenses to analyze and comply with increasing regulation in this area. Sales of our products depend on the availability of government funding for public school reading intervention purchases, which is variable and outside the control of both us and our direct customers. If such funding becomes less available, our public school customers may be unable to purchase our products and services on a scale or at prices that we anticipate, which would materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability. Page 22 US public schools are funded primarily through state and local tax revenues, which are devoted primarily to school building costs, teacher salaries and general operating expenses. Public schools also receive funding from the federal government through a variety of federal programs, many of which target children who are poor and/or are struggling academically. Federal funds typically are restricted to specified uses. We believe that the funding for a substantial portion of our K-12 sales comes from federal funding, in particular special education and Title 1 funding. The current federal budget deficit and competing federal priorities may impact the availability of federal education funding. A cutback in federal education funding could have a materially adverse impact on our revenue. State and local school funding can be significantly impacted by fluctuations in tax revenues due to changing economic conditions. We expect that future levels of state and local school spending will continue to be significantly affected by the general economic conditions and outlook. A downturn in the economy that results in a significant reduction in state tax revenues could have a materially adverse impact on our revenue. The availability of funding for instructional products like ours can also be affected by unpredictable events, such as increases in energy costs or damage due to severe weather. We believe that severe storms and spiking energy costs adversely impacted our sales in 2005. Unpredictable events of similar magnitude could adversely impact our revenue in the future. We compete for sales with companies that have longer histories and greater resources than we do. We may not be able to compete effectively in the education market. The market in which we operate is very competitive. While our products are highly differentiated by their neuroscience basis and their focus on building learning capacity and developing cognitive skills, we nevertheless compete vigorously for the funding available to schools. We compete not only against other software-based reading intervention products but also against print and service-based offerings from other companies and against traditional methods of teaching language and reading. Many of the companies providing these competitive offerings are much larger than we are, are more established in the school market than we are, offer a broader range of products to schools, and have greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Encouraged by the No Child Left Behind Act, new competitors may enter our market segment and offer actual or claimed results similar to those achieved by our products. In addition, although traditional approaches to language and reading are fundamentally different from our approach, the traditional methods are more widely known and accepted and, therefore, represent significant competition for available funds. If we lose key personnel or are unable to hire additional qualified personnel as necessary, we may not be able to achieve our business goals, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results and share price. We depend on the performance of Robert Bowen, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and on other senior management, sales, marketing, development, research, educational, finance and other administrative personnel with extensive experience in our industry and with our Company. Mr. Bowen’s current employment agreement with the Company expires in June 2008. The loss of key personnel could harm our ability to execute our business strategy, which could adversely affect our financial results and share price. In addition, we believe that our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to identify, hire, retain and motivate highly skilled employees who are in great demand. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Our current liquidity resources may not be sufficient to meet our needs. We believe that cash flow from operations will be our primary source of funding for our operations during 2007 and the next several years.* In 2006, we generated $4.3 million in cash from operating activities, and we ended the year with $16.4 million in cash and equivalents. In 2005, we used $2.1 million in cash in our operating activities, reflecting the decline in our booked sales from 2004 and higher expenses to support our growth goals.* In addition, we have a line of credit with Comerica Bank totaling $5.0 million, which expires June 2, 2007. At December 31, 2006 no borrowings were outstanding and we were in compliance with the covenants of that line. Funding our liquidity needs out of cash flow from operations will require us to achieve certain levels of booked sales and expenses. If we are unable to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow from operations, or are unable to obtain Page 23 waivers or amendments from Comerica in the event we do not comply with our covenants, we would be required either to obtain debt or equity financing from other sources, or to reduce expenses. Reducing our expenses could adversely affect our operations by reducing the resources available for sales, marketing, research or development efforts. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we infringe on the rights of others, we could become subject to significant liabilities, need to seek licenses or lose our rights to sell our products. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on whether we are able to maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. It is possible that our issued patents will not offer sufficient protection against competitors with similar technology, that our trademarks will be challenged or infringed by competitors, or that our pending patent applications will not result in the issuance of patents. In addition, we could become party to patent or trademark infringement claims, litigation or interference proceedings. These proceedings could result from claims that we are violating the rights of others or may be necessary to enforce our own rights. Any such proceedings would result in substantial expense and significant diversion of management effort. An adverse determination in such proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our most important products are based on licensed inventions owned by two universities. If we were to lose our rights under this license, it would materially harm our business. The licensor may terminate the license if we fail to perform our obligations and do not timely cure the violation. We believe that we are currently in compliance with the license in all material respects. We generally require the execution of a written licensing agreement, which restricts the use and copying of our software products. However, if unauthorized copying or misuse were to occur to a substantial degree, our sales could be adversely affected. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates effectively control the voting power of our company. At December 31, 2006, Warburg, Pincus Ventures, our largest shareholder, owned approximately 45% of our outstanding stock, Trigran Investments owned approximately 11% of our outstanding stock, and our officers and directors held approximately 16% of the outstanding stock (excluding the Warburg Pincus shares). As a result, these stockholders are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, and may have interests that diverge from those of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also delay, prevent or deter a change in control of our company. Our common stock is thinly traded and its price is volatile. Our common stock presently trades on the Nasdaq Global Market, and our trading volume is low. For example, during 2006, our average daily trading volume was approximately 6,000 shares. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile since our July 1999 initial public offering and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 