Item 1A. Risk Factors In this Item 1A, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” and “Dril-Quip” used herein refer to Dril-Quip, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless otherwise indicated or as the context so requires. Our principal stockholders have the ability to significantly influence our management and affairs and matters on which shareholders may vote. Our principal stockholders, Larry E. Reimert, Gary D. Smith and J. Mike Walker and certain entities they control, beneficially own approximately 25% of our common stock and are able to exert significant control over us. The collective ownership of Messrs. Reimert, Smith and Walker may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. In addition, our principal stockholders are generally not prohibited from selling their interest in us to a third party. A material or extended decline in expenditures by the oil and gas industry could significantly reduce our revenue and income. Our business depends upon the condition of the oil and gas industry and, in particular, the willingness of oil and gas companies to make capital expenditures on exploration, drilling and production operations offshore. The level of capital expenditures is generally dependent on the prevailing view of future oil and gas prices, which are influenced by numerous factors affecting the supply and demand for oil and gas, including: • worldwide economic activity; • the level of exploration and production activity; • interest rates and the cost of capital; • environmental regulation; • federal, state and foreign policies regarding exploration and development of oil and gas; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain production levels and pricing; • the cost of exploring and producing oil and gas; • the cost of developing alternative energy sources; • the sale and expiration dates of offshore leases in the United States and overseas; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves in offshore areas; • technological advances; and • weather conditions. Oil and gas prices and the level of offshore drilling and production activity have been characterized by significant volatility in recent years. Worldwide military, political and economic events have contributed to oil and natural gas price volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Although hydrocarbon prices improved in recent years until mid-2008 and the level of offshore exploration, drilling and production activity increased during that period, we cannot assure you that such price and activity levels will be sustained and that there will not be continued volatility in the level of drilling and production related activities. Even during periods 11 Table of Contents of high prices for oil and natural gas, companies exploring for oil and gas may cancel or curtail programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons. In addition, a significant and prolonged decline in hydrocarbon prices would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The global financial crisis may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial condition. The current uncertainty and turmoil in the credit markets may negatively impact the ability of our customers to finance purchases of our products and services and could result in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders included in our backlog or adversely affect the collectability of our receivables. If the crisis reduces the availability of credit to our customers, they may reduce their drilling and production expenditures, thereby decreasing demand for our products and services, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Additionally, the current economic situation could have an impact on our suppliers, causing them to be unable to meet their obligations to us. Although we do not currently anticipate a need to access the credit markets in the short term, a prolonged constriction on future lending by banks or investors could result in higher interest rates on future debt obligations or could restrict our ability to obtain sufficient financing to meet our long-term operational and capital needs. Our international operations expose us to instability and changes in economic and political conditions and other risks inherent to international business, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. We have substantial international operations, with approximately 65%, 69% and 69% of our revenues derived from foreign sales in each of 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. We operate our business and market our products and services in all of the significant oil and gas producing areas in the world and are, therefore, subject to the risks customarily attendant to international operations and investments in foreign countries. Risks associated with our international operations include: • volatility in general economic, social and political conditions; • terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances; • expropriation or nationalization of assets; • renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; • foreign taxation, including changes in law or interpretation of existing law; • assaults on property or personnel; • restrictive action by local governments; • foreign and domestic monetary policies; • limitations on repatriation of earnings; • travel limitations or operational problems caused by public health threats; and • changes in currency exchange rates. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to manufacture products abroad or the demand for our products and services in some locations. To date, we have not experienced any significant problems in foreign countries arising from local government actions or political instability, but there is no assurance that such problems will not arise in the future. Interruption of our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our overall operations. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions and there are inherent uncertainties in the final determination of our tax liabilities. As a result of our international operations, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. Therefore, the final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of the statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide. Foreign income tax returns of foreign subsidiaries and related entities are routinely examined by foreign tax authorities. These tax examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes or penalties or both. Please see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for a description of our current dispute regarding a tax assessment in Brazil. Our excess cash is invested in various financial instruments which may subject us to potential losses. We invest excess cash in various financial instruments including interest bearing accounts, money market mutual funds and funds which invest in U.S. Treasury obligations and repurchase agreements backed by Treasury obligations. However, changes in the financial markets, including interest rates, as well as the performance of the issuers, can affect the market value of our short-term investments. We may suffer losses as a result of foreign currency fluctuations and limitations on the ability to repatriate income or capital to the U.S. We conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than the United States dollar, and our operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We cannot assure you that we will be able to protect the Company against such fluctuations in the future. Historically, we have not conducted business in countries that limit repatriation of earnings. However, as we expand our international operations, we may begin operating in countries that have such limitations. Further, we cannot assure you that the countries in which we currently operate will not adopt policies limiting repatriation of earnings in the future. Our business involves numerous operating hazards that may not be covered by insurance. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. Our products are used in potentially hazardous drilling, completion and production applications that can cause personal injury, product liability and environmental claims. A catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and/or services are used may expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, product liability or commercial claims. To the extent available, we maintain insurance coverage that we believe is customary in the industry. Such insurance does not, however, provide coverage for all liabilities, and we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover claims that may arise or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may lose money on fixed-price contracts. A portion of our business consists of the designing, manufacturing and selling of our equipment for major projects pursuant to competitive bids, and is performed on a fixed-price basis. Under these contracts, we are typically responsible for all cost overruns, other than the amount of any cost overruns resulting from requested changes in order specifications. Our actual costs and any gross profit realized on these fixed-price contracts will often vary from the estimated amounts on which these contracts were originally based. This may occur for various reasons, including: • errors in estimates or bidding; • changes in availability and cost of labor and materials; and • variations in productivity from our original estimates. 13 Table of Contents These variations and the risks inherent in our projects may result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Our business could be adversely affected if we do not develop new products and secure and retain patents related to our products. Technology is an important component of our business and growth strategy, and our success as a company depends to a significant extent on the development and implementation of new product designs and improvements. Whether we can continue to develop systems and services and related technologies to meet evolving industry requirements and, if so, at prices acceptable to our customers will be significant factors in determining our ability to compete in the industry in which we operate. Many of our competitors are large multinational companies that may have significantly greater financial resources than we have, and they may be able to devote greater resources to research and development of new systems, services and technologies than we are able to do. Our ability to compete effectively will also depend on our ability to continue to obtain patents on our proprietary technology and products. Although we do not consider any single patent to be material to our business as a whole, the inability to protect our future innovations through patents could have a material adverse effect. We may be required to recognize a charge against current earnings because of percentage-of-completion accounting. Revenues and profits on long-term project contracts are recognized on a percentage-of-completion method. We calculate the percent complete and apply the percentage to determine revenues earned and the appropriate portion of total estimated costs. Accordingly, purchase order price and cost estimates are reviewed periodically as the work progresses, and adjustments proportionate to the percentage complete are reflected in the period when such estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits, we would have to recognize a charge against current earnings, which could be significant depending on the size of the project or the adjustment. Loss of our key management or other personnel could adversely impact our business. We depend on the services of our executive management team, Larry E. Reimert, Gary D. Smith and J. Mike Walker. The loss of any of these officers could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. In addition, competition for skilled machinists, fabricators and technical personnel among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research activities successfully and develop and produce marketable products and services. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates paid by us or both. If either of these events were to occur, in the near-term, the profits realized by us from work in progress would be reduced and, in the long-term, our production capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. Our operations and our customers’ operations are subject to a variety of governmental laws and regulations that may increase our costs, limit the demand for our products and services or restrict our operations. Our business and our customers’ businesses may be significantly affected by: • federal, state and local and foreign laws and other regulations relating to the oilfield operations, worker safety and the protection of the environment; 14 Table of Contents • changes in these laws and regulations; and • the level of enforcement of these laws and regulations. In addition, we depend on the demand for our products and services from the oil and gas industry. This demand is affected by changing taxes, price controls and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas industry in general, including those specifically directed to offshore operations. For example, the adoption of laws and regulations curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and gas for economic or other policy reasons could adversely affect our operations by limiting demand for our products. We cannot determine the extent to which our future operations and earnings may be affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in existing regulations. Because of our foreign operations and sales, we are also subject to changes in foreign laws and regulations that may encourage or require hiring of local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. If we fail to comply with any applicable law or regulation, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected. Our businesses and our customers’ businesses are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may increase our costs, limit the demand for our products and services or restrict our operations. Our operations and the operations of our customers are also subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations affect the products and services we design, market and sell, as well as the facilities where we manufacture our products. In addition, environmental laws and regulations could limit our customers’ exploration and production activities. We are required to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with environmental laws and regulations and anticipate that we will continue to be required to do so in the future. These laws and regulations change frequently, which makes it impossible for us to predict their cost or impact on our future operations. The modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations imposing more stringent environmental restrictions could adversely affect our operations. These laws may provide for “strict liability” for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety, rendering a party liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such party. Sanctions for noncompliance may include revocation of permits, corrective action orders, administrative or civil penalties, and criminal prosecution. Some environmental laws and regulations provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. In addition, we may be subject to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances, as well as damage to natural resources. These laws and regulations also may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, or for our acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations at the time such acts were performed. Any of these laws and regulations could result in claims, fines or expenditures that could be material to results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may be unable to successfully compete with other manufacturers of drilling and production equipment. Several of our primary competitors are diversified multinational companies with substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than ours and which have been engaged in the manufacturing business for a much longer time than us. If these competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to developing and marketing competitive products and services, we may not be able to compete effectively. Similarly, consolidation among our competitors could enhance their product and service offerings and financial resources, further intensifying competition. The loss of a significant customer could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our principal customers are major integrated oil and gas companies, large independent oil and gas companies and foreign national oil and gas companies. Offshore drilling contractors and engineering and 15 Table of Contents construction companies also represent a portion of our customer base. In 2007, our top 15 customers represented approximately 51% of total revenues, with no customer accounting for more than 10% of our total revenues. In 2008, our top 15 customers represented approximately 45% of total revenues, with no customer accounting for more than 10% of our total revenues. While we are not dependent on any one customer or group of customers, the loss of one or more of our significant customers could, at least on a short-term basis, have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our customers’ industries are undergoing continuing consolidation that may impact our results of operations. The oil and gas industry is rapidly consolidating and, as a result, some of our largest customers have consolidated and are using their size and purchasing power to seek economies of scale and pricing concessions. This consolidation may result in reduced capital spending by some of our customers or the acquisition of one or more of our primary customers, which may lead to decreased demand for our products and services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our level of sales to a customer that has consolidated or replace that revenue with increased business activity with other customers. As a result, the acquisition of one or more of our primary customers may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations or our financial condition. We are unable to predict what effect consolidations in the industry may have on price, capital spending by our customers, our selling strategies, our competitive position, our ability to retain customers or our ability to negotiate favorable agreements with our customers. Increases in the cost of raw materials and energy used in our manufacturing processes could negatively impact our profitability. Any increases in commodity prices for items such as nickel, molybdenum and heavy metal scrap that are used to make the steel alloys required for our products would result in an increase in our raw material costs. Similarly, any increase in energy costs would increase our product costs. If we are not successful in raising our prices on products to compensate for any increased raw material or energy costs, our margins will be negatively impacted. We depend on third party suppliers for timely deliveries of raw materials, and our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies in a timely manner. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials from third parties. The ability of these third parties to deliver raw materials may be affected by events beyond our control. Any interruption in the supply of raw materials needed to manufacture our products could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reputation with our customers. Our shares that are eligible for future sale may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or a perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. This risk is compounded by the fact that a substantial portion of our common stock is owned by Messrs. Reimert, Smith and Walker and certain entities they control. Messrs. Reimert, Smith and Walker and certain entities they control have piggyback and demand registration rights that provide for the registration of the resale of shares at our expense which will allow those shares to be sold in the public market generally without restriction. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The trading price of our common stock and the price at which we may sell common stock in the future are subject to large fluctuations in response to any of the following: • limited trading volume in our common stock; • quarterly variations in operating results; 16 Table of Contents • general financial market conditions; • the prices of natural gas and oil; • announcements by us and our competitors; • our liquidity; • changes in government regulations; • our ability to raise additional funds; • our involvement in litigation; and • other events. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the near future. We have not paid any dividends in the past and do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our Board of Directors reviews this policy on a regular basis in light of our earnings, financial condition and market opportunities. We currently intend to retain any earnings for the future operation and development of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 