Item 1A. Risk Factors Below are some risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those presented in our forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management’s current expectations, beliefs, and assumptions and are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could lead to actual results materially different from those described in our forward-looking statements. We can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained. Factors that could adversely affect our operations and prospects or which could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, but are not limited to the following risks. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations We depend on tenants for our revenue, and accordingly, lease terminations and/or tenant defaults, particularly by one of our large lead tenants, could adversely affect the income produced by our properties, which may harm our operating performance, thereby limiting our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The success of our investments materially depends on the financial stability of our tenants. Our tenants may experience a change in their business at any time. As a result, our tenants may delay a number of lease commencements, decline to extend or renew their leases upon expiration, fail to make rental payments when due, or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenants’ leases, or expiration of existing leases without renewal, and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated or expired leases. For example, Cingular Wireless exercised its termination option at the Glenridge Highlands II Building in December 2007, with an effective date of December 31, 2008. In the event of a tenant default or bankruptcy, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-letting our property. If significant leases are terminated or defaulted upon, we may be unable to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. The occurrence of any of the situations described above, particularly if it involves one of our significant lead tenants, could seriously harm our operating performance. As of December 31, 2007, our most substantial lead tenants, based on annualized gross rents, were BP Corporation N.A. (approximately 5%), NASA (approximately 3 4%), and the Leo Burnett Company (approximately 4%). As lead tenants, the revenues generated by the properties these tenants occupy are substantially reliant upon the financial condition of these tenants and, accordingly, any event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or a general downturn in the business of any of these tenants may result in the failure or delay of such tenant’s rental payments, which may have a substantial adverse effect on our operating performance. We face considerable competition in the leasing market and may be unable to renew existing leases or re-let space on terms similar to the existing leases, or as leases expire, or we may expend significant capital in our efforts to re-let space, which may adversely affect our operating results. Leases representing approximately 6% of our rentable square feet (including our pro rata share of properties owned by unconsolidated joint ventures) at our properties will expire in 2008, assuming no exercise of early termination rights. We compete with a number of other developers, owners, and operators of office and office-oriented, mixed-use properties, and we may not be able to renew leases with our existing tenants or we may be unable to re-let space to new tenants if our current tenants do not renew their leases. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose potential tenants, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain tenants upon expiration of their existing leases. Even if our tenants renew their leases or we are able to re-let the space, the terms and other costs of renewal or re-letting, including the cost of required renovations, increased tenant improvement allowances, leasing commissions, declining rental rates, and other potential concessions, may be less favorable than the terms of our current leases and could require significant capital expenditures. If we are unable to renew leases or re-let space in a reasonable time, or if rental rates decline or tenant improvement, leasing commissions, or other costs increase, our financial condition, cash flows, cash available for distribution, value of our common stock, and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. We depend on key personnel. Our continued success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of certain key personnel including, but not limited to, Donald A. Miller, CFA, Robert E. Bowers, Laura P. Moon, Raymond L. Owens, and Carroll A. Reddic, each of whom would be difficult to replace. Although we have entered into employment agreements with these key members of our executive management team, we cannot provide any assurance that any of them will remain in our employ. Our ability to retain our management group, or to attract suitable replacements should any members of the executive management group leave, is dependent on the competitive nature of the employment market. The loss of services of one or more of these key members of our management team could adversely affect our results of operations and slow our future growth. Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets. We have not obtained and do not expect to obtain “key person” life insurance on any of our key personnel. We also believe that, as we expand, our future success depends in large part upon our ability to hire and retain highly skilled managerial, investment, financing, operational, and marketing personnel. The current market for such skilled personnel is extremely competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Our rental revenues will be significantly influenced by the economies and other conditions of the office market in general and of the specific markets in which we operate, particularly in Chicago, Washington, D.C., and the New York metropolitan area, where we have high concentrations of office properties. Because our portfolio consists primarily of office properties, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in a single property type. This concentration exposes us to the risk of economic downturns in the office sector to a greater extent than if our portfolio also included other sectors of the real estate industry. We are susceptible to adverse economic or other conditions in the markets in which we operate, such as periods of economic slowdown or recession; the oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, office properties in a 4 particular area; industry slowdowns; relocation of businesses; and changing demographics. In addition to changes in general, regional, national, and international economic conditions, our operating performance is impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties. Our properties located in Chicago, Washington, D.C., and the New York metropolitan area accounted for approximately 26%, 19%, and 15%, respectively, of our 2007 annualized gross rent. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse market conditions in these particular areas. Any adverse economic or real estate developments in the markets in which we have a concentration of properties, or in any of the other markets in which we operate, or any decrease in demand for office space resulting from the local business climate could adversely affect our rental revenues and operating results. Economic changes that impact the real estate market generally may cause our operating results to suffer and decrease the value of our real estate properties. The investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the expenses incurred in connection with the properties. If our properties do not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, then our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. In addition, there are significant expenditures associated with an investment in real estate (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes, and maintenance costs) that generally do not decline when circumstances reduce the income from the property. The following factors, among others, may adversely affect the operating performance and long- or short-term value of our properties: • changes in the national, regional, and local economic climate, particularly in markets in which we have a concentration of properties; • local office market conditions such as changes in the supply of, or demand for, space in properties similar to those that we own within a particular area; • the attractiveness of our properties to potential tenants; • changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds that may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive or otherwise reduce returns to stockholders; • the financial stability of our tenants, including bankruptcies, financial difficulties, or lease defaults by our tenants; • changes in operating costs and expenses, including costs for maintenance, insurance, and real estate taxes, and our ability to control rents in light of such changes; • the need to periodically fund the costs to repair, renovate, and re-let space; • earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes and other natural disasters, civil unrest, terrorist acts or acts of war, which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; and • changes in, or increased costs of compliance with, governmental regulations, including those governing usage, zoning, the environment, and taxes. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates, or declining demand for real estate, or public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decrease in rents or an increased occurrence of defaults under existing leases, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any of the above factors may prevent us from realizing growth or maintaining the value of our real estate properties. Future acquisitions of properties may not yield anticipated returns, may result in disruptions to our business, and may strain management resources. We intend to continue acquiring high-quality office properties. In deciding whether to acquire a particular property, we make certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. However, 5 newly acquired properties may fail to perform as expected. Our management may underestimate the costs necessary to bring acquired properties up to standards established for their intended market position, which may result in the properties’ failure to achieve projected returns. In particular, to the extent that we engage in acquisition activities, they will pose the following risks for our ongoing operations: • we may acquire properties or other real estate-related investments that are not initially accretive to our results upon acquisition or accept lower cash flows in anticipation of longer term appreciation, and we may not successfully manage and lease those properties to meet our expectations; • we may not achieve expected cost savings and operating efficiencies; • we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations; • management attention may be diverted to the integration of acquired properties, which in some cases may turn out to be less compatible with our growth strategy than originally anticipated; • the acquired properties may not perform as well as we anticipate due to various factors, including changes in macro-economic conditions and the demand for office space; and • we may acquire properties without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, for liabilities, whether known or unknown, such as clean-up of environmental contamination; claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties; and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers, and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. The illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial, and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many forces, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates, and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot provide any assurances that we will have funds available to correct such defects or to make such improvements. Our inability to dispose of assets at opportune times or on favorable terms could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations, thereby limiting our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, the federal tax code imposes restrictions on a REIT’s ability to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. In particular, the tax laws applicable to REITs require that we hold our properties for investment, rather than primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business, which may cause us to forego or defer sales or properties that otherwise would be in our best interest. Therefore, we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions or on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to pay distributions on, and the value of, our common stock. Furthermore, in acquiring a property, we may agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict our ability to dispose of the property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. Although we currently do not have any such agreements, these “lock-up” provisions would further restrict our ability to turn our investments into cash and could affect cash available for distributions. Lock-up provisions also could impair our ability to take actions during the lock-up 6 period that would otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders and, therefore, may have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock relative to the value that would result if the lock-up provisions did not exist. Our operating results may suffer because of potential development and construction delays and resultant increased costs and risks. We may acquire and develop properties, including unimproved real properties, upon which we will construct improvements. We will be subject to uncertainties associated with re-zoning for development; environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups; and our builders’ ability to build in conformity with plans, specifications, budgeted costs, and timetables. A builder’s performance also may be affected or delayed by conditions beyond the builder’s control. Delays in completing construction also could give tenants the right to terminate preconstruction leases. We may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to builders before they complete construction. These and other factors can result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment. In addition, we will be subject to normal lease-up risks relating to newly constructed projects. We also must rely on rental income and expense projections and estimates of the fair market value of property upon completion of construction when agreeing upon a purchase price at the time we acquire the property. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a property, and our return on our investment could suffer. Our real estate development strategies may not be successful. We will be subject to risks associated with our development activities that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and ability to pay distributions on, and the value of, our common stock, including, but not limited to: • development projects in which we have invested may be abandoned and the related investment will be impaired; • we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other governmental permits and authorizations; • we may not be able to obtain land on which to develop; • we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects or to obtain financing on favorable terms; • construction costs of a project may exceed the original estimates or construction may not be concluded on schedule, making the project less profitable than originally estimated or not profitable at all (including the possibility of contract default, the effects of local weather conditions, the possibility of local or national strikes, and the possibility of shortages in materials, building supplies, or energy and fuel for equipment); • upon completion of construction, we may not be able to obtain, or obtain on advantageous terms, permanent financing for activities that we financed through construction loans; and • we may not achieve sufficient occupancy levels and/or obtain sufficient rents to ensure the profitability of a completed project. Moreover, substantial renovation and development activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of management’s time and attention, diverting their attention from our other operations. 7 Future terrorist attacks in the major metropolitan areas in which we own properties could significantly impact the demand for, and value of, our properties. Our portfolio maintains significant holdings in markets such as Chicago, Washington, D.C., the New York metropolitan area, Boston, and greater Los Angeles, each of which has been, and continues to be, a high risk geographical area for terrorism and threats of terrorism. Future terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, and other acts of terrorism or war would severely impact the demand for, and value of, our properties. Terrorist attacks in and around any of the major metropolitan areas in which we own properties also could directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction, loss, or increased security costs, and could thereafter materially impact the availability or cost of insurance to protect against such acts. A decrease in demand could make it difficult to renew or re-lease our properties at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. To the extent that any future terrorist attacks otherwise disrupt our tenants’ businesses, it may impair their ability to make timely payments under their existing leases with us, which would harm our operating results. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition and our cash flow, and there can be no assurance as to future costs and the scope of coverage that may be available under insurance policies. We carry comprehensive general liability, fire, extended coverage, business interruption rental loss coverage, and umbrella liability coverage on all of our properties and earthquake, wind, and flood coverage on properties in areas where such coverage is warranted. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are adequate and appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage, and industry practice. However, we may be subject to certain types of losses, those that are generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism and, in some cases, earthquakes, hurricanes, and flooding, that generally are not insured, either because such coverage is not available or is not available at commercially reasonable rates. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose a significant portion of the capital we have invested in the damaged property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it impractical or undesirable to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable costs in the future, as the costs associated with property and casualty renewals may be higher than anticipated. In addition, insurance risks associated with potential terrorism acts could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. With the enactment of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 (TRIPRA), insurers, but not reinsurers, must make terrorism insurance available under their property and casualty insurance policies, but this legislation does not regulate the pricing of such insurance. In some cases, mortgage lenders have begun to insist that commercial property owners purchase coverage against terrorism as a condition of providing mortgage loans. Such insurance policies may not be available at a reasonable cost, if at all, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our properties. In such instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We may not have adequate coverage for such losses. If any of our properties incur a casualty loss that is not fully insured, the value of that asset will be reduced by such uninsured loss. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for insurance, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in lower distributions to our stockholders. 8 Our current and future joint venture investments could be adversely affected by a lack of sole decision-making authority and our reliance on joint venture partners’ financial condition. We have historically entered into joint ventures with certain public programs sponsored by our former advisor and with other third parties. In the future we intend to enter into strategic joint ventures with unaffiliated institutional investors to acquire, develop, improve, or dispose of properties, thereby reducing the amount of capital required by us to make investments and diversifying our capital sources for growth. As of December 31, 2007, we owned 12 properties representing approximately 2.6 million rentable square feet through joint ventures. Such joint venture investments involve risks not otherwise present in a wholly owned property, development, or redevelopment project, including the following: • in these investments, we do not have exclusive control over the development, financing, leasing, management, and other aspects of the project, which may prevent us from taking actions that are opposed by our joint venture partners; • joint venture agreements often restrict the transfer of a co-venturer’s interest or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; • we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property or joint venture, which could create the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, such as acquisitions or sales; • such co-venturer may, at any time, have economic or business interests or goals that are, or that may become, inconsistent with our business interests or goals; • such co-venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions, requests, or policies or objectives, including our current policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a REIT; • the possibility that our co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, which would mean that we and any other remaining co-venturers would generally remain liable for the joint venture’s liabilities; • our relationships with our co-venturers are contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the applicable joint venture agreements and, in such event, we may not continue to own or operate the interests or assets underlying such relationship or may need to purchase such interests or assets at a premium to the value to continue ownership; • disputes between us and our co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and efforts on our business and could result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable joint venture to additional risk; or • we may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our co-venturers, and the activities of a joint venture could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, even though we do not control the joint venture. Any of the above might subject a property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and thus reduce the returns to our investors. Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations may reduce our net income and the cash available for distributions to our stockholders. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. Tenants’ ability to operate and to generate income to pay their lease obligations may be affected by permitting and compliance obligations arising under such laws and regulations. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on tenants, owners, or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may hinder our ability to sell, rent, or pledge such property as collateral for future borrowings. 9 Compliance with new laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws by agencies or the courts may require us to incur material expenditures. Future laws, ordinances, or regulations may impose material environmental liability. Additionally, our tenants’ operations, the existing condition of land when we buy it, operations in the vicinity of our properties such as the presence of underground storage tanks or activities of unrelated third parties may affect our properties. In addition, there are various local, state, and federal fire, health, life-safety, and similar regulations with which we may be required to comply, and which may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. Any material expenditures, fines, or damages we must pay will reduce our cash flow and ability to make distributions and may reduce the value of your investment. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. If we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, including removing access barriers, then our cash flows and the amounts available for distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected. Although we believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance, and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other legislation. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to achieve compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other legislation, our financial condition, results of operation, cash flow, and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations and to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. As the present or former owner or operator of real property, we could become subject to liability for environmental contamination, regardless of whether we caused such contamination. Under various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations, a current or former real property owner or operator may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate hazardous or toxic substances, wastes, or petroleum products on, under, from, or in such property. These costs could be substantial and liability under these laws may attach whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such contamination. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held entirely responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a property for damages based on personal injury, natural resources, or property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. The presence of contamination on one of our properties, or the failure to properly remediate a contaminated property, could give rise to a lien in favor of the government for costs it may incur to address the contamination, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral. Due to the presence of contamination on our properties, environmental laws may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures or prevent us from entering into leases with prospective tenants. Some of our properties are adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain underground storage tanks used to store petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, certain of our properties are on or are adjacent to or near other properties upon which others, including former owners or tenants of our properties, have engaged, or may in the future engage, in activities that may release petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. 10 The cost of defending against claims of liability, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could reduce the amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. As the owner of real property, we could become subject to liability for adverse environmental conditions in the buildings on our property. Some of our properties may contain asbestos-containing building materials. Environmental laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos, and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements. In addition, environmental laws and the common law may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. The properties also may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other air quality issues. Any of these materials/conditions could result in liability for personal injury and costs of remediating adverse conditions. As the owner of real property, we could become subject to liability for failure to comply with environmental requirements regarding the handling and disposal of regulated substances and wastes or for non-compliance with health and safety requirements. Some of our tenants may handle regulated substances and wastes as part of their operations at our properties. Environmental laws regulate the handling, use, and disposal of these materials and subject our tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from non-compliance with these requirements. The properties in our portfolio also are subject to various federal, state, and local health and safety requirements, such as state and local fire requirements. If we or our tenants fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. Moreover, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that will materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, cash available for distribution to stockholders, the per share value of our common stock, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. If our tenants become subject to liability for noncompliance, it could affect their ability to make rental payments to us. We are and may continue to be subject to litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We currently are, and are likely to continue to be, subject to litigation, including claims relating to our operations, offerings, and otherwise in the ordinary course of business. Some of these claims may result in significant defense costs and potentially significant judgments against us, some of which are not, or cannot be, insured against. We generally intend to vigorously defend ourselves; however, we cannot be certain of the ultimate outcomes of currently asserted claims or of those that arise in the future. Resolution of these types of matters against us may result in our having to pay significant fines, judgments, or settlements, which, if uninsured, or if the fines, judgments, and settlements exceed insured levels, would adversely impact our earnings and cash flows, thereby impacting our ability to service debt and make quarterly distributions to our stockholders. Certain litigation or the resolution of certain litigation may affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows, expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured, and/or adversely impact our ability to attract officers and directors. In addition, we, and various of our present and former directors and officers, are involved in litigation regarding the Internalization and certain related matters described in Item 3 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe that the allegations contained in these complaints are without merit and will continue to vigorously defend these actions; however, due to the uncertainties inherent in the litigation process, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters and, as with any litigation, the risk of financial loss does exist. 11 Refer to Note 8 of our accompanying consolidated financial statements and Item 3 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the ongoing litigation. We are subject to stockholder litigation against our board of directors and officers, which could exceed the coverage of our current directors’ and officers’ insurance. We are subject to several stockholder lawsuits. Although we retain director and officer liability insurance, there is no assurance that such insurance will cover the claims that are made or will insure us fully for all losses on covered claims. A successful stockholder claim in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows, impair our ability to obtain new director and officer liability insurance on terms favorable to Piedmont, and/or adversely impact our ability to attract directors and officers. If we are unable to satisfy the regulatory requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if our disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting is not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could adversely affect the perception of our business and the value associated with our common stock. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements, or misrepresentations. Although management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in the per share value of our common stock, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. As a public company, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”), requires that we evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in all annual reports, as described in Item 9A(T) of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, our internal control over financial reporting, beginning with the year ending December 31, 2008. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest Our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer will be subject to certain conflicts of interest with regard to enforcing the indemnification provisions contained in the merger agreement and enforcing some of the agreements entered into by us in connection with the Internalization. Donald A. Miller, CFA, our Chief Executive Officer, President, and a director; and Robert E. Bowers, our Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President, Treasurer and Secretary, each received beneficial economic interests in our common stock through their respective approximately 1% ownership interest in Wells Advisory Services I, LLC. (“WASI”), which received 19,546,302 in shares of our common stock (then valued at approximately $175 million) as a result of the Internalization. These shares are subject to an 18-month lock-up period (subject to extension under certain conditions) during which they may not be sold or otherwise transferred. Certain provisions of the merger agreement and many of the ancillary agreements that were executed in connection with the Internalization have significant financial impacts on WASI. In particular, Messrs. Miller and Bowers are subject to conflicts of interest in connection with the enforcement against WASI of indemnification obligations under the merger agreement, the enforcement of a pledge and security agreement, and the release of 162,706 escrowed shares of our common stock issued to WASI under an escrow agreement. The enforcement of these agreements could have a negative effect on WASI and, therefore, could adversely affect the financial interests of Messrs. Miller and Bowers. The economic interests of Messrs. Miller and Bowers in WASI could compromise their judgment with respect to the enforcement of our agreements with WASI. 12 Our independent directors serve as directors and/or trustees of entities sponsored by our former advisor with whom we entered into contractual arrangements relating to the Internalization. Those relationships could affect their judgment with respect to enforcing the agreements we entered into in connection with the Internalization. Several of our independent directors serve as directors and/or trustees of entities sponsored by our former external advisor, with whom we entered into contractual arrangements relating to the Internalization. Donald S. Moss, one of our independent directors, is a director of Wells Timberland REIT, and all of our current independent directors, with the exception of Wesley E. Cantrell, are trustees of the Wells Family of Real Estate Funds, an open-end management company organized as an Ohio business trust, which includes as its series the Wells Dow Jones Wilshire U.S. REIT Index Fund and the Wells Dow Jones Wilshire Global RESI Index Fund. Our independent directors have no financial interest in the entities that have contractual obligations to us relating to the Internalization. Nevertheless, the relationship of several of our independent directors to entities sponsored by our former advisor could affect their judgment with respect to enforcing the agreements we entered into in connection with the Internalization. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure There is no public trading market for our common stock; therefore, it will be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares. There is no current public market for our common stock, as our common stock is not currently listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. Stockholders may not sell their shares unless the purchaser meets the applicable suitability and minimum purchase requirements. Our charter also prohibits the ownership of more than 9.8% of our stock, unless exempted by our board of directors, which may inhibit large investors from desiring to purchase our shares. Moreover, our share redemption program includes numerous restrictions that limit a stockholder’s ability to sell his or her shares to us, and our board of directors may amend, suspend, or terminate our share redemption program at any time upon 30 days’ notice and may suspend it without notice in certain circumstances. Therefore, it will be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares promptly or at all. If a stockholder is able to sell his or her shares, it may be at a discount to the price he or she originally paid for such shares. It also is likely that our shares would not be accepted as the primary collateral for a loan. Our shares of common stock should only be viewed as a long-term investment due to the illiquid nature of our shares. We have limited experience operating as a self-advised REIT, which makes our future performance and the performance of your investment difficult to predict. As a result of the Internalization, we may be exposed to risks which we have not historically encountered. We have a limited operating history as a self-advised company. Prior to the Internalization, our day-to-day operations were performed by an external advisor, which had more personnel than we now have. Given this change in the personnel on which we rely to run our operations, our future performance is more difficult to predict. As a result of the Internalization, we may encounter risks to which we have not historically been exposed. Excluding the effect of the eliminated asset management fees, our direct overhead, on a consolidated basis, will increase as a result of becoming self-advised. Prior to the Internalization, the responsibility for such overhead was borne by our former advisor and its affiliates. We currently employ a staff of approximately 100 people. As their employer, we will be subject to those potential liabilities that are commonly faced by employers, such as workers’ disability and compensation claims, potential labor disputes, and other employee-related liabilities and grievances, and we will bear the costs of the establishment and maintenance of such plans. 13 We are dependent on external sources of capital, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. To qualify as a REIT, we must, among other things, distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). In order to eliminate federal income tax, we will be required to distribute annually 100% of our net taxable income (including capital gains). Consequently, we are largely dependent on external sources of capital to fund our development and acquisition activities. Further, in order to maintain our REIT status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves, or required debt or amortization payments. We have access to capital through our dividend reinvestment plan and our $500 million revolving variable rate unsecured credit facility (the “$500 Million Unsecured Facility”). Our access to additional third-party sources of capital is dependent upon a number of factors, including general market conditions and competition from other real estate companies. Debt capital may not be available at reasonable rates. To the extent that capital is not available to acquire or develop properties, profits may not be realized or their realization may be delayed, which could result in an earnings stream that is less predictable than some of our competitors and result in our not meeting our projected earnings and distributable cash flow levels in a particular reporting period. Failure to meet our projected earnings and distributable cash flow levels in a particular reporting period could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect, which may discourage third parties from conducting a tender offer or seeking other change of control transactions that could involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise benefit our stockholders. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company or the removal of existing management and, as a result, could prevent our stockholders from being paid a premium for their common stock over the then-prevailing value or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. These provisions include limitations on the ownership of our common stock, advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals, and our board of directors’ power to reclassify shares of common stock and issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock. Our charter limits the number of shares a person may own, which may discourage a takeover that could result in a premium price for our common stock or otherwise benefit our stockholders. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may actually or constructively own more than 9.8% of our outstanding common stock, which may inhibit large investors from desiring to purchase our shares. This restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our board of directors can take many actions without stockholder approval. Our board of directors has overall authority to oversee our operations and determine our major corporate policies. This authority includes significant flexibility. For example, our board of directors can do the following: • within the limits provided in our charter, prevent the ownership, transfer, and/or accumulation of shares in order to protect our status as a REIT or for any other reason deemed to be in the best interest of us and our stockholders; • issue additional shares without obtaining stockholder approval, which could dilute the ownership of our then-current stockholders; 14 • amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series, without obtaining stockholder approval; • classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights, and other terms of such classified or reclassified shares, without obtaining stockholder approval; • employ and compensate affiliates; • direct our resources toward investments that do not ultimately appreciate over time; • change creditworthiness standards with respect to our tenants; • change our investment or borrowing policies; • determine that it is no longer in our best interest to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT; and • suspend or modify the share redemption program and dividend reinvestment plan. Any of these actions could increase our operating expenses, impact our ability to make distributions, or reduce the value of our assets without giving you, as a stockholder, the right to vote. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue stock with terms that may subordinate the rights of our common stockholders, which may discourage a third party from acquiring us in a manner that could result in a premium price for our common stock or otherwise benefit our stockholders. Our board of directors could, without stockholder approval, issue authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. In addition, our board of directors could, without stockholder approval, classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights, and other terms of such classified or reclassified shares. Thus, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have priority with respect to distributions and amounts payable upon liquidation over the rights of the holders of our common stock. Such preferred stock also could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for our common stock, or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our board of directors could adopt the limitations available under Maryland law on changes in control that could have the effect of preventing transactions in the best interest of our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under certain circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing value of such shares, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and thereafter would require the recommendation of our board of directors and impose special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” 15 (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. Our board of directors has opted out of these provisions of Maryland law. As a result, these provisions will not apply to a business combination or control share acquisition involving our company. However, our board of directors may opt in to the business combination provisions and the control share provisions of Maryland law in the future. Additionally, Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the Maryland General Corporation Law (“MGCL”), permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or our bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which (for example, a classified board) we do not currently employ. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our company or of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current value. Our charter, our bylaws, the limited partnership agreement of our operating partnership, and Maryland law also contain other provisions that may delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, the employment agreements with our named executive officers contain, and grants under our incentive plan also may contain, change-in-control provisions that might similarly have an anti-takeover effect, inhibit a change of our management, or inhibit in certain circumstances tender offers for our common stock or proxy contests to change our board. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to recover claims against our directors and officers are limited, which could reduce our recovery and our stockholders’ recovery against them if they negligently cause us to incur losses. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith in a manner he reasonably believes to be in our best interest and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our charter eliminates our directors’ and officers’ liability to us and our stockholders for money damages except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property, or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and which is material to the cause of action. Our charter requires us to indemnify our directors and officers to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law for liability actually incurred in connection with any proceeding to which they may be made, or threatened to be made, a party, except to the extent that the act or omission of the director or officer was material to the matter giving rise to the proceeding and was either committed in bad faith or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, the director or officer actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property, or services, or, in the case of any criminal proceeding, the director or officer had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law, which could reduce our and our stockholders’ recovery from these persons if they act in a negligent manner. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers (as well as by our employees and agents) in some cases. If we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”), the return to our stockholders would be reduced; if we become an unregistered investment company, we could not continue our business. We are not registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, as amended. If we were obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act that impose, among other things: • limitations on capital structure; 16 • restrictions on specified investments; • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and • compliance with reporting, recordkeeping, voting, proxy disclosure, and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses. In order to maintain our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act, we must engage primarily in the business of buying real estate. To maintain compliance with the Investment Company Act exemption, we may need to sell assets we would otherwise wish to retain. In addition, we may have to acquire additional income- or loss-generating assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or may have to forego opportunities to acquire interests in companies that we would otherwise want to acquire and would be important to our investment strategy. If we were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, we would be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. In addition, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. Our stockholders are limited in their ability to sell their shares pursuant to our share redemption program. Our share redemption program limits the amount of shares that may be redeemed in any given calendar year. Subject to funds being available, we currently limit the number of shares redeemed pursuant to our share redemption program as follows: (1) during any calendar year, we will not redeem in excess of 5.0% of the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the prior calendar year; and (2) in no event shall the aggregate amount of redemptions under our share redemption program exceed aggregate proceeds received from the sale of shares pursuant to our dividend reinvestment plan. In addition, the board of directors may set aside and reserve an amount determined annually by the board not to exceed 20% of the funds available for redemption during each calendar year for (1) redemptions upon the death of a stockholder (“redemptions upon death”), and (2) redemptions for certain stockholders to satisfy required minimum distribution requirements as set forth under Sections 401(a)(9), 403(b)(10), 408(a)(6), 408(b)(3), and 408(A)(c)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“required minimum distribution redemptions”), which will have the effect of reducing the amount of funds otherwise available for other redemption requests. In addition, stockholders must have held their shares for a period of one year prior to submitting a redemption request. Finally, our board of directors can suspend the share redemption program immediately under certain conditions. Therefore, our stockholders should not assume that they will be able to sell all or any portion of their shares back to us pursuant to our share redemption program. We may face additional risks and costs associated with directly managing properties occupied by government tenants. We currently own ten properties where some or all of the tenants at such properties are federal government agencies. As such, lease agreements with these federal government agencies contain certain provisions required by federal law, which require, among other things, that the contractor (which is the lessor or the owner of the property), agree to comply with certain rules and regulations, including but not limited to, rules and regulations related to anti-kickback procedures, examination of records, audits and records, equal opportunity provisions, prohibition against segregated facilities, certain executive orders, subcontractor cost or pricing data, and certain provisions intending to assist small businesses. Through one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, we directly manage properties with federal government agency tenants and, therefore, we are subject to additional risks associated with compliance with all such federal rules and regulations. In addition, there are certain additional requirements relating to the potential application of certain equal opportunity provisions and the related requirement to prepare written affirmative action plans applicable to government contractors and subcontractors. Some of the factors used to determine whether such requirements apply to a company that is affiliated with the actual government contractor, the legal entity that is the lessor under a lease with a federal government agency, include whether such company and the government contractor are under common ownership, have common 17 management, and are under common control. As a result of the Internalization, we own the entity that is the government contractor and the property manager, increasing the risk that such Equal Employment Opportunity Commission requirements and requirements to prepare affirmative action plans pursuant to the applicable executive order may be determined to be applicable to us. If the fiduciary of an employee pension benefit plan subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) (such as a profit-sharing, Section 401(k), or pension plan) or any other retirement plan or account fails to meet the fiduciary and other standards under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) as a result of an investment in our stock, the fiduciary could be subject to civil and criminal penalties. There are special considerations that apply to a pension or profit-sharing trust or Individual Retirement Account (“IRA”) investing in our shares. Fiduciaries investing the assets of a pension, profit-sharing, Section 401(k), or other qualified retirement plan, or the assets of an IRA, in our common stock should satisfy themselves that: • the investment is consistent with their fiduciary obligations under ERISA and the Code; • the investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing the plan or IRA, including the plan’s investment policy; • the investment satisfies the prudence and diversification requirements of Sections 404(a)(1)(B) and 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA and other applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code; and • the investment will not impair the liquidity of the plan or IRA. Our distributions to stockholders may change. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, we paid aggregate cash dividends in the amount of $0.5868 per share, respectively. Distributions will be authorized and determined by our board of directors in its sole discretion from time to time and will depend upon a number of factors, including: • cash available for distribution; • our results of operations; • our financial condition, especially in relation to our anticipated future capital needs of our properties; • the level of reserves we establish for future capital expenditures; • the distribution requirements for REITs under the Code; • the level of distributions paid by listed REITs; • our operating expenses; and • other factors our board of directors deems relevant. We expect to continue to pay quarterly distributions to our stockholders. However, we bear all expenses incurred by our operations, and our funds generated by operations, after deducting these expenses, may not be sufficient to cover desired levels of distributions to our stockholders. Consequently, we may not continue our historic level of distributions to stockholders, and our distribution levels may fluctuate. We are dependent upon our former advisor for information technology support services. We are currently party to a Support Services agreement with our former advisor under which our former advisor provides, among other things, information technology support. If our former advisor were to suffer a significant adverse change in its operations, whether financial, physical, or otherwise, our operations could be adversely impacted as well. 18 Income Tax Risks Our failure to qualify as a REIT could adversely affect our operations and our ability to make distributions. We are owned and operated in a manner intended to qualify us as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes; however, we do not have a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) as to our REIT status. In addition, we own all of the common stock of a subsidiary that has elected to be treated as a REIT, and if our subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, it is possible that we also would fail to qualify as a REIT unless we (or the subsidiary REIT) could qualify for certain relief provisions. Our qualification and the qualification of our subsidiary REIT, as a REIT will depend on satisfaction, on an annual or quarterly basis, of numerous requirements set forth in highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. A determination as to whether such requirements are satisfied involves various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. The fact that we hold substantially all of our assets through our operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the REIT requirements for us. No assurance can be given that we, or our subsidiary REIT, will qualify as a REIT for any particular year. If we, or our subsidiary REIT, were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year for which a REIT election has been made, the non-qualifying REIT would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to its stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at corporate rates. Moreover, unless the non-qualifying REIT were to obtain relief under certain statutory provisions, the non-qualifying REIT also would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. This treatment would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to our stockholders because of the additional tax liability to us for the years involved. As a result of such additional tax liability, we might need to borrow funds or liquidate certain investments on terms that may be disadvantageous to us in order to pay the applicable tax. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may incur certain tax liabilities that would reduce our cash flow and impair our ability to make distributions or to meet the annual distribution requirement for REITs. To obtain the favorable tax treatment accorded to REITs, among other requirements, we normally will be required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and by excluding net capital gains. We will be subject to federal income tax on any undistributed taxable income and our net capital gain. If we fail to distribute during each calendar year at least the sum of (a) 85% of our ordinary income for such year, (b) 95% of our net capital gain income for such year, and (c) any undistributed taxable income from prior periods, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax on the excess of the required distribution over the sum of (i) the amounts actually distributed by us, plus (ii) retained amounts on which we pay income tax at the corporate level. If we realize net income from foreclosure properties that we hold primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, we must pay tax thereon at the highest corporate income tax rate, and if we sell a property, other than foreclosure property, that we are determined to have held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, any gain realized would be subject to a 100% “prohibited transaction” tax. The determination as to whether or not a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. We cannot guarantee that sales of our properties would not be prohibited transactions unless we comply with certain safe-harbor provisions. The need to avoid prohibited transactions could cause us to forego or defer sales of facilities that might otherwise be in our best interest to sell. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Code for REITs and to minimize or eliminate our corporate tax obligations; however, differences between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the distribution requirements of the Code. Certain types of assets generate substantial mismatches between taxable income and available cash, such as real estate that has been financed through financing 19 structures which require some or all of available cash flows to be used to service borrowings. As a result, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our taxable income could cause us to: (1) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (2) borrow on unfavorable terms, or (3) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures, or repayment of debt, in order to comply with REIT requirements. Any such actions could increase our costs and reduce the value of our common stock. Further, we may be required to make distributions to our stockholders when it would be more advantageous to reinvest cash in our business or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Compliance with REIT qualification requirements may, therefore, hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. In addition, we own interests in a certain taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”) that is subject to federal income taxation and we and our subsidiaries may be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property. We face possible adverse changes in tax laws including changes to state’s treatment of REITs and their stockholders, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. From time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, including changes to a state’s treatment of REITs and their stockholders, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. The shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. If such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. These increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends. We may face additional risks by reason of the Internalization. As a result of the Internalization, we acquired all of the business and assets of two existing C corporations which had previously performed advisory and management functions for us and others in a transaction in which we would have succeeded to the C corporation’s earnings and profits. Under the Code, earnings and profits attributable to a C corporation must be distributed before the end of the REIT’s tax year in order for the REIT to maintain its qualification as a REIT. Both of the existing C corporations acquired by merger had earnings and profits; however, immediately prior to the consummation of the merger transactions, each such corporation distributed an amount represented to be equal to or in excess of its respective amount of earnings and profits. The amounts distributed were determined in reliance upon calculations of earnings and profits prepared by our former advisor based on management representations and financial information as to the operations of the two C corporations. If the IRS were to assert successfully that such calculations were inaccurate, resulting in one or both of the entities surviving the merger being deemed to have retained earnings and profits from non-REIT years, then we could be disqualified from being taxed as a REIT unless we were able to make a distribution of the re-determined amount of excess earnings and profits within 90 days of the final determination thereof. In order to make such a distribution, we might need to borrow funds or liquidate certain investments on terms that may be disadvantageous to us. Moreover, due to the acquisition of certain property management contracts pursuant to the Internalization, a portion of the income derived from such contracts will not qualify for purposes of the 75% and 95% income tests required for qualification as a REIT. The IRS may assert also that a portion of the assets acquired pursuant to the merger transactions does not qualify for purposes of the assets tests required for qualification as a REIT. In this regard, we believe that neither the amounts of non-qualifying income nor the value of non-qualifying assets acquired, when added to our calculations of other non-qualifying income or assets, will be sufficient to cause us to fail to satisfy any of such tests required for REIT qualification. No assurance can be given, however, that the IRS will not successfully challenge our calculations of the amount of non-qualifying income earned by us or the value of non-qualifying assets held by us in any given year or that we will qualify as a REIT for any given year. 20 If the discounts made available to participants in our dividend reinvestment plan were deemed to be excessive, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and our status as a REIT could be adversely affected. We are required to distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income in order to qualify for taxation as a REIT. In order for distributions to be treated as distributed for purposes of this test, we must be entitled to a deduction for dividends paid to our stockholders within the meaning of Section 561 of the Code with respect to such distributions. Under this Code section, we will be entitled to such deduction only with respect to dividends that are deemed to be non-preferential, i.e., pro rata amongst, and without preference to any of, our common stockholders. The IRS has issued a published ruling which provides that a discount in the purchase price of a REIT’s newly-issued shares in excess of 5% of the stock’s fair market value is an additional benefit to participating stockholders, which may result in a preferential dividend for purposes of the 90% distribution test. Our dividend reinvestment plan offers participants the opportunity to acquire newly-issued shares of our common stock at a discount intended to fall within the safe harbor for such discounts set forth in the ruling published by the IRS; however, the fair market value of our common stock prior to its listing on a national securities exchange has not been susceptible to a definitive determination. Accordingly, the IRS could take the position that the fair market value of our common stock was greater than the value determined by us for purposes of the dividend reinvestment plan, resulting in purchase price discounts greater than 5%. In such event, we may be deemed to have failed the 90% distribution test for REIT qualification status, and our status as a REIT could be terminated for the year in which such determination is made. Distributions made by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates that apply to certain other corporate distributions. The maximum tax rate for distributions made by corporations to individuals is generally 15% (through 2010). Distributions made by REITs, however, generally continue to be taxed at the normal rate applicable to the individual recipient rather than the 15% preferential rate. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate distributions could cause investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in non-REIT corporations that make distributions, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. A recharacterization of transactions undertaken by our operating partnership may result in lost tax benefits or prohibited transactions, which would diminish cash distributions to our stockholders, or even cause us to lose REIT status. The IRS could recharacterize transactions consummated by our operating partnership, which could result in the income realized on certain transactions being treated as gain realized from the sale of property that is held as inventory or otherwise held primarily for the sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. In such event, such gain would constitute income from a prohibited transaction and would be subject to a 100% tax. If this were to occur, our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders would be adversely affected. Moreover, our operating partnership may purchase properties and lease them back to the sellers of such properties. While we will use our best efforts to structure any such sale-leaseback transaction such that the lease will be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for federal income tax purposes, we can give you no assurance that the IRS will not attempt to challenge such characterization. In the event that any such sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and recharacterized as a financing transaction or loan for U.S. federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such property would be disallowed. If a sale-leaseback transaction were so recharacterized, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which might cause us to fail to meet the distribution requirement for a taxable year. We also might fail to satisfy the REIT qualification asset tests or income tests and, consequently, lose our REIT status. Even if we maintain our status as a REIT, we may be subject to U.S. federal income taxes or state taxes which would reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. As noted, net income from a “prohibited transaction” is subject to a 100% tax. If we are not able to make sufficient distributions, we will be subject to excise tax. Further, we may decide to retain certain gains realized from the sale or other disposition of our 21 property and pay income tax directly on such gains. In that event, our stockholders would be required to include such gains in income and would receive a corresponding credit for their share of taxes paid by us. We also may be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of our operating partnership or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets. In addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our TRS that we utilize to hold an interest in our operating partnership will be subject to U.S. federal and state corporate income tax. Any federal or state taxes we pay will reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect our stockholders. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax laws applicable to investments in REITs and similar entities. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and we cannot assure you that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of a stockholder. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our common stock. You are urged to consult with your tax advisor with respect to the status of legislative, regulatory, or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in common stock. Risks Associated with Debt Financing We have incurred and are likely to continue to incur mortgage and other indebtedness, which may increase our business risks. As of December 31, 2007, we had total outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.3 billion, of which $89.0 million is outstanding under our $500 Million Unsecured Facility. In addition, we have remaining capacity under our $500 Million Unsecured Facility that we may draw on at any time (and such $500 Million Unsecured Facility is expandable up to $1 billion based on the applicable lenders’ consent). We are likely to incur additional indebtedness to acquire properties or other real estate-related investments, to fund property improvements, and other capital expenditures or for other corporate purposes, such as to repurchase shares of our common stock either through our existing share redemption program or through other liquidity programs that our board of directors may authorize if conditions warrant or to fund future distributions to our stockholders. Significant borrowings by us increase the risks of an investment in us. For example, if there is a shortfall between the cash flow from properties and the cash flow needed to service our indebtedness, then the amount available for distributions to stockholders may be reduced. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. Although no such instances exist as of December 31, 2007, in those cases, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but we would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt on behalf of the entities that own our properties. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgages or other indebtedness contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, a default on a single loan could affect multiple properties. If any of our properties are foreclosed on due to a default, our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders will be limited. High mortgage rates may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire, our net income, and the amount of cash distributions we can make. If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable rates, we may not be able to finance the purchase of properties. If we place mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance the properties when the loans become due, or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when we refinance our properties, our income could be reduced. We may be unable to refinance properties. If any of these events occur, our cash flow could be reduced. This, in turn, could reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing more stock or by borrowing more money. 22 Existing loan agreements contain, and future financing arrangements will likely contain, restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We are subject to certain restrictions pursuant to the restrictive covenants of our outstanding indebtedness, which may affect our distribution and operating policies and our ability to incur additional debt. Loan documents evidencing our existing indebtedness contain, and loan documents entered into in the future, will likely contain certain operating covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property or discontinue insurance coverage. In addition, these agreements contain financial covenants, including certain coverage ratios and limitations on our ability to incur secured and unsecured debt, make dividend payments, sell all or substantially all of our assets, and engage in mergers and consolidations and certain acquisitions. Covenants under our existing indebtedness do, and under any future indebtedness likely will, restrict our ability to pursue certain business initiatives or certain acquisition transactions. In addition, failure to meet any of these covenants, including the financial coverage ratios, could cause an event of default under and/or accelerate some or all of our indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on us. Increases in interest rates would increase the amount of our variable-rate debt payments and could limit our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2007, $89.0 million of our approximately $1.3 billion of indebtedness was subject to floating interest rates. Increases in interest rates will increase our interest costs associated with any draws that we may make on our $500 Million Unsecured Facility, which would reduce our cash flows and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. In addition, if we are required to repay existing debt during periods of higher interest rates, we may need to sell one or more of our investments in order to repay the debt, which might not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There were no unresolved SEC staff comments as of December 31, 2007. 