Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report because they could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Before you buy our common stock, you should know that investing in our common stock involves risks, including the risks described below. The risks that are highlighted here are not the only ones we face. If the adverse matters referred to in any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operations could be adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 10. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Declines in the housing market over the past several years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities but spreading to other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. During 2012 and 2011, economic conditions in our markets, the United States and worldwide did generally improve; however, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue. Significant declines in the value of commercial real estate adversely impact us. Many of our loans relate to commercial real estate. Stressed economic conditions have significantly reduced the value of commercial real estate and have strained the financial condition of our commercial real estate borrowers, especially in the land development and non-owner occupied commercial real estate segments of our loan portfolio. Those difficulties have adversely affected us and could produce additional losses and other adverse effects on our business. Market volatility may adversely affect us. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without apparent regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. The current levels of market disruption and volatility have an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse changes in economic conditions or interest rates may negatively affect our earnings, capital and liquidity. The results of operations for financial institutions, including our bank, have been materially and adversely affected by changes in prevailing local and national economic conditions, including declines in real estate market values and the related declines in value of our real estate collateral, increases or decreases in interest rates and changes in the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Our profitability is heavily influenced by the spread between the interest rates we earn on loans and investments and the interest rates we pay on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities, as well as provisions to the allowance for loan losses. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the cities and surrounding areas of Grand Rapids, Holland and Lansing, Michigan, and declines in the economies of these areas have adversely affected us. Like most banking institutions, our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors that influence market interest rates and our ability to respond to changes in these rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities may be such that they will be affected differently by a given change in interest rates. 11. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Even routine funding transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The effect of the U.S. Government’s response to the financial crisis remains uncertain. In response to the turmoil in the financial services sector and the severe recession in the broader economy, the U.S. Government has taken legislative and other action intended to restore financial stability and economic growth. In October, 2008, then President Bush signed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”). Among other things, the EESA established the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). Under TARP, the United States Treasury Department (the “Treasury Department”) was given the authority, among other things, to purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions and others for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury Department announced a program under EESA pursuant to which it would make senior preferred stock investments in qualifying financial institutions (the “Capital Purchase Program”). In February, 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”). The ARRA contained, among other things, a further package of economic stimulus measures and amendments to EESA’s restrictions on compensation of executives of financial institutions and others participating in the TARP. In addition to legislation, the Federal Reserve Board eased short-term interest rates and implemented a series of emergency programs to furnish liquidity to the financial markets and credit to various participants in those markets, as well as programs of quantitative easing through direct purchases of certain Treasury securities. The FDIC and the Treasury Department also implemented further measures to address the crisis in the financial services sector. Further legislation providing tax relief and other economic stimulus was adopted by Congress in 2010 and 2011. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact of these laws, and their respective implementing regulations, the programs of the government agencies, or any further legislation or regulations, on the financial markets or the broader economy. A failure to stabilize the financial markets, and a continuation or worsening of the current financial market conditions, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. 12. The effect of financial services legislation and regulations remains uncertain. In response to the financial crisis, on July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act, the most comprehensive reform of the regulation of the financial services industry since the Great Depression of the 1930’s. Among many other things, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for increased supervision of financial institutions by regulatory agencies, more stringent capital requirements for financial institutions, major changes to deposit insurance assessments by the FDIC, prohibitions on proprietary trading and sponsorship or investment in hedge funds and private equity funds by insured depository institutions and their affiliates, heightened regulation of hedging and derivatives activities, a greater focus on consumer protection issues, in part through the formation of a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau having powers formerly split among different regulatory agencies, extensive changes to the regulation of mortgage lending, imposition of limits on interchange transaction and network fees for electronic debit transactions, repeal of the prohibition on payment of interest on demand deposits, the effective winding up of additional expenditures of funds under the TARP, and the imposition of a “sunset date” of December 31, 2012 on expenditures under the ARRA. Many of the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions have delayed effective dates, while other provisions require implementing regulations of various federal agencies, some of which have not yet been adopted in final form. There can be no assurance that the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations will not limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, impose additional costs on us, impact our revenues or the value of our assets, or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our credit losses could increase and our allowance may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities, and nonpayment, when it occurs, may have a materially adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition as well as the value of our common stock. Our focus on commercial lending may result in a larger concentration of loans to small businesses. As a result, we may assume different or greater lending risks than other banks. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for losses based on several factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our allowance may not be sufficient to cover our losses, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results. The actual amounts of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may exceed the amounts of past provisions. Additions to our allowance decrease our net income. We rely heavily on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our management team, including Michael H. Price, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, and our other senior managers. The loss of Mr. Price, or any of our other senior managers, could have an adverse effect on our growth and performance. We have entered into employment contracts with Mr. Price and two other executive officers. The contracts provide for a three-year employment period that is extended for an additional year each year unless a notice is given indicating that the contract will not be extended. In addition, we continue to depend on our key commercial loan officers. Several of our commercial loan officers are responsible, or share responsibility, for generating and managing a significant portion of our commercial loan portfolio. Our success can be attributed in large part to the relationships these officers as well as members of our management team have developed and are able to maintain with our customers as we continue to implement our community banking philosophy. The loss of any of these commercial loan officers could adversely affect our loan portfolio and performance, and our ability to generate new loans. Many of our key employees have signed agreements with us agreeing not to compete with us in one or more of our markets for specified time periods if they leave employment with us. However, we may not be able to effectively enforce such agreements. Some of the other financial institutions in our markets also require their key employees to sign agreements that preclude or limit their ability to leave their employment and compete with them or solicit their customers. These agreements make it more difficult for us to hire loan officers with experience in our markets who can immediately solicit their former or new customers on our behalf. 13. Decline in the availability of out-of-area deposits could cause liquidity or interest rate margin concerns, or limit our growth. We utilize out-of-area or wholesale deposits to support our assets. These deposits are generally a lower cost source of funds when compared to the interest rates that we would have to offer in our local markets to generate a commensurate level of funds. In addition, the overhead costs associated with wholesale deposits are considerably less than the overhead costs we would incur to obtain and administer a similar level of local deposits. A decline in the availability of these wholesale deposits would require us to fund our growth with more costly funding sources, which could reduce our net interest margin, limit our growth, reduce our asset size, or increase our overhead costs. Wholesale deposits include deposits obtained through brokers. If a bank is not well capitalized, regulatory approval is required to accept brokered deposits. Future sales of our common stock or other securities may dilute the value of our common stock. In many situations, our Board of Directors has the authority, without any vote of our shareholders, to issue shares of our authorized but unissued preferred or common stock, including shares authorized and unissued under our Stock Incentive Plan of 2006. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital. Any such issuance would dilute the percentage of ownership interest of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of the common stock. In addition, option holders under our stock-based incentive plans may exercise their options at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms. We are subject to significant government regulation, and any regulatory changes may adversely affect us. The banking industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law. These regulations are primarily intended to protect customers, not our creditors or shareholders. Existing state and federal banking laws subject us to substantial limitations with respect to the making of loans, the purchase of securities, the payment of dividends and many other aspects of our business. Some of these laws may benefit us, others may increase our costs of doing business, or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. Federal economic and monetary policy may also affect our ability to attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. Our single-family real estate lending business faces significant change. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed the regulation of single-family residential mortgage lending in the United States. Among other things, the law transferred rule-making and enforcement powers from a number of federal agencies to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), imposed new risk retention and recordkeeping requirements on lenders (such as our bank) which sell single-family residential mortgage loans in the secondary market, required revision of disclosure documents mandated by various federal laws, limited loan originator compensation and expanded recordkeeping and reporting requirements under other federal statutes. Some of the required regulations, including those implementing the Dodd-Frank Act’s requirements that lenders consider a prospective borrower’s ability to repay based on specific underwriting criteria and defining the characteristics of “qualified mortgages” that presumably satisfy the ability to pay requirement, were adopted in final form by the CFPB in January 2013, with effective dates in January 2014. Other regulations, including those combining the forms of disclosure documents required under the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, have been proposed by the CFPB, and are expected to be finally adopted in 2013. These and other changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act, when implemented, will require substantial modifications to the entire mortgage lending and servicing industry. Although there can be no assurance when, or in what form, these regulatory changes may finally be adopted, their impact may involve changes to our operations and increased compliance costs in making single-family residential mortgage loans. 14. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. We compete for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous Michigan-based and national and regional banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities that provide financial services, including securities firms and mutual funds. Some of the financial institutions and financial service organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are. Most of our competitors have been in business for many years, have established customer bases, are larger, have substantially higher lending limits than we do and offer branch networks and other services which we do not, including trust and international banking services. Most of these entities have greater capital and other resources than we do, which, among other things, may allow them to price their services at levels more favorable to the customer and to provide larger credit facilities than we do. This competition may limit our growth or earnings. Under specified circumstances (that have been modified by the Dodd-Frank Act), securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies under the Bank Holding Company Act may acquire banks and other financial institutions. Federal banking law affects the competitive environment in which we conduct our business. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. Minimum capital requirements may increase. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to capital to be maintained by financial institutions approach convergence with the standards (generally known as Basel III) adopted in December, 2010 by the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. Among other things, those standards contain a narrower definition of elements qualifying for inclusion as Tier 1 capital and higher minimum risk-based capital levels than those specified in current U.S. law and regulations. In June 2012, the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies issued proposed regulations to implement the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III for U.S. financial institutions. Although those regulations were to have taken effect on January 1, 2013, in November 2012, the federal bank regulatory agencies announced an indefinite delay in their effectiveness while the agencies considered comments received on their proposals. In Congressional testimony in February 2013, responsible officials of the federal bank regulatory agencies stated that they anticipate changes in the final versions of the regulations, which they hope to issue in the Spring of 2013. Adoption of increased minimum capital requirements could adversely affect our ability (and that of our bank) to pay cash dividends, reduce our profitability, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance when or if such regulatory changes may become effective. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. We may need or want to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, particularly if our asset quality or earnings were to deteriorate significantly. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. Economic conditions and any loss of confidence in financial institutions generally may increase our cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of capital. There can be no assurance that capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of equity or debt purchasers, or counterparties participating in the capital markets, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, potentially, our liquidity. Also, if we need to raise capital in the future, we may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would have to compete with those institutions for investors. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The banking industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and the laws of the State of Michigan contain provisions that may discourage or prevent a takeover of our company and reduce any takeover premium. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws, and the corporate laws of the State of Michigan, include provisions which are designed to provide our Board of Directors with time to consider whether a hostile takeover offer is in our and our shareholders’ best interest. These provisions, however, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. The provisions also could diminish the opportunities for a holder of our common stock to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then-current market price for our common stock. These provisions could also prevent transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices, and may limit the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. The Michigan Business Corporation Act contains provisions intended to protect shareholders and prohibit or discourage various types of hostile takeover activities. In addition to these provisions and the provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws, federal law requires the Federal Reserve Board’s approval prior to acquiring “control” of a bank holding company. All of these provisions may delay or prevent a change in control without action by our shareholders and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. There is a limited trading market for our common stock. The price of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, subject to fluctuations based on, among other things, economic and market conditions for bank holding companies and the stock market in general, as well as changes in investor perceptions of our company. The issuance of new shares of our common stock also may affect the market for our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “MBWM.” The development and maintenance of an active public trading market depends upon the existence of willing buyers and sellers, the presence of which is beyond our control. While we are a publicly-traded company, the volume of trading activity in our stock is still relatively limited. Even if a more active market develops, there can be no assurance that such a market will continue, or that our shareholders will be able to sell their shares at or above the offering price. Our ability to pay cash and stock dividends is subject to limitations under various laws and regulations and to prudent and sound banking practices. 16. Our business is subject to operational risks. We, like most financial institutions, are exposed to many types of operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors. Operational errors may include clerical or record keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Given our volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully corrected. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process our transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to loss or liability to us. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations to us, or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as are we, and to the risk that our or our vendors’ business continuity and data security systems prove not to be adequate. We also face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures proves inadequate or are circumvented, causing delays in detection or errors in information. Although we maintain a system of controls designed to keep operational risk at appropriate levels, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer losses from operational risks in the future that may be material in amount. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more before the end of our 2012 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 