D. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, operating results, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Our business entails significant risks. In addition to the usual risks associated with a business, the following is a general description of certain significant risk factors which are applicable to us. WE WILL REQUIRE ADDITIONAL FUNDS IN OUR BUSINESS THAT MAY BE DIFFICULT TO OBTAIN WHEN NEEDED OR ON TERMS ACCEPTABLE TO US. As of January 1, 2007, we had a net cash balance of C$32.5 million (US$27.9 million) consisting of cash, cash equivalents (including cash collaterizing a letter of credit under the notes described below), and marketable securities. We will need to raise additional funds to conduct research and development, preclinical studies, and clinical trials necessary to bring our potential products to market, and to establish marketing, sales, and distribution capabilities, including, as warranted, for Celacade. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including continued scientific progress in our research and development programs, the scope and results of preclinical studies and clinical trials, the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals, the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, and enforcing patent claims, competing technological and market developments, the cost of manufacturing scale-up, effective commercialization activities and arrangements, and other factors not within our control. We have no committed sources of capital. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or on terms acceptable to us. In particular, the 6.45% notes issued by us on October 7, 2005 (the "notes") substantially limit our ability to incur additional secured or unsecured debt while the notes are outstanding. Insufficient funds may require us to scale back or eliminate some, or all, of our research and development programs or license to third parties products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to develop. Any future debt financing arrangements we enter into likely would contain restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. As a consequence of the failure of the ACCLAIM trial to reach its primary endpoint, under the terms of the notes we must maintain a net cash balance of 110% of the outstanding principal amount on the notes. As of January 1, 2007, the remaining principal outstanding under the notes was C$5.3 million (US$4.6 million). In addition, our share price declined significantly following the announcement of the ACCLAIM top-line results in June 2006, 3 which may negatively impact our ability to obtain financing in the future. Should our ability to secure additional financing be delayed, management would be required to adjust its commercialization plans and research and development programs and reduce its cash expenditures in order to ensure that we have sufficient cash to fund planned expenditures. In order to secure financing, if it is even available, it is likely that we will sell additional common shares or financial instruments that are exchangeable for or convertible into common shares. Also, in order to provide incentives to current employees and induce prospective employees and consultants to work for us, we have granted options and intend to offer and issue options to purchase common shares and/or rights exchangeable for or convertible into common shares. These activities could result in substantial dilution to all our shareholders. Capital raising activities and dilution associated with such activities could cause our share price to decline. A CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT OF TIME IS REQUIRED TO ANALYZE AND DIGEST THE VOLUMINOUS CLINICAL TRIAL DATA ARISING FROM THE ACCLAIM TRIAL AND FURTHER INFORMATION MAY LEAD TO ADJUSTMENTS IN STRATEGIES. A large international trial such as ACCLAIM results in considerable data that need to be analyzed and reviewed. We continue to analyze data and it will subsequently be further reviewed and analyzed by independent experts and regulators. Results disclosed are based on data analyzed to the date of disclosure. When combined with results disclosed, such additional information may lead to adjustments in strategy. WE INTEND TO SEEK ADDITIONAL COLLABORATIVE ARRANGEMENTS TO COMMERCIALIZE OUR PRODUCTS. THESE COLLABORATIONS, IF SECURED, MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL. We intend to seek additional collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize some of our products, including Celacade, in Europe and North America. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements on favorable terms, or at all, in the future, or that our current or future collaborative arrangements will be successful. Our strategy for the research, development, and commercialization of our products requires entering into various arrangements with corporate collaborators, licensors, licensees, health care institutions and principal investigators and others, and our commercial success is dependent upon these outside parties performing their respective contractual obligations responsibly and with integrity. The amount and timing of resources such third parties will devote to these activities may not be within our control. There can be no assurance that such parties will perform their obligations as expected. There can be no assurance that our collaborators will devote adequate resources to our programs. WE ARE A DEVELOPMENT-STAGE COMPANY WITH A HISTORY OF LOSSES, WE HAVE NOT RECOGNIZED ANY PRODUCT REVENUES, AND WE MAY NEVER ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY. Our products are in the development stage and, accordingly, our business operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment and maintenance of a developing business enterprise, such as those related to competition and viable operations management. We have incurred a loss in each year since our inception and have received no cash flow from operations to date, and there is no assurance that we will have earnings or cash flow from operations in the future. These losses have resulted in, and are expected to continue to cause decreases in, our cash balances, working capital, and shareholders' equity. The future earnings and cash flow from operations of our business are dependent, in part, on our ability to further develop our products. There can be no assurance that we will grow and be profitable. At November 30, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately C$351.4 million. We have not generated revenues from the commercialization of any products. Our net operating losses over the near term and the next several years are expected to continue as a result of the further clinical trial activity and preparation, as warranted, for regulatory submission necessary to support regulatory approval of our products. To obtain regulatory approval in North America or to support the use of our Celacade technology in HF patients, it may be necessary to conduct another Phase III trial of Celacade and the cost and time required to achieve regulatory approval, if the Celacade device is approved at all, could be substantially increased. There can be no assurance as to if or when such 4 additional clinical trial would be undertaken. There can be no assurance that any such additional clinical trial would be successful. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable at all or on a sustained basis. We expect to have quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in expenses, some of which could be significant, due to expanded research, development, and clinical trial activities. CASH PAYMENTS MAY BE REQUIRED UNDER THE NOTES UPON AN EVENT OF DEFAULT OR CHANGE OF CONTROL. Holders of the notes (the "noteholders") may require that the principal amount of the notes be repaid in cash or that all or a portion of the notes be redeemed in cash upon the occurrence of various events of default (subject to certain cure periods), including but not limited to: o the failure of the common shares of any holder of notes to be freely tradable under applicable Canadian law on the TSX and such lapse continues for a period of ten consecutive days or for more than an aggregate of 30 days in any 365-day period; o the failure of the registration statement to resell the common shares underlying the notes and warrants to be maintained effective pursuant to the terms of the registration rights agreement, subject to permitted grace periods; o the suspension of the common shares from trading on the TSX and NASDAQ (or The NASDAQ Capital Market); o the failure to deliver common shares to the noteholders within ten trading days after the conversion date; o the failure to pay principal and/or interest due under the notes; o the failure to maintain a net cash balance of 110% of the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the notes; o any material default under any indebtedness of ours in an aggregate principal amount of US$5,000,000 or greater; o upon our breach in any material respect of any covenant, including the covenant to maintain a cash balance in the circumstances described above, under the transaction documents (as such term is defined in the securities purchase agreements, as filed on SEDAR, dated October 7, 2005, among us, Vasogen Ireland Limited, Vasogen, Corp., and the subscribers for the notes and the warrants) relating to the notes and warrants; and o upon any guarantee of the notes ceasing to be in full force and effect. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, the interest rate on the notes will be increased to 12% per annum. The noteholders may also require all or a portion of the notes be redeemed in cash upon a change of control. We have not established a sinking fund for payment of the notes, nor do we anticipate doing so. As of January 1, 2007, we have a net cash balance of $32.5 million (US$27.9 million) and approximately $5.3million (US$4.6 million) of principal indebtedness outstanding under the notes. In addition, upon certain fundamental transactions such as a merger or sale of substantially all assets of Vasogen Inc., the warrant holders would be entitled to require us (or our successor entity) to redeem the warrants for cash. WE ARE LEVERAGED AND HAVE DEBT SERVICE OBLIGATIONS. As of January 1, 2007, we had approximately $5.3million (US$4.6 million) of principal indebtedness outstanding under the notes that bears interest at 6.45% per annum. 5 This indebtedness could have important consequences to us. For example, it could: o increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; o impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures, or general corporate purposes; o require us to dedicate a portion of our existing cash to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available for our operations; o limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industry in which we operate; or o place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. In addition, we must maintain a net cash balance of 110% of the outstanding principal amount of the notes. As of January 1, 2007, we were required to maintain a net cash balance of $5.9 million (US$5.0 million) in accordance with the terms of the notes and we had a net cash balance of $32.5 million (US$27.9 million). DESPITE CURRENT INDEBTEDNESS LEVELS AND THE TERMS OF THE NOTES, WE MAY STILL BE ABLE TO INCUR SUBSTANTIALLY MORE DEBT. Despite current indebtedness levels and the terms of the notes, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Under the notes, we are permitted to incur, among other types of indebtedness, indebtedness that is pari passu with or subordinate to the notes and that is repayable on or after 91 days following the maturity date of the notes. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase. WE ARE SUBJECT TO STRINGENT ONGOING GOVERNMENT REGULATION. Biotechnology, medical device, and pharmaceutical companies operate in a high-risk regulatory environment. The FDA, Health Canada, and other health agencies can require additional clinical trials and can be very slow to approve a product and can also withhold product approvals. In addition, these health agencies also oversee many other medical product operations, such as research and development, manufacturing, and testing and safety regulation of medical products. As a result, regulatory risk is normally higher than in other industry sectors. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial clinical research and other costs in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals for our medical products in Canada, the United States, and other jurisdictions. While we are not aware of any pending or threatened governmental action against us in any country, any enforcement action by regulatory authorities with respect to past, or any future, regulatory non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. To date, our Celacade technology has been regulated by the FDA and Health Canada as a medical device. There can be no assurance that this regulatory status will not change in the future or that additional regulatory bodies beyond the medical device authorities will not have input into the approval of our medical products. If the FDA or Health Canada decides to regulate the Celacade therapeutic device as a drug, biologic, or combination product, we could be obligated to conduct additional clinical trials and, in any event, the cost and time required to achieve regulatory approval, if the Celacade device is approved at all, could be substantially increased. We expect to pursue discussions regarding our phase III ACCLAIM trial with the FDA. It is possible that these discussions could lead to the requirement for additional phase III or phase IV clinical trials as a condition of approval. The results presented in respect of Class II NYHA patients may not be sufficient to support FDA or other health regulatory approvals. Should we elect to conduct additional studies, such decision would increase the cost of and the timeline for developing Celacade for chronic heart failure. 6 There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain regulatory compliance with respect to all or any part of our current or future products, including maintaining our CE Mark approval for Celacade in Europe, or that we will be able to timely and profitably produce our products while complying with applicable regulatory requirements. If we fail to maintain compliance, regulatory authorities can institute proceedings to detain or seize products, issue a recall, enjoin future violations, assess civil and criminal penalties against us and our directors, officers, and employees, or require us to make substantial changes to our manufacturing operations. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. WE DO NOT YET HAVE ALL THE REQUIRED APPROVALS TO MARKET OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES, AND OUR CLINICAL TRIALS MAY NOT YIELD RESULTS THAT WILL ENABLE US TO OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL. We have not completed the development of any products and there can be no assurance that any products will be successfully developed. None of our products has received regulatory approval for commercial use and sale in North America. We cannot market a pharmaceutical or medical device product in any jurisdiction until it has completed thorough preclinical testing and clinical trials in addition to that jurisdiction's extensive regulatory approval process. In general, significant research and development and clinical studies are required to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our products before we can submit any regulatory applications. We may never obtain the required regulatory approvals for Celacade in North America. There can be no assurance that the results of all required clinical trials will demonstrate that these product candidates are safe and effective or, even if the results of the clinical trials are considered successful by us, that the FDA will not require us to conduct additional large-scale clinical trials before it will consider approving such product candidates for commercial use. Approval or consent by the FDA or other regulatory authorities to commence a clinical trial does not indicate that the device, drug, or treatment being studied can or will be approved. Preparing, submitting, and advancing applications for regulatory approval is complex, expensive, and time intensive and entails significant uncertainty. The results of our completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be indicative of future clinical trial results. A commitment of substantial resources to conduct time-consuming research, preclinical studies, and clinical trials will be required if we are to complete development of our products. Clinical trials of our products require that we identify and enroll a large number of patients with the illness under investigation. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of appropriate patients to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner. If we experience difficulty in enrolling a sufficient number of patients to conduct our clinical trials, we may need to delay or terminate ongoing clinical trials and will not accomplish objectives material to our success that could affect the price of our common shares. Delays in planned patient enrolment, or lower than anticipated event rates in our current clinical trials or future clinical trials may result in increased costs, program delays, or both. There can be no assurance that unacceptable toxicities or adverse side effects will not occur at any time in the course of preclinical studies or human clinical trials or, if any products are successfully developed and approved for marketing, during commercial use of our products. The appearance of any such unacceptable toxicities or adverse side effects could interrupt, limit, delay, or abort the development of any of our products or, if previously approved, necessitate their withdrawal from the market. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that disease resistance or other unforeseen factors will not limit the effectiveness of our potential products. Any products resulting from our programs are not expected to be successfully developed or made commercially available in the near term and may not be successfully developed or made commercially available at all. On August 30, 2005, we announced that the pivotal phase III SIMPADICO trial, which was designed to further investigate the use of Celacade technology for peripheral arterial disease ("PAD") was being closed out early at 50 centers in North America. In March 2006, we announced that the SIMPADICO trial did not reach its primary endpoint of change in maximal treadmill walking distance. On June 26, 2006, we announced the initial results from the 2,408-patient phase III ACCLAIM trial of Celacade in chronic HF. While the ACCLAIM study did not reach the primary endpoint of significantly reducing the risk of death or cardiovascular hospitalization in the total population, this endpoint was met for the subgroup of 689 patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class II chronic HF. THE SCIENCE UNDERLYING OUR CELACADE TECHNOLOGY IS RELATIVELY NEW AND UNPROVEN. 7 Definitive proof of the precise mechanism of action of our Celacade technology will require considerably more basic scientific research than we or others have accomplished to date. We have not, nor has any other company, successfully commercialized a therapy similar to that using the Celacade therapeutic device. There can be no assurance that the products we are currently developing will be approved by additional regulatory agencies or that further testing will yield positive results. Should one of our product candidates prove to have insufficient benefit and/or have an unsafe profile, its development will likely be discontinued. With respect to results from the SIMPADICO and ACCLAIM trials, see Item 4B, "General Development of the Business." We do not yet have all the required approvals to market our product candidates, and our clinical trials may not yield results that will enable us to obtain regulatory approval. A FURTHER SETBACK IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR CELACADE TECHNOLOGY WOULD LIKELY CAUSE A FURTHER DROP IN THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON SHARES. We intend to rely substantially on the exploitation of our Celacade technology for our future earnings. If our Celacade technology does not become commercially viable, we may not achieve profitability and our common share price would likely decline further. For example, on June 26, 2006, we announced the initial results from the 2,408-patient phase III ACCLAIM trial of Celacade in chronic HF. While the ACCLAIM study did not reach the primary endpoint of significantly reducing the risk of death or cardiovascular hospitalization in the total population, this endpoint was met for the subgroup of 689 patients with NYHA Class II chronic HF. The closing price of our common shares on NASDAQ decreased from US$1.85 on June 23, 2006, the last trading day prior to the announcement, to US$0.482 on June 26, 2006. WE ARE RELIANT ON OUR KEY PERSONNEL. The operations of our business are highly dependent upon the participation of our key personnel. The loss of the service of any one of our key personnel may materially affect our ability to complete the development of our products, successfully commercialize our products, and to grow and expand our business operations. There is intense competition for qualified management and skilled employees, and our failure to recruit, train, and retain such employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MAY NOT PROVIDE MEANINGFUL PROTECTION FOR OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES. WE MAY INFRINGE OTHERS' PATENTS. PATENT LITIGATION IS TIME CONSUMING AND EXPENSIVE. Our success may depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and processes. We have filed a number of patent applications in the United States and many other countries relating to our products and processes and we have been issued patents covering certain aspects of our immune modulation therapies and medical devices. There can be no assurance that our patent applications will be issued as patents or that any of our issued patents, or any patent that may be issued in the future, will provide us with adequate protection for our products, processes, or technology. The patent positions of biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and medical device companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Therefore, the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device patents cannot be predicted. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and know-how, and no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent trade secrets or know-how. In addition, whether or not our patents are issued, or issued with limited coverage, others may receive patents that contain claims applicable to our products. Our competitors may attempt to circumvent our patents by means of alternative designs and processes. There can be no assurance that any of our patents, or any patents issued to us in the future, will afford meaningful protection against competitors. There can be no assurance that our patents will be held valid or enforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction. The patents of our competitors may impair our ability to do business in a particular area. We also rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate collaborators, employees, consultants, and certain contractors to protect our proprietary technology. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or independently discovered by our competitors. It is possible that our products or processes will infringe, or will be found to infringe, patents not owned or controlled by us. In addition, because patent applications are often maintained in secrecy and may take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications that may later result in issued patents that our products 8 infringe. If any relevant claims of third-party patents that relate to our products are upheld as valid and enforceable, we could be prevented from practicing the subject matter claimed in such patents, or would be required to obtain licenses or redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. There can be no assurance that such licenses would be available at all or on terms commercially reasonable to us or that we could redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. Litigation may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce patents issued to us, or to protect trade secrets. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management efforts regardless of the results of such litigation, and an adverse result could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed, or require us to cease using our technology. IF WE FAIL TO OBTAIN ACCEPTABLE PRICES OR APPROPRIATE REIMBURSEMENT FOR OUR PRODUCTS, OUR ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY COMMERCIALIZE OUR PRODUCTS WILL BE IMPAIRED. Government and insurance reimbursements for healthcare expenditures play an important role for all healthcare providers, including physicians, medical device companies, drug companies, medical supply companies, and companies, such as ours, that plan to offer various products in the United States and other countries in the future. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on our products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products, related therapies and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations, and other organizations. In the United States, our ability to have our products and related treatments and therapies eligible for Medicare or private insurance reimbursement will be an important factor in determining the ultimate success of our products. If, for any reason, federal programs or the insurance companies decline to provide reimbursement for our products and related treatments, our ability to commercialize our products would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our products and related treatments will be eligible for reimbursement. There has been a trend toward declining government and private insurance expenditures for many healthcare items. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. If purchasers or users of our products and related treatments are not able to obtain appropriate reimbursement for the cost of using such products and related treatments, they may forgo or reduce such use. Even if our products and related treatments are approved for reimbursement by federal and private insurers, of which there can be no assurance, the amount of reimbursement may be reduced at times, or even eliminated. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party coverage will be available. COMPETITION IN OUR TARGET MARKETS IS INTENSE, AND DEVELOPMENTS BY OTHER COMPANIES COULD RENDER OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES OBSOLETE. The industry that we compete in is not a static environment, and market share can change rapidly if competing products are introduced. There can be no assurance that we can avoid intense competition from other medical technology companies, pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, universities, government agencies, or research organizations, and from other technological advances that could render our technology uneconomical or obsolete. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial and/or other resources. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective or cheaper to use than any that we may develop. These developments could render our products obsolete and uncompetitive, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there are numerous existing therapies for chronic heart failure, PAD, and neurological diseases, and others are being developed. WE ARE SUBJECT TO EXPOSURE TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the development or use of our technology or prospective products or therapies results, or is alleged to have resulted, in adverse effects. While we have taken, and will continue to take, what we believe are appropriate precautions, there 9 can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Although we currently carry product liability insurance for clinical trials, there can be no assurance that we have sufficient coverage, or can in the future obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost. An inability to obtain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products we develop. A product liability claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. WE DO NOT HAVE COMMERCIAL-SCALE MANUFACTURING CAPABILITY, AND WE LACK COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURING EXPERIENCE. We currently rely upon single sources for the supply of some of the components required to manufacture and use our products. For example, we currently rely on a single subcontractor for the disposable cartridges that are components of the Celacade technology. The establishment of additional or replacement suppliers for certain materials, components, subassemblies, assemblies, supplies, or finished products cannot be accomplished quickly, largely due to the regulatory approval systems and the complex nature of the manufacturing processes employed by many suppliers. The failure to obtain sufficient quantities of component materials on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our clinical studies, business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are successful in developing the markets for our products, we would have to arrange for their scaled-up manufacture. At the present time, we have not arranged for the large-scale manufacture of our products. There can be no assurance that we will, on a timely basis, be able to make the transition from manufacturing clinical trial quantities to commercial production quantities successfully or be able to arrange for contract manufacturing. We believe our contractors will be able to manufacture our medical devices for initial commercialization if the products obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals, but we have not yet demonstrated the capability to manufacture the medical devices in commercial quantities. Potential difficulties experienced by us in manufacturing scale-up, including recalls or safety alerts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The manufacture of our products involves a number of steps and requires compliance with stringent quality control specifications imposed by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Moreover, our products can only be manufactured in a facility that has undergone a satisfactory inspection by the FDA and/or other relevant regulatory authorities. For these reasons, we would not be able to replace our manufacturing capacity quickly if we were unable to use our manufacturing facilities as a result of a fire, natural disaster (including an earthquake), equipment failure, or other difficulty, or if such facilities are deemed not in compliance with the regulatory requirements and the non-compliance could not be rapidly rectified. Our inability or reduced capacity to manufacture our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We expect to enter into additional arrangements with contract manufacturing companies in order to meet requirements for our products or to attempt to improve manufacturing efficiency. If we choose to contract for manufacturing services and encounter delays or difficulties in establishing relationships with manufacturers to produce, package, and distribute our finished products, then clinical trials, market introduction, and subsequent sales of such products would be adversely affected. Further, contract manufacturers must also operate in compliance with the FDA and other regulatory requirements. Failure to do so could result in, among other things, the disruption of product supplies. Our potential dependence upon third parties for the design and/or manufacture of our products may adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver such products on a timely and competitive basis. WE HAVE NO SALES, MARKETING, AND DISTRIBUTION EXPERIENCE. We have no experience in the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical or medical device products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with our collaborators, licensees, or others to perform such activities or that such efforts will be successful. If we decide to market any of our products directly, we must either acquire or internally develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. The acquisition or development of a sales and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and have a negative impact on our product development efforts. If 10 we contract with third parties for the sales and marketing of our products, our revenues will be dependent on the efforts of these third parties, whose efforts may not be successful. If we fail to establish successful marketing and sales capabilities or to make arrangements with third parties, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. OUR STRATEGIC ALLIANCE WITH QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL. To develop a potential secondary point of care for integration of our Celacade technology, we formed a strategic alliance in November 2001 with Quest Diagnostics Incorporated in the United States on an exclusive basis. The purpose of this alliance is to establish an outpatient delivery model to accommodate patient referrals outside hospital clinics and cardiology practices. The final terms of this alliance are not yet established and are the subject of continued discussion between the two companies. Should we not finalize the terms of this strategic alliance, or should the strategic alliance not ultimately be successful, our business may be adversely affected. IF OUR PRODUCTS DO NOT GAIN MARKET ACCEPTANCE, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO GENERATE SIGNIFICANT REVENUES. We may not yet have the required clinical data and results to successfully market our Celacade technology in any jurisdiction; future clinical or preclinical results may be negative or insufficient to allow us to successfully market any of our product candidates; and obtaining needed data and results may take longer than planned, and may not be obtained at all. Even if our products are approved for sale, they may not be successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of any of our products will depend on a number of factors, including demonstration of clinical effectiveness and safety; the potential advantages of our products over alternative treatments; the availability of acceptable pricing and adequate third-party reimbursement; and the effectiveness of marketing and distribution methods for the products. If our products do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, and others in the medical community, our ability to generate significant revenues from our products would be limited. WE MAY NOT ACHIEVE OUR PROJECTED DEVELOPMENT GOALS IN THE TIME FRAMES WE ANNOUNCE AND EXPECT. We set goals for and make public statements regarding timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, anticipated regulatory approval dates, and time of product launch. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays or failures in our clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process, and delays in achieving product development, manufacturing, or marketing milestones necessary to commercialize our products. There can be no assurance that our clinical trials will be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned, or that we will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the scale-up of manufacturing and launch of any of our products. If we fail to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, the price of our common shares could decline. OUR BUSINESS INVOLVES THE USE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIAL, WHICH REQUIRES US TO COMPLY WITH ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS. Although we do not currently manufacture commercial quantities of our products, we produce limited quantities of such products for our clinical trials. Our research and development processes involve the controlled storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials and hazardous biological materials. We are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our resources. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, or that our business, financial condition, and results of operations will not be materially or adversely affected by current or future environmental laws or regulations. 11 Our insurance may not provide adequate coverage with respect to environmental matters. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE RESULTS OF OUR OPERATIONS AND OUR FINANCIAL POSITION. We are subject to a broad range of environmental regulations imposed by federal, state, provincial, and local governmental authorities. Such environmental regulation relates to, among other things, the handling and storage of hazardous materials, the disposal of waste, and the discharge of contaminants into the environment. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental regulation, as a result of the potential existence of unknown environmental issues and frequent changes to environmental regulation and the interpretation and enforcement thereof, there can be no assurance that compliance with environmental regulation or obligations imposed thereunder will not have a material adverse effect on us in the future. THERE ARE RISKS RELATED TO THE HANDLING OF BLOOD. Our product development activities and our clinical trials involve the withdrawal of a small sample of a patient's blood cells into our Celacade single-use disposable cartridge, exposure of such blood cells to our controlled treatment process utilizing our proprietary Celacade therapeutic device and then re-administration of such blood cells to the patient intramuscularly. There are risks associated with the handling of human blood that may contain infectious agents, notwithstanding the sterile techniques employed in our clinical trials. While we believe that our processes and safety procedures for handling human blood are adequate to ensure against infection of the patient and our clinical staff and employees, there is a risk that such procedures will fail and will result in infection. In the event of such infection, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our resources. RISKS RELATING TO OUR SECURITIES OUR SHARE PRICE HAS BEEN HIGHLY VOLATILE AND OUR SHARES COULD SUFFER A DECLINE IN VALUE. The trading price of our common shares has been highly volatile and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: o announcements by us of results of, and developments in, our research and development efforts, including results and adequacy of, and developments in, our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval, for example, our June 26, 2006 announcement of the initial ACCLAIM results; o sales of our common shares, including by holders of the notes on conversion or repayment by us in common shares and in connection with further financings; o announcements regarding new or existing corporate partnerships; o announcements regarding our listing on NASDAQ or The NASDAQ Capital Market; o actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; o litigation or threat of litigation; o failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts; o announcements regarding new or existing products or services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; o comments or opinions by securities analysts or members of the medical community; 12 o conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and life science industries; o announcements by us of significant acquisitions, joint ventures or capital commitments; o additions or departures of key personnel; o economic and other external factors or disasters or crises; o limited daily trading volume; and o developments regarding our patents or other intellectual property or that of our competitors. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been significant volatility in the market prices of securities of life science companies. Factors such as the results and adequacy of our preclinical studies and clinical trials, as well as those of our collaborators, or our competitors; other evidence of the safety or effectiveness of our products or those of our competitors; announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; governmental regulatory actions; developments with our collaborators; developments (including litigation) concerning our patent or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; concern as to the safety of our products; changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts; market conditions for biotechnology stocks in general; and other factors not within our control could have a significant adverse impact on the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management's attention and resources. UNDER THE TERMS OF THE NOTES AND IN THE EVENT THAT WE ARE UNABLE TO ISSUE SHARES AT THE CONVERSION PRICE STIPULATED BY THE NOTES, WE MUST MAKE ADDITIONAL CASH PAYMENTS TO THE NOTEHOLDERS. If, due to restrictions promulgated by any of NASDAQ, The NASDAQ Capital Market, or the TSX, we are unable to issue a sufficient number of our common shares at the conversion price stipulated by the notes to noteholders on conversion of their notes into common shares or on payment of the notes in common shares, we are required to pay to such noteholders an amount in cash to compensate for those shares we are unable to issue. THERE MAY NOT BE AN ACTIVE, LIQUID MARKET FOR OUR COMMON SHARES. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common shares will be maintained on NASDAQ or The NASDAQ Capital Market or the TSX. Investors may not be able to sell their shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our common shares is not active. WE MAY NOT MEET NASDAQ'S CONTINUED LISTING REQUIREMENTS. Failure to meet the applicable quantitative and/or qualitative maintenance requirements of NASDAQ could result in our common shares being delisted from NASDAQ. For continued listing, NASDAQ requires, among other things, that listed securities maintain a minimum bid price of not less than US$1.00 per share. If the bid price falls below the US$1.00 minimum for more than 30 consecutive trading days, we will have 180 days to satisfy the US$1.00 minimum bid price for a period of at least ten trading days. From June 26, 2006 through January 30, 2007, our common shares have not traded above the US$1.00 minimum bid. On August 11, 2006, we announced that we had received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of The NASDAQ Stock Market stating that for the 30 consecutive business days prior to such date, the bid price of our common shares closed below the minimum bid price of US$1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). It is NASDAQ's practice to issue a letter when a listed 13 company does not meet the minimum bid price requirement. Under the rules of the NASDAQ, we are provided six months (180 calendar days), or until February 5, 2007, to regain compliance with the bid price requirement. Based on NASDAQ Marketplace rules, if, at any time before February 5, 2007, the bid price of our common shares closes at US$1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days, we will regain compliance with such rules. If delisted from NASDAQ, our common shares may be eligible for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market or on other over-the-counter markets in the United States. We currently plan to apply for a listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. There can be no assurance that our common shares will be eligible for trading on any such alternative exchanges or markets in the United States. Although we may explore various actions to meet NASDAQ's minimum listing requirements, including effecting a share consolidation, if necessary, there is no guarantee that any such actions will be successful in bringing us into compliance with such requirements. In the event that we are not able to obtain a listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market or another U.S. stock exchange or quotation service for our common shares, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for shareholders to sell their common shares in the United States. Moreover, if we are delisted and obtain a substitute listing for our common shares in the United States, it will likely be on a market with less liquidity, and therefore potentially more price volatility, than NASDAQ or The NASDAQ Capital Market. Shareholders may not be able to sell their common shares on any such substitute U.S. market in the quantities, at the times, or at the prices that could potentially be available on a more liquid trading market. As a result of these factors, if our common shares are delisted from NASDAQ or The NASDAQ Capital Market, the price of our common shares is likely to decline. In addition, a decline in the price our common shares will impair our ability to obtain financing in the future. FUTURE ISSUANCES OF OUR COMMON SHARES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON SHARES AND COULD RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL DILUTION TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS. We expect to issue substantial amounts of common shares in the future. Holders of any remaining outstanding notes may elect to convert their notes into common shares at US$1.99 per share and subject to further adjustments in accordance with the terms of the notes. In addition, the principal amount of any outstanding notes is repayable at the election of Vasogen Ireland Limited by the issuance of common shares, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions. If the outstanding notes are repaid by the issuance of common shares, the common shares will be issued at a 5% discount to the arithmetic average of the weighted average price of the common shares during each of the 12 consecutive trading days preceding the time of issuance (the "12-day market price"), or, in the event that the common shares have a 12-day market price of less than US$1.00, then the common shares will be issued at a 10% discount to the 12-day market price. To the extent that the market price of the common shares declines, we will need to issue an increasing number of common shares per dollar of principal to be repaid. Subject to certain restrictions, noteholders may engage in short sales of the common stock that negatively impact the market price of the common shares, thereby causing us to have to issue more common shares to repay any outstanding notes. As at January 30, 2007, the closing price of the common shares on NASDAQ was US$0.43 per share and on the TSX was $0.51 per share and the aggregate principal amount of the notes remaining outstanding was $5.3 million (US$4.6 million). We issued warrants to purchase 3,333,334 common shares to the investors who subscribed for the notes on issuance of the notes in October 2005. Each warrant entitles the holder to purchase one common share at an exercise price of US$1.99 per share, subject to further adjustments in accordance with the terms of the warrants. The warrants have a five-year term. If Vasogen Ireland Limited elects to accelerate repayment of the notes, we are obligated, subject to regulatory approval, to issue additional warrants generally having an exercise price equal to US$1.99 per share, and a five-year term commencing upon the date of issuance. The number of warrants to be issued upon Vasogen Ireland Limited's election to accelerate repayment of the notes is equal to that number of warrants sufficient to entitle the holder to acquire that number of common shares equal to 65% of the number obtained when the accelerated amount being repaid is divided by US$1.99 per share and subject to further adjustment. We elected to make a US$1.8 million acceleration payment with each of the March, April, and May 2006 installment payments to the noteholders and a US$2.8 million acceleration payment with the June 2006 installment. In respect of the March 1, 2006 acceleration payment, we issued an additional 390,000 warrants exercisable at US$3.11 adjusted to $2.06 for a term of five years from the date of issue, and in respect of each of the 14 April 1 and May 1, 2006 acceleration payments, we issued an additional 390,000 warrants exercisable at US$3.00 adjusted to US$1.99 for a term of five years from the date of issue. In respect of the June 1, 2006 acceleration payment, we issued an additional 606,666 warrants exercisable at US$3.00 adjusted to US$1.99 for a term of five years from the date of issue. As a result of the financing that was completed on November 14, 2006 described below, the 5.1 million warrants outstanding can now be exercised for 7.7 million common shares, which is an increase from the 5.1 million common shares prior to the anti-dilution provisions that were triggered by the November 14, 2006 financing. On November 14, 2006, we issued 43,191,492 units of the Company (the "units") at a price of US$0.47 per unit. Each unit consisted of one common share, 0.4 of one common share purchase warrant expiring on November 14, 2011 (a "series A warrant") and 0.1 of one common share purchase warrant expiring on May 14, 2007 (a "series B warrant"). Warrant certificates issued in favour of purchasers of units in the offering completed in November 2006 provide that each whole series A warrant represents the right, during the term of the warrant, to purchase one common share at a price of US$ 0.63 per common share and each whole series B warrant represents the right, during the term of the warrant, to purchase one common share at a price of US$0.53 per common share. Up to 21,595,745 common shares in aggregate are issuable upon due exercise of the series A and series B warrants. Any series A warrant which remains unexercised as at November 14, 2011, and any series B warrant which remains unexercised as at May 14, 2007, will terminate and be of no further force or effect. Additionally, in connection with the offering, we issued to the placement agent 2,560,000 compensation warrants to purchase common shares at US$0.63 per share. These warrants will expire on November 14, 2009. In addition to common shares issuable in connection with conversion or repayment of the notes and exercise of the warrants, our investors, employees, and directors hold rights to acquire substantial amounts of our common shares. In order to obtain future financing, it is likely that we will issue additional common shares or financial instruments that are exchangeable for or convertible into common shares. Also, in order to provide incentives to current employees and induce prospective employees and consultants to work for us, we intend to offer and issue options to purchase common shares and/or rights exchangeable for or convertible into common shares. Future issuances of substantial amounts of our common shares, or the perception that such issuances are likely to occur, could affect prevailing trading prices of our common shares. Future issuances of our common shares could result in substantial dilution to our shareholders. Capital raising activities and dilution associated with such activities could cause our share price to decline. In addition, the existence of the notes and warrants may encourage short selling by market participants. IF THERE ARE SUBSTANTIAL SALES OF OUR COMMON SHARES, THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON SHARES COULD DECLINE. Sales of substantial numbers of our common shares could cause a decline in the market price of our common shares. Any sales by existing shareholders or holders of options or warrants may have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital and may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. WE HAVE NOT PAID DIVIDENDS. We have never paid cash dividends on our common shares and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance further research and the expansion of our business. IT MAY BE DIFFICULT TO OBTAIN AND ENFORCE JUDGMENTS AGAINST US BECAUSE OF OUR CANADIAN RESIDENCY. We are governed by the laws of Canada. Most of our directors and officers, as well as some of the experts named in this annual information form, are residents of Canada or other jurisdictions outside of the United States and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons may be located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders to effect service of process upon us or such persons within the United States or to realize in the United States on judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States. In addition, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Canada of liabilities predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities law against us, our directors, controlling persons and officers and the experts named in this annual information form who are not residents of the United States, in original actions or in actions for enforcements of judgments of U.S. courts. 15 WE HAVE ADOPTED A SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan. The provisions of such plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common shares, the effect of which may be to deprive our shareholders of a control premium that might otherwise be realized in connection with an acquisition of our common shares. WE ARE LIKELY TO BE CLASSIFIED AS A "PASSIVE FOREIGN INVESTMENT COMPANY" FOR U.S. INCOME TAX PURPOSES, WHICH COULD HAVE SIGNIFICANT AND ADVERSE TAX CONSEQUENCES TO U.S. INVESTORS. We were a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") in our 2006 taxable year, and we believe there is a significant likelihood that we will be classified as a PFIC in our 2007 taxable year and possibly in subsequent years. Our classification as a PFIC could have significant and adverse tax consequences for U.S. holders of our common shares. It may be possible for U.S. holders of common shares to mitigate these consequences by making a so-called "qualified electing fund" election. U.S. investors should read carefully the discussion of PFICs in Item 10 under the caption "Certain Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations" and consult their tax advisers. 