ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you as an investor may lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Various sections of this Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Risks Related to Our Business We Have Returned to Profitability but May not be Able to Sustain Consistent Profitability Although we recorded a profit in fiscal year 2005, we cannot be certain that we will generate sufficient revenues to maintain profitability. If we do maintain profitability, we cannot be certain that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. To achieve and sustain profitable operations and positive cash flows, we must increase our license and support services revenues. If our revenues do not grow at a rate greater than expenses required to fund our continuing operations, we will not be able to maintain the profitability recorded in fiscal year 2005, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We Expect Our Quarterly Revenues and Operating Results to Fluctuate Our revenues and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and we expect that our operating results will continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. A number of factors are likely to cause these variations, including: • demand for our products and services; • the timing of sales of our products and services; • the timing of customer orders and product implementations; • seasonal fluctuations in information technology purchasing; • unexpected delays in introducing new products and services; • increased expenses, whether related to sales and marketing, product development, product migration and customer support, or administration; 12 Table of Contents • changes in the rapidly evolving market for Web-based applications; • the mix of product license and services revenue, as well as the mix of products licensed; • the mix of services provided and whether services are provided by our own staff or third-party contractors; • the mix of domestic and international sales; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • costs related to possible acquisitions of technology or businesses; • global events, including terrorist activities, military operations and widespread epidemics; • the general economic climate; and • changes to our licensing and pricing model. • difficulty in developing and maintaining an indirect sales channel. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Investors should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. We will continue to invest in our research and development, sales and marketing, professional services and general and administrative organizations. We expect such overall spending, in absolute dollars, will increase in future periods, particularly given our recent acquisitions. If our revenue expectations are not achieved, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected and net losses in a given quarter would be greater than expected. Our Revenue For a Particular Period is Difficult to Forecast, and a Shortfall in Revenue Would Harm Our Operating Results As a result of the evolving nature of the market in which we compete, our revenue, license bookings, and earnings are difficult to forecast and are likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We plan our operating expense based on our historical results, and in part, on future revenue projections. Most of our expenses are fixed in the short term and we may not be able to quickly reduce spending if our revenues are lower than we had forecasted. Our ability to accurately forecast our quarterly revenue is limited because our software products have a long sales cycle that makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. We would expect our business, operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected if our revenues do not meet our projections and that net losses in a given quarter would be greater than expected. We Use a Third-Party Service Provider in India for a Significant Portion of Our Research and Development Operations and, If We Are Unable to Manage Our Outsourcing Relationship or if We Are Unable to Use Such a Provider, Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected We are currently using a third-party service provider in India to supply approximately half of our research and development operations. As other software companies have done and are continuing to do, we may continue to allocate more development and IT resources to Indian third parties, and we may expand our own operational capabilities in India, with the expectation of achieving significant efficiencies including reduced operational costs and an around-the-clock development cycle. If we are unable to successfully manage our relationship with the third-party service provider, we will not be able to achieve such efficiencies and our business operations could be harmed. In addition, although to date, the dispute between India and Pakistan involving the Kashmir region and the incidents of terrorism in India have not adversely affected our ability to utilize a third-party service provider in India, such disputes and acts of terrorism could potentially affect our ability to obtain research and development operations from third-party providers. Should we be unable to use a third-party service provider in India for a portion of our research and development in the future, we believe that our business could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Our Business May Become Increasingly Susceptible to Numerous Risks Associated with International Operations International operations are generally subject to a number of risks, including: • expenses associated with customizing products for foreign countries; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition; • changes in jurisdictional tax laws including laws regulating intercompany transactions; • dependence on local vendors; • multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • longer sales cycles; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • seasonality of operations; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • the need to localize our products; • licenses, tariffs, and other trade barriers; • loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • political and economic instability. The acquisition of Tower Technology and our recent consolidation of product development facilities to overseas labor markets substantially increase our international operations. Rapid and complete knowledge transfer and successful retention of key personnel is essential to our plan to consolidate product development facilities and transfer positions to labor markets with lower cost structures. We recorded 39% and 38% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, through licenses and services sold to customers located outside of the United States. We expect international revenue to remain a large percentage of total revenue and we believe that we must continue to expand our international sales activities to be successful. Historically, a majority of our international revenues and costs have been denominated in foreign currencies, and we expect future international revenues and costs will be denominated in foreign currencies. Our international sales growth will be limited if we are unable to establish appropriate foreign operations, expand international sales channel management and support organizations, hire additional personnel, customize products for local markets, develop relationships with international service providers and establish relationships with additional distributors and third-party integrators. In that case, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Even if we are able to successfully expand international operations, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. In the third quarter of 2004, we adopted a foreign exchange policy to reduce our exposure to significant foreign currency fluctuations. We utilize foreign currency forward contracts to hedge foreign currency-denominated payables and receivables. To date, we have not hedged forecasted transactions or firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. Gains and losses on hedging contracts are reflected currently in other income and expense. We typically limit the duration of our foreign currency forward contracts to 90 days. We do not invest in contracts for speculative purposes. We Must Overcome Significant Challenges in Integrating Businesses Operations and Product Offerings to Realize the Benefits of our Business Combinations As part of our overall strategy, we have acquired or invested in, complementary companies, products, and technologies. Risks commonly associated with such transactions include: • the potential difficulties of integrating international and domestic operations; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management resources; • the possibility that the business cultures will not be compatible; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services; • unanticipated expenses related to integration of operations; 14 Table of Contents • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new personnel; • potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business and technology; • costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures, including financial accounting systems and customer information systems; and • potential inability to retain, integrate and motivate key management, marketing, technical sales and customer support personnel. For such transactions to achieve their anticipated benefits, we must successfully combine and integrate products in a timely manner. Integrating can be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and may result in revenue disruption and operational difficulties if not completed in a timely and efficient manner. We may be required to spend additional time or money on integration that would otherwise be spent on developing our business or on other matters. If we do not integrate our operations and technology smoothly or if management spends too much time on integration issues, it could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and diminish the benefits of the acquisition as well as harm our content management business. Prior to the acquisitions, each company operated independently, each with its own business, business culture, markets, clients, employees and systems. Following the acquisitions, we must operate as a combined organization, utilizing common information communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resource practices, including benefits, training and professional development programs. There may be substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in the integration. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisition. We Must Succeed in the Portal, Collaboration and Content Management Market as Well as the Enterprise Content Management and the Document and Records Management Markets if We Are to Realize the Expected Benefits of our product Strategy and Business Combinations. Our long-term strategic plan depends upon the successful development and introduction of products and solutions that address the needs of the portal, collaboration and content management market as well as the enterprise content management and the document and records management markets. For us to succeed in these markets, we must align strategies and objectives and focus a significant portion of our resources towards serving this market. Our success in these new markets will depend on several factors, many of which are outside our control including: • continued growth of the portal, collaboration and content management market; • continued growth of the enterprise content management and document and records management markets; • deployment of the combined company’s products by enterprises; and • barriers to entry for the emergence of substitute technologies and products. If we are unable to succeed in these markets, our business may be harmed and we may be prevented from realizing the anticipated benefits of our business strategy and our acquisitions. Acquisitions, Including Our Acquisition of Tower TechnologyCould Be Difficult to Integrate, Disrupt Our Business, Dilute Stockholder Value and Adversely Affect Our Operating Results The Company will continue to consider strategic acquisitions. We may acquire other businesses in the future, which would complicate our management tasks. We may need to integrate widely dispersed operations that have different and unfamiliar corporate cultures. These integration efforts may not succeed or may distract management’s attention from existing business operations. Failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could seriously harm our business. Also, our existing stockholders would experience dilution if we financed subsequent acquisitions by issuing equity securities. We completed our acquisition of Tower Technology in March 2004. Failure to successfully address the risks associated with this acquisition could 15 Table of Contents harm our ability to fully integrate and market products based on the acquired technology. We may discover liabilities and risks associated with this acquisition that were not discovered in our due diligence prior to signing the respective definitive merger agreements. Although, in each acquisition, a portion of the purchase price was placed in escrow to cover such liabilities, it is possible that the actual amounts required to cover such liabilities will exceed the escrow amount. The Market Price of Our Common Stock May Decline as a Result of Future Acquisitions The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of future acquisitions, based on the occurrence of a number of events, including: • the failure to successfully integrate products; • delays or failure in the integration of technology; • the belief that we have not realized the perceived benefits of the acquisitions in a timely manner or at all; • the issuance of our shares to the acquired company’s shareholders; and • the potential negative effect of the acquisition on our operating results, including the impact of amortization of intangible assets, other than goodwill, created by the acquisition and claims that are not covered by the escrow provisions. Our Quarterly Results May Depend on a Small Number of Large Orders In previous quarters, we derived a significant portion of our software license revenues from a small number of relatively large orders. Our operating results could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to complete a significant order that we expected to complete in a specific quarter. If We Experienced a Product Liability Claim, We Could Incur Substantial Litigation Costs Since our customers use our products for mission-critical applications, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers. They could seek damages for losses from us, which, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate or alter such limitation of liability provisions. Such claims, if brought against us, even if not successful, would likely be time consuming and costly. Our Ability to Use Net Operating Losses to Offset Future Taxable Income may be Subject to Certain Limitations. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (NOLs) to offset future taxable income. A substantial portion of our existing NOLs and tax credits relate to companies that we have acquired and may be subject to limitations arising from ownership changes prior to, or in connection with, their acquisition by us. Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOLs and tax credits of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. Our existing NOLs and tax credits may be subject to limitations arising from previous ownership changes, and future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, potentially further limiting our ability to utilize our NOLs and tax credits. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs and tax credits disclosed in our financial statements to offset future income. This may result in a substantial increase to income tax expense in future periods. 16 Table of Contents We Face Intense Competition from Other Software Companies, Which Could Make it Difficult to Compete Successfully Our market is intensely competitive. Our customers’ requirements and the technology available to satisfy those requirements continually change. We expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, including competition resulting from consolidations in the software industry. Our principal competitors include: in-house development efforts by potential customers or partners; other vendors of software that directly address elements of Web-based applications; and developers of software that address only certain technology components of Web-based applications (e.g., content management, portal management, document management, process, collaboration, integration or analytics). In addition, we face increased competition from large companies that includes capabilities similar to our software in larger integrated product offerings. Many of these companies have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Many of these companies can also leverage extensive customer bases and adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. Potential competitors may bundle or license their products in a manner that may discourage users from purchasing our products. In addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Competitive pressures may make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers and may require us to reduce the price of our software. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. If we fail to compete successfully against current or future competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We Depend on Increased Business from Our Current and New Customers and, if We Fail to Grow Our Customer Base or Generate Repeat Business, Our Operating Results Could Be Harmed If we fail to grow our customer base or generate repeat and expanded business from our current and new customers, our business and operating results would be seriously harmed. Many of our customers initially make a limited purchase of our products and services. Some of these customers may not choose to purchase additional licenses to expand their use of our products. Some of these customers have not yet developed or deployed initial applications based on our products. If these customers do not successfully develop and deploy such initial applications, they may not choose to purchase deployment licenses or additional development licenses. Our business model depends on the expanded use of our products within our customers’ organizations. In addition, as we introduce new versions of our products or new products, our current customers may not require the functionality of our new products and may not ultimately license these products. Because the total amount of maintenance and support fees we receive in any period depends in large part on the size and number of licenses that we have previously sold, any downturn in our software license revenue would negatively impact our future services revenue. In addition, if customers elect not to renew their maintenance agreements, our services revenue could be significantly adversely affected. Our Future Revenue is Dependent Upon Our Ability to Successfully Market Our Existing and Future Products We expect that our future financial performance will depend significantly on revenue from existing and future software products and the related tools that we plan to develop. There are significant risks inherent in a product introduction, such as our Vignette V7 software products. Market acceptance of these and future products will depend on continued market development for Web applications and services and the continued commercial adoption of Vignette V7. We cannot be certain that either will occur. We cannot be certain that our existing or future products will meet customer performance needs or expectations when released or that they will be free of significant software defects or bugs. If our products do not meet customer needs or expectations, for whatever reason, upgrading or enhancing the product could be costly and time-consuming. 17 Table of Contents Our Operating Results May Be Adversely Affected by Small Delays in Customer Orders or Product Implementations Small delays in customer orders or product implementations can cause significant variability in our license revenues and operating results for any particular period. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of products with related services. In certain cases, our revenue recognition policy requires us to substantially complete the implementation of our product before we can recognize software license revenue, and any end-of-quarter delays in product implementation could materially adversely affect operating results for that quarter. To Increase Market Awareness of Our Products and Generate Increased Revenue, We Need to Continue to Strengthen Our Sales and Distribution Capabilities Our direct and indirect sales operations must increase market awareness of our products to generate increased revenue. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in these efforts. Our products and services require a sophisticated sales effort targeted at the senior management of our prospective customers. All new hires will require training and will take time to achieve full productivity. We cannot be certain that our new hires will become as productive as necessary or that we will be able to hire enough qualified individuals or retain existing employees in the future. We plan to expand our relationships with systems integrators and certain third-party resellers to build an indirect influence and sales channel. In addition, we will need to manage potential conflicts between our direct sales force and any third-party reselling efforts. Failure to Maintain the Support of Third-Party Systems Integrators May Limit Our Ability to Penetrate Our Markets A significant portion of our sales are influenced by the recommendations of our products made by systems integrators, consulting firms and other third parties that help develop and deploy Web-based applications for our customers. Losing the support of these third parties may limit our ability to penetrate our markets. These third parties are under no obligation to recommend or support our products. These companies could recommend or give higher priority to the products of other companies or to their own products. A significant shift by these companies toward favoring competing products could negatively affect our license and services revenue. Additionally, these organizations may acquire or distribute software products that compete with our products in future periods. If they become our competitors, this could negatively affect our license and services revenue. Our Lengthy Sales Cycle and Product Implementation Makes It Difficult to Predict Our Quarterly Results We have a long sales cycle because we generally need to educate potential customers regarding the use and benefits of Web-based applications. Our long sales cycle makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales may fall. In addition, since we recognize a portion of our revenue from product sales upon implementation of our product, the timing of product implementation could cause significant variability in our license revenues and operating results for any particular period. The implementation of our products requires a significant commitment of resources by our customers, third-party professional services organizations or our professional services organization, which makes it difficult to predict the quarter when implementation will be completed. We May Be Unable to Adequately Sustain a Profitable Professional Services Organization, Which Could Affect Both Our Operating Results and Our Ability to Assist Our Customers with the Implementation of Our Products Customers that license our software often engage our professional services organization to assist with support, training, consulting and implementation of their Web solutions. We believe that growth in our product sales depends in part on our continuing ability to provide our customers with these services and to educate third-party resellers on how to use our products. 18 Table of Contents Historically, services costs related to professional services have frequently exceeded, or had been substantially equal to, professional services-related revenue. In this current economic climate, we make periodic capacity decisions based on estimates of future sales, anticipated existing customer needs, and general market conditions. Although we expect that our professional services-related revenue will continue to exceed professional services-related costs in future periods, we cannot be certain that this will occur. We generally bill our customers for our services on a time-and-materials basis. However, from time to time we enter into fixed-price contracts for services, and may include terms and conditions that may extend the recognition of revenue for work performed into following quarters. On occasion, the costs of providing the services have exceeded our fees from these contracts and such contracts have negatively impacted our operating results. We May Be Unable to Attract Necessary Third-Party Service Providers, Which Could Affect Our Ability to Provide Sufficient Support, Consulting and Implementation Services for Our Products We are actively supplementing the capabilities of our services organization by contracting with and educating third-party service providers and consultants to also provide these services to our customers. We may not be successful in attracting additional third-party providers or in educating or maintaining the interest of current third-party providers. In addition, these third parties may not devote sufficient resources to these activities to meet customers’ demands to adequately supplement our services. Additionally, these organizations may acquire or distribute software products that compete with our products in future periods. If they become our competitors, this could negatively affect our revenue. To Properly Manage Future Growth, We Need to Continue to Improve Our Operational Systems on a Timely Basis We have experienced periods of rapid expansion and contraction since our inception. Rapid fluctuations place a significant demand on management and operational resources. To manage such fluctuations effectively, we must continue to improve our operational systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis. If we fail to continue to improve these systems, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. We May Be Adversely Affected if We Lose Key Personnel Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of some key technical, sales, managerial, and executive personnel throughout all areas of our business. If we lose one or more of our key employees, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As we transition to an offshore research and development operations model, it is particularly important that our intellectual property is protected and retained during this transfer. In addition, our future success will depend largely on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. In particular, hiring and retaining qualified engineers, skilled solutions providers, and qualified sales representatives is critical to our future. Like other software companies, we face competition for qualified personnel. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel, our growth may be limited. If We are Unable to Meet the Rapid Changes in Software Technology, Our Existing Products Could Become Obsolete The market for our products is marked by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and Internet-related technology enhancements, uncertain product life cycles, changes in customer demands, changes in packaging and combination of existing products and evolving industry standards. We cannot be certain that we will successfully develop and market new products, new product enhancements or new products compliant with present or emerging Internet technology standards. New products based on new technologies, new industry standards or new combinations of existing products as 19 Table of Contents bundled products can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. To succeed, we will need to enhance our current products and develop new products on a timely basis to keep pace with developments related to Internet technology and to satisfy the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our customers. Internet commerce technology, particularly Web-based applications technology, is complex and new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. Any delays in developing and releasing enhanced or new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We Develop Complex Software Products Susceptible to Software Errors or Defects that Could Result in Lost Revenues, or Delayed or Limited Market Acceptance Complex software products such as ours often contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite internal testing and testing by current and potential customers, our current and future products may contain serious defects. Serious defects or errors could result in lost revenues or a delay in market acceptance, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our Product Shipments Could Be Delayed if Third-Party Software Incorporated in Our Products are No Longer Available We integrate third-party software as a component of our software. The third-party software may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. If we cannot maintain positive relationships and licenses to key third-party software, shipments of our products could be delayed or disrupted until equivalent software could be developed or licensed and integrated into our products, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our Business is Based on Our Intellectual Property and We Could Incur Substantial Costs Defending Our Intellectual Property from Infringement or a Claim of Infringement In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We could incur substantial costs to prosecute or defend any such litigation. Although we are not involved in any such litigation that we believe is material to our business, if we become a party to litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property or as a result of an alleged infringement of other’s intellectual property, we may be forced to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms; • redesign those products or services that incorporate such technology; and • refund a pro-rata portion of the original license consideration paid by the customer. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our technology. These legal protections provide only limited protection. If we litigated to enforce our rights, it would be expensive, divert management resources and may not be adequate to protect our business. Anti-Takeover Provisions in Our Corporate Documents and Delaware Law Could Prevent or Delay a Change in Control of Our Company Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. Such provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; • providing for a classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; 20 Table of Contents • requiring super-majority voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our stock incentive plans may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Further, in April 2002, our Board of Directors approved, adopted and entered into a shareholder rights plan referred to as the Plan. The Plan was not adopted in response to any attempt to acquire us, nor were we aware of any such efforts at the time of adoption. The Plan was designed to enable our stockholders to realize the full value of their investment by providing for fair and equal treatment of all stockholders in the event that an unsolicited attempt is made to acquire us. Adoption of the Plan was intended to guard shareholders against abusive and coercive takeover tactics. Under the Plan, stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 6, 2002, received one right to purchase a one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par $0.01 per share, at a price of $300.00 per one one-hundredth, subject to adjustment. The rights were issued as a non-taxable dividend and will expire 10 years from the date of the adoption of the rights Plan, unless earlier redeemed or exchanged. The rights are not immediately exercisable; however, they will become exercisable upon the earlier to occur of (i) the close of business on the tenth day after a public announcement that a person or group has acquired beneficial ownership of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock or (ii) the close of business on the tenth day (or such later date as may be determined by the Board of Directors prior to such time as any person becomes an acquiring person) following the commencement of, or announcement of an intention to make, a tender offer or exchange offer that would result in the beneficial ownership by a person or group of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. If a person or group acquires 15 percent or more of our common stock, then all rights holders except the acquirer will be entitled to acquire our common stock at a significant discount. The intended effect will be to discourage acquisitions of 15 percent or more of our common stock without negotiation with the Board of Directors. Terrorist Activities and Resulting Military and Other Actions Could Adversely Affect Our Business The continued threat of terrorism within the United States and abroad, military action in other countries, and heightened security measures may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world. To the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, a general decrease in corporate spending on information technology, or our inability to effectively market, sell and deploy our software and services, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are unable to predict whether the threat of terrorism or the responses thereto will result in any long-term commercial disruptions or if such activities or responses will have a long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. When We Account for Our Employee Stock Option and Employee Stock Purchase Plans Using the Fair Value Method, Our Operating Results Will be Adversely Affected We are not currently required to record any compensation expense using the fair value method in connection with option grants that have an exercise price at or above fair market value and for shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan. However, new accounting rules will require the Company to record an expense for our stock-based compensation plans using the fair value method beginning in fiscal 2006. If we had accounted for stock-based compensation plans using the fair value method, our income per share for the year ended December 31, 2005 would have been decreased by $0.23 per diluted share of common stock based on the pro-forma calculations as provided in the footnotes to our financial statements. 21 Table of Contents In October 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards123R, Share-Based Payment (“Statement 123R”), which is a proposed amendment to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, (“Statement 123”). Generally, the approach under Statement 123R will require companies to recognize the fair value of share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options and the right to purchase shares under an employee stock purchase plan. We are required to adopt Statement 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The pro forma disclosures previously permitted under Statement 123 will no longer be an alternative to financial statement recognition. See Note 2 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the pro forma net income/(loss) and net income/(loss) per share amounts, for fiscal 2003 through fiscal 2005, as if we had used a fair-value-based method similar to the methods required under Statement 123R to measure compensation expense for employee stock incentive awards. Statement 123R permits adoption using one of two methods: (1) a “modified prospective” method in which compensation cost is recognized beginning on the effective date based on the requirements of Statement 123R for all share-based payments granted after the effective date and based on Statement 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date that remain unvested on the effective date or (2) a “modified retrospective” method which includes the requirements of the modified prospective method, but also permits entities to restate all periods presented or prior interim periods of the year of adoption based on the amounts previously recognized under Statement 123 for purposes of pro forma disclosures. We plan to adopt SFAS 123R using the modified prospective method, under which compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective date (a) based on the requirements of SFAS 123R for all share-based payments granted after the effective date and (b) based on the previous requirements of SFAS 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of SFAS 123R that remain unvested on the effective date. The amounts disclosed within our footnotes are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that will be expensed upon the adoption of SFAS 123R. Compensation expense calculated under SFAS 123R may differ from amounts currently disclosed within our footnotes based on changes in the fair value of our common stock, changes in the number of options granted or the terms of such options, the treatment of tax benefits and changes in interest rates or other factors. Upon adoption of SFAS 123R, we plan to use the Black-Scholes model to value the compensation expense associated with employee stock options and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We expect this standard to have a significant impact on the consolidated statements of operations. Our Financial Statements Could be Impacted by Unauthorized and Improper Actions of Our Personnel Our financial statements could be adversely impacted by our employees’ errant or improper actions. For instance, revenue recognition depends on, among other criteria, the terms negotiated in our contracts with our customers. Our personnel may act outside of their authority and negotiate additional terms without our knowledge. We have implemented policies to prevent and discourage such conduct, but there can be no assurance that such policies will be followed. For instance, in the event that our sales personnel have negotiated terms that do not appear in the contract and of which we are unaware, whether the additional terms are written or oral, we could be prevented from recognizing revenue in accordance with our plans. Furthermore, depending on when we learn of unauthorized actions and the size of transactions involved, we may have to restate our financial statements for a previously reported period, which would seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We Have Incurred Increased Costs in Response to Recently Enacted and Proposed Regulations Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including but not limited to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have caused us to incur increased costs as we evaluate and respond to the resulting requirements. The new rules could make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, and we may incur higher costs to obtain coverage similar to our existing policies. Additionally, we have incurred and expect to incur on an ongoing basis increased accounting, audit and legal fees to assist us assess, implement and comply with such rules. The new and proposed rules could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Software Industry Our Business is Sensitive to the Overall Economic Environment; a Continued Slowdown in Information Technology Spending Could Harm Our Operating Results The primary customers for our products are enterprises seeking to launch or expand Web-based initiatives. A significant downturn in our customers’ markets and in general economic conditions that result in reduced information technology spending budgets would likely result in a decreased demand for our products and services and harm our business. Industry downturns like these have been, and may continue to be, characterized by diminished product demand, erosion of average selling prices, lower than expected revenues and difficulty making collections from existing customers. Our Performance Will Depend on the Market for Enterprise Content Management Software The market for Web-based applications software is rapidly evolving. We expect that we will continue to need intensive marketing and sales efforts to educate prospective customers about the uses and benefits of our products and services. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that a viable market for our products will emerge or be sustainable. Enterprises that have already invested substantial resources in other methods of conducting business may be reluctant or slow to adopt a new approach that may replace, limit or compete with their existing systems. Similarly, individuals have established patterns of purchasing goods and services. They may be reluctant to alter those patterns. They may also resist providing the personal data necessary to support our existing and potential product uses. Any of these factors could inhibit the growth of online business generally and the market’s acceptance of our products and services in particular. There is Substantial Risk that Future Regulations Could Be Enacted that Either Directly Restrict Our Business or Indirectly Impact Our Business by Limiting the Growth of Internet Commerce As Internet commerce evolves, we expect that federal, state or foreign agencies will adopt regulations covering issues such as user privacy, pricing, content and quality of products and services. If enacted, such laws, rules or regulations could limit the market for our products and services, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Although many of these regulations may not apply to our business directly, we expect that laws regulating the solicitation, collection or processing of personal and consumer information could indirectly affect our business. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 prohibits certain types of information and content from being transmitted over the Internet. The prohibition’s scope and the liability associated with a Telecommunications Act violation are currently unsettled. In addition, although substantial portions of the Communications Decency Act were held to be unconstitutional, we cannot be certain that similar legislation will not be enacted and upheld in the future. It is possible that such legislation could expose companies involved in Internet commerce to liability, which could limit the growth of Internet commerce generally. Legislation like the Telecommunications Act and the Communications Decency Act could dampen the growth in Web usage and decrease its acceptance as a communications and commercial medium. The United States government also regulates the export of encryption technology, which our products incorporate. If our export authority is revoked or modified, if our software is unlawfully exported or if the United States government adopts new legislation or regulation restricting export of software and encryption technology, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Current or future export regulations may limit our ability to distribute our software outside the United States. Although we take precautions against unlawful export of our software, we cannot effectively control the unauthorized distribution of software across the Internet. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Securities Markets Our Stock Price May Be Volatile The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and has fluctuated significantly in the past. We believe that it may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations of Internet software companies; • announcements by us of significant contracts, acquisitions, restructurings, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant license transactions; • additions or departures of key personnel; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • large percentage of stock held by a few large shareholders; and • fluctuations in stock market price and volume, which are particularly common among highly volatile securities of Internet and software companies. Our Business May Be Adversely Affected by Class Action Litigation Due to Stock Price Volatility In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We are a party to the securities class action litigation described in Part I, Item 3 – “Legal Proceedings” of this Report. The defense of this litigation described in Part I, Item 3 may increase our expenses and divert our management’s attention and resources, and an adverse outcome could harm our business and results of operations. Additionally, we may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Future securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We May Be Unable to Meet Our Future Capital Requirements Although we expect our cash balances to increase in the near future, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds and we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. Further, if we issue equity securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If we cannot raise funds, if needed, on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We May Need to Raise Additional Capital, Which May Be Dilutive to Our Stockholders We may need to raise additional funds for other purposes and we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. Further, if we issue equity securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If we cannot raise funds, if needed, on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If Our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting Do Not Comply With the Requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Our Business and Stock Price Could Be Adversely Affected Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each year beginning in 2004, and to include a 24 Table of Contents management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports beginning with this Report. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, involving the company have been, or will be, detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Although our management has determined, and our independent registered public accounting firm has attested, that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005, we cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Our Business is Subject to Changing Regulation of Corporate Governance and Public Disclosure That Has Increased Both Our Costs and the Risk of Noncompliance Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities Exchange Commission and NASDAQ, have recently issued new requirements and regulations and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to recent laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our efforts to comply with these new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required, and continues to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 