D. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, operating results, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 4 RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Prospects for companies in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device industry generally may be regarded as uncertain given the research and development nature of the industry and, accordingly, investments in companies such as ours should be regarded as very speculative. Our current focus is on considering our strategic alternatives which also involves high and significant degrees of risk. An investor should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information contained in this annual report. Our activities entail significant risks. In addition to the usual risks associated with a business, the following is a general description of certain significant risk factors which may be applicable to us. The list of risks and uncertainties described below is not an exhaustive list. We may not complete a sale, merger, acquisition, or alternative strategic transaction. We are undertaking a strategic review which may result in a sale, merger, acquisition, or alternative strategic transaction. If we do not complete a sale, merger, acquisition, or alternative strategic transaction, we will have to consider other possibilities which may include, seeking to out-license assets, potential asset divestitures, winding up, dissolution or liquidation of the Company. If we do not complete a sale, merger, acquisition, or alternative strategic transaction, it could result in a further delay and additional expenses to the Company and a further decline in the price of our common shares. We may require additional funds in our business that may be difficult to obtain when needed or on terms acceptable to us. As of November 30, 2008, we had a cash balance of $8.6 million (US$6.9 million) consisting of cash and cash equivalents. As of January 31, 2009, our cash balance was $8.5 million (US$6.8 million). Our share price has not recovered following the announcement of our restructurings and this may negatively impact our ability to obtain financing in the future. Furthermore, while we are currently seeking strategic options to enhance shareholder value, the uncertainty of a successful outcome and/or a lack of a successful outcome will likely negatively impact our ability to obtain financing in the future and may result in a liquidation of the Company. Any future debt financing arrangements we enter into would likely contain restrictive covenants that would impose significant operating and, if any, financial restrictions on us. In order to secure financing, if it is even available, it is likely that we would need to sell additional common shares or financial instruments that are exchangeable for or convertible into common shares. Also, in order to provide incentives to current employees and induce prospective employees and consultants to work for us, we have granted options and intend to offer and issue options to purchase common shares and/or rights exchangeable for or convertible into common shares. We have also issued options and deferred share units to directors of the Company. These activities could result in substantial dilution to all our shareholders. Capital raising activities and dilution associated with such activities could cause our share price to decline. Our share price has been highly volatile and our shares could suffer a further decline in value. The trading price of our common shares has been highly volatile and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the results of our strategic review; • sales of our common shares, including in connection with further financings; • announcements regarding new or existing corporate partnerships; • announcements regarding our listings on the NASDAQ and TSX; • actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; • litigation or threat of litigation; • failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts; • announcements regarding new or existing products or services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; • comments or opinions by securities analysts or members of the medical community; 5 • conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and life science industries; • announcements by us of significant acquisitions, joint ventures, or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel or directors; • economic and other external factors or disasters or crises; • limited daily trading volume; and • developments regarding our patents or other intellectual property or that of our competitors. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for drug development companies, medical device companies, and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been significant volatility in the market prices of securities of life science companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities, and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. There may not be an active, liquid market for our common shares. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common shares will be maintained on the NASDAQ Capital Market (“NASDAQ”) or the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”). Investors may not be able to sell their shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our common shares is not active. We may not meet NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements. Failure to meet the applicable quantitative and/or qualitative maintenance requirements of NASDAQ could result in our common shares being delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. For continued listing, NASDAQ requires, among other things, that listed securities maintain a minimum bid price of not less than US$1.00 per share (the “Minimum Bid Price Rule”). If the bid price falls below the US$1.00 minimum for more than 30 consecutive trading days, we will normally have 180 days to satisfy the US$1.00 minimum bid price, which must be maintained for a period of at least ten trading days in order to regain compliance. In August 2006, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of The NASDAQ Stock Market stating that we were not in compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. On February 9, 2007, we transferred the listing of our common shares from the NASDAQ Global Market to the NASDAQ Capital Market, which provided us with an additional 180-day compliance period with respect to the Minimum Bid Price Rule. On April 17, 2007, we implemented a one-for-ten consolidation of our common shares, which enabled us to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. On April 24, 2008, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that the minimum closing bid price of our common shares had again fallen below US$1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, and therefore, we were not in compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. In accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D), we were provided a compliance period of 180 calendar days, or until October 21, 2008, to regain compliance with this requirement. On October 16, 2008, the NASDAQ issued a notice that it was temporarily suspending the enforcement of the rules requiring a minimum US$1.00 closing bid price. Accordingly, the NASDAQ indicated that it would not take any action to delist any security, including our common shares, for a violation of the Minimum Bid Price Rule during the suspension. The suspension was to remain in effect through January 19, 2009 and the original rules were to be reinstated on January 20, 2009. Subsequently, on December 9, 2008, the NASDAQ extended this suspension. Accordingly, the NASDAQ will not take action to delist any security, including our common shares, for a violation of the Minimum Bid Price Rule during the suspension, which now has been extended until April 20, 2009. If we are unable to comply with the Minimum Bid Price Rule by April 20, 2009, but we meet the NASDAQ Capital Market’s initial listing criteria, other than the initial listing bid price requirement, the NASDAQ will provide us an additional 180 calendar days to meet the minimum bid price requirement. Currently, irrespective of the minimum bid price requirement, we do not meet the initial listing criteria of the NASDAQ Capital Market. Given our recent share price of US$0.15 as of February 24, 2009, it is very unlikely that we will be in compliance with the NASDAQ’s minimum closing bid price by April 20, 2009. If we receive another notice from the NASDAQ that our shares are subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may request a hearing before a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel to review the NASDAQ’s determination. A hearing request will stay the delisting of our common shares, pending the decision of the Panel, allowing our common shares to continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We expect that any discussions with the NASDAQ regarding our plans for regaining compliance will be impacted by the strategic initiatives that we are currently exploring, but there can be no assurance that the Panel will grant a request for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we do not request a hearing, our common shares could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. 6 If delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, our common shares may be eligible for trading on an over-the-counter market in the United States. In the event that we are not able to obtain a listing on another U.S. stock exchange or quotation service for our common shares, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for shareholders to sell their common shares in the United States. Moreover, if we are delisted and obtain a substitute listing for our common shares in the United States, it will likely be on a market with less liquidity, and therefore potentially more price volatility, than The NASDAQ Capital Market. Shareholders may not be able to sell their common shares on any such substitute U.S. market in the quantities, at the times, or at the prices that could potentially be available on a more liquid trading market. As a result of these factors, if our common shares are delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, the price of our common shares is likely to decline. In addition, a decline in the price our common shares will impair our ability to obtain financing in the future. We may not continue to be listed on the TSX. Failure to maintain the applicable listing requirements of the TSX could result in our common shares being delisted from the TSX. The TSX will normally consider the delisting of securities if, in the opinion of the exchange, it appears that the public distribution, price, or trading activity of the securities has been so reduced as to make further dealings in the securities on TSX unwarranted. Specifically, participating securities may be delisted from the TSX if, among other things, the market value of our common shares is less than C$3,000,000 over any period of 30 consecutive trading days. In such circumstances, the TSX may place an issuer under a delisting review pursuant to which we would be reviewed under the TSX’s remedial review process and typically be granted 120 days to comply with all requirements for continued listing. Given the market value of our common shares of $4.5 million, as of February 24, 2009, it is currently unlikely that we will be delisted from the TSX. However, if the market price of our common shares declines further or we are unable to maintain other listing requirements, the TSX could commence a remedial review process that could lead to the delisting of our common shares from the TSX. Further, if we complete a sale, merger, acquisition, or alternative strategic transaction, we will have to consider if the continued listing of our common shares on the TSX is appropriate or possible. If our common shares are no longer listed on the TSX, they may be eligible for listing on the TSX Venture Exchange. In the event that we are not able to maintain a listing for our common shares on the TSX or the TSX Venture Exchange, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for shareholders to sell their common shares in Canada. Moreover, if we are delisted and obtain a substitute listing for our common shares on the TSX Venture Exchange, our common shares will likely have less liquidity and more price volatility than experienced on the TSX. Shareholders may not be able to sell their common shares on any such substitute exchange in the quantities, at the times, or at the prices that could potentially be available on a more liquid trading market. As a result of these factors, if our common shares are delisted from TSX, the price of our common shares is likely to decline. Future issuances of our common shares could adversely affect the trading price of our common shares and could result in substantial dilution to our shareholders. Depending on the outcome of our strategic review, we may need to issue substantial amounts of our common shares in the future. To the extent that the market price of our common shares declines, we will need to issue an increasing number of common shares per dollar of equity investment. On November 14, 2006, we issued 4,319,149 units at a price of US$4.70 per unit. Each unit consisted of one common share, 0.4 of one common share purchase warrant expiring on November 14, 2011 (a “series A warrant”) and 0.1 of one common share purchase warrant expiring on May 14, 2007 (a “series B warrant”). Up to 1,727,659 common shares in aggregate are issuable upon due exercise of the series A warrants at a price of US$6.30 per common share. The series B warrants terminated on May 14, 2007. The placement agent also received 256,000 compensation warrants, which will expire on November 14, 2009, to purchase common shares at US$6.30 per share. 7 On May 24, 2007, we raised US$16 million in gross proceeds through the sale of our common shares at a price of US$3.25. In connection with this offering, we also issued five-year warrants to purchase an additional 3.7 million common shares at an exercise price of US$3.16 per share. Additionally, we issued to the placement agents 295,044 compensation warrants, which will expire on May 24, 2010, to purchase common shares at $US3.81 per share. In addition to common shares issuable in connection with the exercise of the warrants, our investors, employees, and directors hold rights to acquire substantial amounts of our common shares. In order to obtain future financing, it is likely that we will issue additional common shares or financial instruments that are exchangeable for or convertible into common shares. Also, in order to provide incentives to current employees and induce prospective employees and consultants to work for us, we intend to offer and issue options to purchase common shares and/or rights exchangeable for or convertible into common shares. Any future financing will trigger anti-dilution adjustments contained in the warrants that were issued in connection with the senior convertible notes on October 7, 2005. The senior convertible notes were fully repaid in 2007. Future issuances of substantial amounts of our common shares, or the perception that such issuances are likely to occur, could affect prevailing trading prices of our common shares. Future issuances of our common shares could result in substantial dilution to our shareholders. Capital raising activities, if available, and dilution associated with such activities could cause our share price to decline. In addition, the existence of warrants may encourage short selling by market participants. If there are substantial sales of our common shares, the market price of our common shares could decline. Sales of substantial numbers of our common shares could cause a decline in the market price of our common shares. Any sales by existing shareholders or holders of options or warrants may have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital and may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Our strategic alliances are dormant and unlikely to be reinstated. During 2007, we entered into a collaboration agreement (the “Agreement”) with Grupo Ferrer Internacional S.A. (“Ferrer”) to commercialize our Celacade technology for the treatment of chronic heart failure in certain countries of the European Union (“E.U.”) and Latin America. Based on a European sales forecast for Celacade provided to us by Ferrer in the second quarter of 2008, we determined that we could not financially justify maintaining an infrastructure to support E.U. commercialization. As a result, we restructured our organization, which included a discontinuation of operational and financial support for European commercialization. We expect that the Agreement with Ferrer will be terminated in fiscal 2009. To develop a potential secondary point of care for integration of our Celacade technology, we formed a strategic alliance in November 2001 with Quest Diagnostics in the United States on an exclusive basis. The purpose of this alliance was to establish an outpatient delivery model to accommodate patient referrals outside hospital clinics and cardiology practises. We have recently terminated our agreement with Quest. Our failure to have our strategic alliances reinstated could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a development-stage company with a history of losses, we have not recognized any product revenues, and we may never achieve profitability. We have incurred a loss in each year since our inception and have received no cash flow from operations to date. These losses have resulted in decreases in our cash balances, working capital, and shareholders’ equity. The future earnings and cash flow from operations of our Company are highly dependent on the outcome of our ongoing strategic review process. There can be no assurance that we will grow and be profitable. At November 30, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $(397,857) million (US$(321,630) million). We have not generated revenues from the commercialization of any products. Given the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of our strategic review, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate any product revenue or sufficient product revenue to become profitable. 8 We are reliant on our key personnel. The operations of our business are highly dependent upon the participation of our key personnel. The loss of the service of any one of our key personnel may materially affect our ability to operate. There is intense competition for qualified management and skilled employees, and our failure to recruit, train, and retain such employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our intellectual property may not provide meaningful protection for our product candidates. We have filed a number of patent applications in the United States and many other countries relating to our products and processes and we have been issued patents. There can be no assurance that our patent applications will be issued as patents or that any of our issued patents, or any patent that may be issued in the future, will provide us with adequate protection for our products, processes, or technology. The patent positions of biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and medical device companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Therefore, the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and medical device patents cannot be predicted. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and know-how, and no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent trade secrets or know-how. In addition, whether or not our patents are issued, or issued with limited coverage, others may receive patents that contain claims applicable to our products. Our competitors may attempt to circumvent our patents by means of alternative designs and processes. There can be no assurance that any of our patents, or any patents issued to us in the future, will afford meaningful protection against competitors. There can be no assurance that our patents will be held valid or enforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction. The patents of our competitors may impair our ability to do business in a particular area. We also rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate collaborators, employees, consultants, and certain contractors to protect our proprietary technology. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or independently discovered by our competitors. As part of our restructuring plan, we have implemented certain decisions with respect to our intellectual property portfolio resulting in the abandonment of various patents and patent applications. These decisions were based on a qualitative assessments of numerous factors including, but not limited to, our cash resources, development timelines, evolving development plans for our products, evolving importance placed on jurisdictions of lesser economic value, whether the intellectual property was core to a current product or originally filed to protect potential future or alternative versions of a current product, and the life of a patent relative to the potential timeframe for commercialization. As such, we have abandoned a number of patents and patent applications and expect to abandon further patents and patent applications in the foreseeable future. Competition in our industry is intense, and developments by other companies could render our product candidates obsolete. The industry in which we compete is not a static environment, and market share can change rapidly if competing products are introduced. There can be no assurance that we can avoid intense competition from other medical technology companies, pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, universities, government agencies, or research organizations, and from other technological advances that could render our technology uneconomical or obsolete. Many of these organizations have substantially greater financial and/or other resources and may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective or cheaper to use than any that we may develop. These developments could render our products obsolete and uncompetitive, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have any manufacturing capability, and we lack commercial manufacturing experience. The manufacture of our products in our industry involves a number of steps and requires compliance with stringent quality control specifications imposed by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and other regulatory agencies. Moreover, many products can only be manufactured in a facility that has undergone a satisfactory inspection by the FDA and/or other relevant regulatory authorities. For these reasons, we would not be able to locate manufacturing capacity quickly if required. Our inability or reduced capacity to manufacture our products, if required, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 9 We have limited sales, marketing, and distribution experience. We have limited experience in the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical or medical device products. There can be no assurance that if required, we would be able to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with our collaborators, licensees, or others to perform such activities or that such efforts would be successful. If we fail to establish successful marketing and sales capabilities or to make arrangements with third parties, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international business. We may be subject to certain risks that are inherent in an international business. These include: • varying regulatory restrictions on sales of our products to certain markets and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs, customs, duties, and other trade barriers; • difficulties in managing foreign operations and foreign distribution partners; • longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • political risks; • foreign exchange controls that may restrict or prohibit repatriation of funds; • export and import restrictions or prohibitions, and delays from customs brokers or government agencies; • seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Depending on the countries involved, any or all of the foregoing factors could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect. We set goals for and make public statements regarding timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors such as delays in our strategic review process, delays or failures in clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process, and delays in achieving product development, manufacturing, or marketing milestones necessary to commercialize products. There can be no assurance that any clinical trials that are necessary for regulatory approvals will be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions, or receive regulatory approvals. If we fail to achieve one or more of our milestones as planned, the price of our common shares could decline. Our business involves the use of hazardous material, which requires us to comply with environmental regulations. Although we do not currently manufacture products, we have in the past produced limited quantities of such products for our clinical trials. Our research and development processes have involved the controlled storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials and hazardous biological materials. We are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials complied with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, we may still be subject to liabilities associated with the inappropriate handling of such materials. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, or that our business, financial condition, and results of operations will not be materially or adversely affected by current or future environmental laws or regulations. 10 Environmental regulation could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial position. We are subject to a broad range of environmental regulations imposed by federal, state, provincial, and local governmental authorities. Such environmental regulation relates to, among other things, the handling and storage of hazardous materials, the disposal of waste, and the discharge of contaminants into the environment. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental regulation, as a result of the potential existence of unknown environmental issues and frequent changes to environmental regulation and the interpretation and enforcement thereof, there can be no assurance that compliance with environmental regulation or obligations imposed thereunder will not have a material adverse effect on us in the future. We have not paid dividends. We have never paid cash dividends on our common shares and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance further research and the expansion of our business. It may be difficult to obtain and enforce judgments against us because of our Canadian residency. We are governed by the laws of Canada. Most of our directors and officers, as well as some of the experts named in this annual report, are residents of Canada or other jurisdictions outside of the United States and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons may be located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders to effect service of process upon us or such persons within the United States or to realize in the United States on judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States. In addition, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Canada of liabilities predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities law against us, our directors, controlling persons and officers and the experts named in this annual report who are not residents of the United States, in original actions or in actions for enforcements of judgments of U.S. courts. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan. The provisions of such plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common shares, the effect of which may be to deprive our shareholders of a control premium that might otherwise be realized in connection with an acquisition of our common shares. See “Description of Share Capital”. We are likely to be classified as a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. income tax purposes, which could have significant and adverse tax consequences to U.S. investors. We were a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) in our 2008 taxable year, and we believe there is a significant likelihood that we will be classified as a PFIC in our 2009 taxable year and possibly in subsequent years. Our classification as a PFIC could have significant and adverse tax consequences for U.S. holders of our common shares. It may be possible for U.S. holders of common shares to mitigate certain of these consequences by making a “qualified electing fund” election or a mark-to-market election. See “Certain Income Tax Considerations - United States Federal Income Taxation.” Item 