ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This annual report on Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference herein contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “will,” “might,” “would,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “would,” “could,” “should,” “believe,” “intend,” “project,” “forecast,” “target,” “plan,” or “continue” or the negative of these words or other variations or comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, trends and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Some specific risk factors that could impair forward looking statements are set forth below. These risks factors are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may affect our business. Investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K for future periods for updates to these risk factors. Credit market constraints may affect our ability to refinance maturing debt at a reasonable cost. As a result of losses incurred by lenders over the last year, the cost of credit has risen throughout the U.S. economy. Institutions that historically financed investment in commercial real estate directly (through bonds, mortgage loans, or bank financing) or indirectly (through purchases of securitized loans) have curtailed the capital they provide REITs and other real estate investors. For example, the issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities, or CMBS, virtually ceased in 2008. In addition, since May 2008, no REIT has been successful in issuing new unsecured corporate bonds. Credit spreads on secondary trading in previously issued bonds widened out during the year to the highest levels we have observed. Toward the end of 2008, banks withdrew their willingness to extend credit for real estate companies. To the extent bank credit is being extended, loan tenors are shorter, credit spreads are wider, and covenants are more restrictive than in the past. Although traditional mortgage lenders such as life insurance companies remain active in making loans, the loan-to-value ratios they underwrite are more conservative and their loan pricing is higher than in recent years. How long the credit markets will remain constrained is unclear. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $268.6 million of bonds and mortgage debt scheduled to mature in the next two years. If credit constraints persist, we may experience difficulty refinancing these upcoming loan maturities at a reasonable cost or with desired financing alternatives. For example, it may be hard to raise new unsecured financing in the form of additional bank debt or corporate bonds. If we draw under our existing unsecured revolving line of credit to repay maturing debt, our ability to use the line for other uses such as investments will be reduced. If we increase our reliance on mortgage debt, the credit rating agencies that rate our unsecured corporate debt may reduce our investment-grade credit ratings. Alternately, we may need to repay maturing debt with proceeds from the issuance of equity or the sale of assets. In order to repay $176.1 million of bonds that mature on April 15, 2009, we accumulated as of December 31, 2008 a diversified portfolio of $128.4 million of short-term corporate bonds that mature over the next year. Subsequent to year end, we were repaid $47.8 million, leaving $80.6 million of such investments outstanding. Any drop in the marketability of the remaining bonds we own or any defaults by the issuers may have adverse effects on our liquidity. The current recession may make it difficult to lease vacant space or space to be vacated in the future. Our goal is to improve the performance of our properties by re-leasing vacated space. However, in 2008, rapid decreases in consumer confidence and consumer spending led to a deterioration in the businesses of many of our retail tenants and made it difficult to maintain our overall occupancy. While most of our centers are anchored by supermarkets, drug stores or other necessity-oriented retailers, which are less susceptible to economic cycles, other tenants in our centers are impacted by these consumer trends adversely affecting our occupancy and bad debt experience. Our ability to continue to lease or re-lease vacant space in our properties will be affected by these and other factors, including our properties’ locations, current market conditions and covenants found in certain leases restricting the use of other space at our properties. If the economic conditions persist or worsen in 2009, our properties and results of operations could continue to be adversely affected with lower occupancy and higher bad debt expense as tenants fail to pay rent, close their stores or file bankruptcy. Moreover, because many retailers have slowed their growth plans as a result of the prevailing economic climate, demand for retail space has declined, generally reducing the market rental rates for our properties when renewing leases or leasing or re-leasing vacant space. - 5 - - Table of Contents If we are able to re-lease vacated space, there is no assurance that rental rates will be equal to or in excess of current rental rates. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in obtaining new tenants, including brokerage commission fees paid by us in connection with new leases or lease renewals, and the cost of making leasehold improvements. We are dependent upon certain key tenants, and decisions made by these tenants or adverse developments in the business of these tenants could have a negative impact on our financial condition. We own shopping centers which are supported by “anchor” tenants which, due to size, reputation or other factors, are particularly responsible for drawing other tenants and shoppers to our centers. For instance, Publix Super Markets is our largest tenant and accounted for approximately 2.3 million square feet, or approximately 14.4% of our gross leasable area, at December 31, 2008, and approximately $18.1 million, or 10.5%, of our annual minimum rent in 2008. Given the difficult retail environment predicted for 2009, some of our anchor or other tenants may experience a downturn in their businesses that may weaken their financial condition. As a result, tenants may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due or declare bankruptcy. In 2008, several of our national tenants filed for bankruptcy protection. We are subject to the risk that these tenants may be unable to make their lease payments or may decline to extend a lease upon its expiration or may reject the lease in bankruptcy. Any tenant bankruptcies, leasing delays or failures to make rental payments when due could result in the termination of the tenant’s lease and material losses to our business and harm to our operating results. In addition, an anchor tenant may decide that a particular store is unprofitable and close its operations in our center, and, while the tenant may continue to make rental payments, such a failure to occupy its premises could have an adverse effect on the property. A lease termination by an anchor tenant or a failure by that anchor tenant to occupy the premises could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping center if their leases have “co-tenancy” clauses which permit cancellation or rent reduction if an anchor tenant’s lease is terminated or the anchor “goes dark.” Vacated anchor tenant space also tends to adversely affect the entire shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant’s power to draw customers to the center. We cannot provide any assurance that we would be able to quickly re-lease vacant space on favorable terms, if at all. Any of these developments could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We have substantial debt obligations which may reduce our operating performance and put us at a competitive disadvantage. As of December 31, 2008, we had debt and other liabilities outstanding in the aggregate amount of approximately $1.1 billion. Many of our loans require scheduled principal amortization. In addition, our organizational documents do not limit the level or amount of debt that we may incur, nor do we have a policy limiting our debt to any particular level. The amount of our debt outstanding from time to time could have important consequences to our stockholders. For example, it could: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, property acquisitions, redevelopments and other appropriate business opportunities that may arise in the future; · limit our ability to make distributions on our outstanding shares of our common stock, including the payment of dividends required to maintain our status as a REIT; · make it difficult to satisfy our debt service requirements; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the factors that affect the profitability of our business, which may place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt or debt with less restrictive terms; · limit our ability to obtain any additional debt or equity financing we may need in the future for working capital, debt refinancing, capital expenditures, acquisitions, redevelopment or other general corporate purposes or to obtain such financing on favorable terms; and · require us to dedicate increased amounts of our cash flow from operations to payments on our variable rate, unhedged debt if interest rates rise. If our internally generated cash is inadequate to repay our indebtedness upon maturity, then we will be required to repay debt through refinancing or equity offerings. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, potentially upon disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses and might adversely affect our cash available for distribution. If prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates on refinancing, our interest expense would increase without a corresponding increase in our rental rates, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Further, if one of our properties is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, or if we are in default under the related mortgage or deed of trust, such property could be transferred to the mortgagee, or the mortgagee could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of income and asset value. Foreclosure could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements under the Code. - 6 - - Table of Contents Our financial covenants may restrict our operating or acquisition activities, which may harm our financial condition and operating results. Our unsecured revolving credit facility, our outstanding senior unsecured notes and much of our existing mortgage indebtedness contain customary covenants and conditions, including, among others, compliance with various financial ratios and restrictions upon the incurrence of additional indebtedness and liens on our properties. Furthermore, the terms of some of this indebtedness will restrict our ability to consummate transactions that result in a change of control or to otherwise issue equity or debt securities. The existing mortgages also contain customary negative covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. If we were to breach covenants in these debt agreements, the lender could declare a default and require us to repay the debt immediately. If we fail to make such repayment in a timely manner, the lender may be entitled to take possession of any property securing the loan. Increases in interest rates cause our borrowing costs to rise and generally adversely affect the market price of our securities. Of our approximately $1.1 billion of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2008, approximately $136.4 million bears interest at variable interest rates, including $100.0 million of fixed rate borrowings that we have converted to floating rate borrowings through the use of hedging agreements. We also may borrow additional funds at variable interest rates in the future. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense on our variable rate debt and reduce our future earnings and cash flows, which could adversely affect our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations and also could reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our stockholders. Although we may in the future enter into hedging arrangements or other transactions as to a portion of our variable rate debt to limit our exposure to rising interest rates, the amounts we are required to pay under the variable rate debt to which the hedging or similar arrangements relate may increase in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to any of our hedging arrangements. In addition, the market price of our common stock is affected by the annual distribution rate on the shares of our common stock. Increasing market interest rates may lead prospective purchasers of our common stock and other securities to seek alternative investments that offer a higher annual yield which would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock and other securities. Finally, increases in interest rates may have the effect of depressing the market value of retail properties such as ours, including the value of those properties securing our indebtedness. Geographic concentration of our properties makes our business vulnerable to economic downturns in certain regions or to other events, like hurricanes, that disproportionately affect those areas. Approximately 56.5% of our retail property gross leasable area is located in Florida. As a result, economic, real estate and other, general conditions in Florida will significantly affect our revenues and the value of our properties. Business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, declines in real estate values, reduced migration to Florida, changing demographics, increases in insurance costs and real estate taxes and other factors may adversely affect the economic climate in Florida. Any resulting oversupply or reduced demand for retail properties in Florida would adversely affect our operating performance and limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, a significant portion of our retail property gross leasable area is located in coastal areas that are susceptible to the harmful effects of tropical storms, hurricanes and other similar natural disasters. As of December 31, 2008, over 60.9% of the total insured value of our portfolio is located in the State of Florida. In 2005, our properties experienced damage from a total of seven named hurricanes or tropical storms with not all of the storm damages fully insured. While some of these uninsured expenses are recoverable from our tenants, not all of the leases have provisions permitting reimbursement, and, therefore, we must pay the remaining amounts. Moreover, with the increased hurricane activity, the cost of property insurance has risen dramatically. While much of the cost of this insurance is passed on to our tenants as reimbursable property costs, some tenants, particularly national tenants, do not pay a pro rata share of these costs under their leases. Hurricanes and similar storms also disrupt our business and the business of our tenants, which could affect the ability of some tenants to pay rent and may affect the willingness of residents to remain in or move to the affected area. Therefore, as a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, we face demonstrable risks, including higher costs, such as uninsured property losses and higher insurance premiums, and disruptions to our business and the businesses of our tenants. Our insurance coverage on our properties may be inadequate therefore increasing the risks to our business. We currently carry comprehensive insurance on all of our properties, including insurance for liability, fire, flood, rental loss and acts of terrorism. We also currently carry environmental insurance on most of our properties. All of these policies contain coverage limitations. We believe these coverages are of the types and amounts customarily obtained for or by an owner of similar types of real property assets located in the areas where our properties are located. We intend to obtain similar insurance coverage on subsequently acquired properties. - 7 - - Table of Contents The availability of insurance coverage may decrease and the prices for insurance may increase as a consequence of significant losses incurred by the insurance industry. For instance, given the issues facing financial firms in general, including insurance companies, and following the hurricane and other property loss activity in recent years, property insurance costs across our portfolio have increased. In the event of future industry losses, we may be unable to renew or duplicate our current insurance coverage in adequate amounts or at reasonable prices. In addition, insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses from named wind storms or due to terrorist acts and toxic mold, or, if offered, the expense of obtaining these types of insurance may not be justified. We, therefore, may cease to have insurance coverage against certain types of losses and/or there may be decreases in the limits of insurance available. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, but still remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot guarantee that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. If any of our properties were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. Also, due to inflation, changes in codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, it may not be feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a building after it has been damaged or destroyed or the proceeds could be insufficient. Events such as these could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations, including distributions to our stockholders. We may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. Also, there are limitations under federal income tax laws applicable to real estate and to REITs in particular that may limit our ability to sell our assets. We may not be able to alter our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Our inability to respond quickly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our stockholders. The federal income tax provisions applicable to REITs provide that any gain realized by a REIT on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a “prohibited transaction” that is subject to a 100% penalty tax. Under current law, unless a sale of real property qualifies for a safe harbor, the question of whether the sale of a property constitutes the sale of property held primarily for sale to customers is generally a question of the facts and circumstances regarding a particular transaction. We intend to hold our properties for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning properties and to make occasional sales as are consistent with our investment objectives. We do not intend to engage in prohibited transactions. We cannot assure you, however, that we will only make sales that satisfy the requirements of the safe harbors or that the IRS will not successfully assert that one or more of our sales are prohibited transactions. Our development and redevelopment activities are inherently risky and may not yield anticipated returns, which would harm our operating results and reduce funds available for distributions to stockholders. An important component of our growth strategy is the redevelopment of properties within our portfolio and the development of new shopping centers. At December 31, 2008, we had invested an aggregate of approximately $55.0 million in these development or redevelopment projects at various stages of completion and anticipate that these projects will require an additional $11.7 million to complete, based on our current plans and estimates. These developments and redevelopments may not be as successful as currently expected. Expansion, renovation and development projects entail the following considerable risks: · significant time lag between commencement and completion subjects us to greater risks due to fluctuation in the general economy; · failure or inability to obtain construction or permanent financing on favorable terms; · expenditure of money and time on projects that may never be completed; · inability to achieve projected rental rates or anticipated pace of lease-up; · higher-than-estimated construction costs, including labor and material costs; and · possible delay in completion of the project because of a number of factors, including weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receipt of zoning or other regulatory approvals, or man-made or natural disasters (such as fires, hurricanes, earthquakes or floods). - 8 - - Table of Contents While our policies with respect to expansion, renovation and development activities are intended to limit some of the risks otherwise associated with such activities, such as initiating construction only after securing commitments from anchor tenants, we will nevertheless be subject to risks that the construction costs of a property, due to factors such as cost overruns, design changes and timing delays arising from a lack of availability of materials and labor, weather conditions and other factors outside of our control, as well as financing costs, may exceed original estimates, possibly making the associated investment unprofitable. Significant changes in economic condition could adversely affect prospective tenants and our ability to lease newly developed and redeveloped properties. Any substantial unanticipated delays or expenses could adversely affect the investment returns from these redevelopment projects and harm our operating results. Future acquisitions may not yield the returns expected, may result in disruptions to our business, may strain management resources and may result in stockholder dilution. Our investing strategy and our market selection process may not ultimately be successful and may not provide positive returns on our investment. The acquisition of properties or portfolios of properties entails risks that include the following, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations: · we may not be able to identify suitable properties to acquire or may be unable to complete the acquisition of the properties we identify; · we may not be able to integrate any acquisitions into our existing operations successfully; · properties we acquire may fail to achieve within the time frames we project the occupancy or rental rates we project at the time we make the decision to acquire, which may result in the properties’ failure to achieve the returns we projected; · our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs; and · our investigation of a property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representations we may receive from the seller of such building or property, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the property or increase our acquisition cost. If we acquire a business, we will be required to integrate the operations, personnel and accounting and information systems of the acquired business and train, retain and motivate any key personnel from the acquired business. In addition, acquisitions of or investments in companies may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention away from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with our current tenants and employees. The issuance of equity or debt securities in connection with any acquisition or investment could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. Our ability to grow will be limited if we cannot obtain additional capital. Our growth strategy is focused on the redevelopment of properties we already own and the acquisition and development of additional properties. We believe that it will be difficult to fund our expected growth with cash from operating activities because, in addition to other requirements, we are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (excluding net capital gains) each year to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. As a result, we must rely primarily upon the availability of debt or equity capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. The debt could include mortgage loans from third parties or the sale of debt securities. Equity capital could include shares of our common stock or preferred stock. We cannot guarantee that additional financing, refinancing or other capital will be available in the amounts we desire or on favorable terms. Our access to debt or equity capital depends on a number of factors, including the general availability of credit in the capital markets, the market’s perception of our growth potential, our ability to pay dividends, our financial condition, our credit rating and our current and potential future earnings. Depending on the outcome of these factors, we could experience delay or difficulty in implementing our growth strategy on satisfactory terms, or we may be unable to implement this strategy at all. Competition for the acquisition of assets and the leasing of properties may impede our ability to make, or may increase the cost of, these acquisitions and may impair our future income. Numerous commercial developers and real estate companies compete with us in seeking tenants for our existing properties and properties for acquisition. This competition may: · reduce properties available for acquisition; · increase the cost of properties available for acquisition; · reduce the rate of return on these properties; - 9 - - Table of Contents · reduce rents payable to us; · interfere with our ability to attract and retain tenants; · lead to increased vacancy rates at our properties; and · adversely affect our ability to minimize expenses of operation. In addition, tenants and potential acquisition targets may find competitors to be more attractive because they may have greater resources, broader geographic diversity, may be willing to pay more or offer greater lease incentives or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In particular, larger REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. These competitive factors may adversely affect our profitability, and our stockholders may experience a lower return on their investment. We may be subjected to liability for environmental contamination which might have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As an owner and operator of real estate and real estate-related facilities, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances present at, on, under, in or released from our properties, as well as for governmental fines and damages for injuries to persons and property. We may be liable without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the environmental contamination and with respect to properties we have acquired, whether the contamination occurred before or after the acquisition. We have several properties in our portfolio that will require or are currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation. The presence of contamination or the failure to properly remediate contamination at any of our properties may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease those properties or to borrow funds by using those properties as collateral. The costs or liabilities could exceed the value of the affected real estate. Although we have environmental insurance policies covering most of our properties, there is no assurance that these policies will cover any or all of the potential losses or damages from environmental contamination; therefore, any liability, fine or damage could directly impact our financial results. We may experience adverse consequences in the event we fail to qualify as a REIT. Although we believe that we are organized and have operated so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code since our REIT election in 1995, no assurance can be given that we have qualified or will remain so qualified. In addition, no assurance can be given that new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for which not infrequently there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. These provisions include requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding common stock, the nature of our assets, the nature and sources of our income, and the amount of our distributions to our stockholders. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources. Satisfying this requirement could be difficult, for example, if defaults by tenants were to reduce the amount of income from qualifying rents. In addition, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains. Under new procedures adopted in 2008 and 2009, REITs are permitted to pay the distributions required to qualify as a REIT under the Code in their own stock, rather than cash, subject to certain limitations. To the extent we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions (or deemed distributions) in any year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income for that year, 95% of our capital gain net earnings for that year and 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the distribution provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Although we anticipate that our cash flows from operating activities will be sufficient to enable us to pay our operating expenses and meet distribution requirements, no assurance can be given in this regard. We may be required to borrow money or sell assets to distribute enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax. If we fail to qualify as a REIT: · we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing taxable income, and therefore our taxable income or alternative minimum taxable income so computed would be fully subject to the regular federal income tax or the federal alternative minimum tax; · unless we are entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT again for the four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified; - 10 - - Table of Contents · we could be required to pay significant income taxes, which would substantially reduce the funds available for investment or for distribution to our stockholders for each year in which we failed or were not permitted to qualify; and · the tax laws would no longer require us to pay any distributions to our stockholders. We are subject to other tax liabilities. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we are subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income and property that could reduce operating cash flow. For example, we will pay tax on certain types of income that are not distributed, and will be subject to a 100% excise tax on transactions with a TRS that are not conducted on an arms-length basis. In addition, our TRSs are subject to foreign, federal, state and local taxes. Our Chairman of the Board and his affiliates are beneficial owners of approximately 57.1% of our common stock and exercise significant control over our company and may delay, defer or prevent us from taking actions that would be beneficial to our other stockholders. Chaim Katzman, the chairman of our board of directors and our largest stockholder, and his affiliates beneficially own approximately 57.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and, as a result of a stockholders’ agreement with other of our stockholders, have voting power over almost 63.8% of our outstanding shares with respect to the election of directors. Accordingly, Mr. Katzman is able to exercise significant control over the outcome of substantially all matters required to be submitted to our stockholders for approval, including decisions relating to the election of our board of directors and the determination of our day-to-day corporate and management policies. In addition, Mr. Katzman is able to exercise significant control over the outcome of any proposed merger or consolidation of our company which, under our charter, requires the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Mr. Katzman’s ownership interest in our company may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire control of our company which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several of our controlling stockholders have pledged their shares of our stock as collateral under bank loans, foreclosure and disposition of which could have a negative impact on our stock price. Several of our affiliated stockholders that beneficially own a significant interest in our company, including Gazit-Globe, Ltd. and related entities, have pledged a substantial portion of our stock that they own to secure loans made to them by commercial banks. If a stockholder defaults on any of its obligations under these pledge agreements or the related loan documents, these banks may have the right to sell the pledged shares in one or more public or private sales that could cause our stock price to decline. Many of the occurrences that could result in a foreclosure of the pledged shares are out of our control and are unrelated to our operations. Some of the occurrences that may constitute such an event of default include: · the stockholder’s failure to make a payment of principal or interest when due; · a reduction in the dividend we pay on our common stock; · the occurrence of another default that would entitle any of the stockholder’s other creditors to accelerate payment of any debts and obligations owed to them by the stockholder; · if the bank, in its absolute discretion, deems that a change has occurred in the condition of the stockholder to which the bank has not given its prior written consent; and · if, in the opinion of the bank, the value of the pledged shares shall be reduced or is likely to be reduced (for example, the price of our common stock declines). In addition, because so many shares are pledged to secure loans, the occurrence of an event of default could result in a sale of pledged shares that would trigger a change of control of our company, even when such a change may not be in the best interests of our stockholders or may violate covenants of certain loan agreements. To maintain our status as a REIT, we limit the amount of shares any one stockholder can own. The Internal Revenue Code imposes certain limitations on the ownership of the stock of a REIT. For example, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code). To protect our REIT status, our charter prohibits any one stockholder from owning (actually or constructively) more than 9.9% in value of the outstanding shares of common stock or of any class or series of outstanding preferred stock. The constructive ownership rules are complex. Shares of our capital stock owned, actually or constructively, by a group of related individuals and/or entities may be treated as constructively owned by one of those individuals or entities. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.9% in value of the outstanding common stock and/or a class or series of preferred stock (or the acquisition of an interest in an entity that owns common stock or preferred stock) by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity (or another) to own constructively more than 9.9% in value of the outstanding stock. If that happened, either the transfer or ownership would be void or the shares would be transferred to a charitable trust and then sold to someone who can own those shares without violating the 9.9% ownership limit. Our board of directors may waive these restrictions on a case-by-case basis, and it has in the past done so, including for the affiliates of Chaim Katzman, our chairman of the board. The 9.9% ownership restrictions may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the stockholders’ best interest. - 11 - - Table of Contents We cannot assure you we will continue to pay dividends at historical rates. Our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common stock at historical rates or to increase our common stock dividend rate will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following: · our financial condition and results of future operations; · the performance of lease terms by tenants; · the terms of our loan covenants; and · our ability to acquire, finance, develop or redevelop and lease additional properties at attractive rates. If we do not maintain or increase the dividend rate on our common stock, there could be an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and debt securities. Conversely, the payment of dividends on our common stock may be subject to payment in full of the interest on debt we may owe. Under newly adopted procedures of the Internal Revenue Service, REITs are permitted to pay the distributions required to qualify as a REIT under the Code in common stock for two years ended December 31, 2009 . If we were to pay all or a portion of our dividends in stock, there could be an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our organizational documents contain provisions which may discourage the takeover of our company, may make removal of our management more difficult and may depress our stock price. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect and inhibit a change in our management. As a result, these provisions could prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares of common stock above the prevailing market prices. These provisions include: · the REIT ownership limit described above; · the ability to issue preferred stock with the powers, preferences or rights determined by our board of directors; · special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, the president or by the board of directors; · advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals; · the absence of cumulative voting rights; and · provisions relating to the removal of incumbent directors. Finally, Maryland law also contains several statutes that restrict mergers and other business combinations with an interested stockholder or that may otherwise have the effect of preventing or delaying a change of control. Changes in taxation of corporate dividends may adversely affect the value of our common stock. The maximum marginal rate of tax payable by a domestic non-corporate taxpayer on a dividend received from a regular “C” corporation in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2011 is 15%, as opposed to the marginal tax rates up to 35% that apply to ordinary income. The reduced tax rate, however, does not apply to dividends paid to domestic non-corporate taxpayers by a REIT, except for certain limited amounts. Although the distributed earnings of a REIT are generally subject to less total federal income tax than are the distributed earnings of a non-REIT “C” corporation which are distributed to stockholders net of corporate-level income tax, domestic non-corporate investors could view the stock of regular “C” corporations as more attractive relative to the stock of a REIT because the dividends from regular “C” corporations are taxed at a lower stated tax rate while distributions from REITs (other than distributions designated as capital gain dividends or returns of capital or the limited amounts of dividends that qualify for the 15% rate) are generally taxed at the same rate as the individual’s other ordinary income. That result could continue to be the case if legislation were to extend the 15% tax rate to taxable years starting after December 31, 2010. No legislation, however, is currently pending in Congress to extend the 15% tax rate on dividends. - 12 - - Table of Contents Foreign stockholders may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain recognized on a disposition of our common stock if we do not qualify as a “domestically controlled” REIT. A foreign person disposing of a U.S. real property interest, including shares of a U.S. corporation whose assets consist principally of U.S. real property interests, is generally subject to U.S. federal income tax on any gain recognized on the disposition. This tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a REIT if the REIT is “domestically controlled.” A REIT is domestically controlled if at all times during a specified testing period less than 50% in value of its stock was held directly or indirectly by non-U.S. persons. We cannot assure our stockholders that we will qualify as a domestically controlled REIT. If we were to fail to so qualify, gain recognized by a foreign stockholder on a disposition of our common stock would be subject to U.S. federal income tax unless our common stock was traded on an established securities market and the foreign stockholder did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 5% of our outstanding common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 13 - - Table of Contents 