Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS The following factors as well as other information contained in this report should be considered in making any investment decision related to our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Sales of our products depend on the availability and extent of government funding for public school reading intervention purchases, which is variable and outside the control of both us and our direct customers. If such funding becomes less available, our public school customers may be unable to purchase our products and services on a scale or at prices that we anticipate, which would materially and adversely impact our revenues and net income. United States public schools are funded primarily through state and local tax revenues, which are devoted primarily to school building costs, teacher salaries and general operating expenses. Public schools also receive funding from the federal government through a variety of federal programs, many of which target children who are poor and/or are struggling academically. Federal funds typically are restricted to specified uses. The funding for a substantial portion of our K-12 sales typically comes from federal sources, in particular IDEA (special education) and Title I funding. The amount of this funding varies from time to time, as do the rules governing the use of this funding. The federal budget deficit and competing federal priorities could adversely impact the ongoing level of federal education funding. The temporary additional American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) education funding expired in 2011. There has been much recent discussion, and the administration has granted 34 states and the District of Columbia waivers from certain requirements, but there has been no legislative agreement about changes to the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001. A cutback in federal education funding or a change in the funding rules to allow general rather than restricted uses of federal funding could have a materially adverse impact on our revenue. In August 2011, President Obama signed the Budget Control Act of 2011, which provided for both an increase in the federal government's borrowing authority and reductions in spending. Under the Budget Control Act of 2011, Congress was required to develop legislation to achieve further deficit reduction. Legislation passed in early January 2013 averting the “fiscal cliff” merely postponed the deficit reduction requirements, and Congress subsequently failed to achieve the required level of deficit reduction. As a result, automatic reductions in spending across-the-board (also known as “sequestration”) became effective on March 1, 2013. As a result of this sequestration, it is expected that funding for federal education programs will be cut by approximately 5.1% across-the-board unless Congress passes retroactive legislation reversing the impact of sequestration. The National Education Association estimates that these cuts will reduce Title I funding by $740 million and IDEA special education funding by $632 million in the 2013-14 school year. This or any other action or inaction by Congress that significantly reduces federal education funding, whether through across-the-board funding cuts or otherwise, would have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. State education funding continues to be significantly impacted by state budget difficulties. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, in the 2012-2013 school year, elementary and high schools in approximately half of the states are receiving less state funding than in the prior school year, and in approximately 35 states, school funding now stands below 2008 levels. These reductions have resulted in teacher layoffs, program restrictions and overall expense reductions. While education spending remains an important priority for states, it faces competition from demands for, among other things, relief for the unemployed and homeowners and rising healthcare costs. Continued pressure on state budgets and state education funding could have a materially adverse impact on our revenue. Our cash flow is highly variable and may not be sufficient to meet all of our objectives. We need additional financing in the future in order to continue our operations and as a result, there is uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our cash and cash equivalents were $2.3 million at December 31, 2012, compared to cash and cash equivalents of $5.9 million at December 31, 2011. We have used cash from operations of $10.5 million, $7.2 million and $4.2 million in the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our existing cash and cash equivalents, expected cash flow from operations and the funding availability from our line of credit, may not provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and capital expenditures for the next 12 months. As such, there is uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm has concluded that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, and accordingly, it has included an explanatory paragraph to that effect in its report on our December 31, 2012 consolidated financial statements. In February 2012, we amended our credit line with Comerica, which has provided us with a line of credit since 2004. Our amended line of credit has a limit of $4.8 million, net of an outstanding letter of credit of $0.2 million and expires on December 31, 2013. Borrowings under the amended line of credit are subject to reporting covenants requiring the provision of financial statements to Comerica and ongoing compliance with certain financial covenants. On August 14, 2012, we amended the financial covenants in 7 order align them with our then current operating plan. The amended covenants require us to maintain a specified minimum adjusted quick ratio, to achieve certain levels of booked sales and to maintain a cash balance of at least $2.0 million. The required levels for the quick ratio and booked sales vary over the term of the agreement and if we do not comply with the covenants, we risk being unable to borrow under the line of credit. Even if we remain in compliance, a provision in the line of credit entitles Comerica to prevent us from borrowing or request that any outstanding borrowings be repaid at any time, regardless of whether covenants are met. Historically, our cash flows from operations have been worse in the first half of the year than in the second half. This pattern results largely from our seasonally low sales in the first and fourth calendar quarters, which reflects our industry pattern, and the time needed to collect on sales. Because of the seasonality of our booked sales, we may have to borrow from our line of credit. Our cash reserves and the cash available under the line of credit, if any, may be inadequate to meet our needs. As of December 31, 2012, we had $0.8 million outstanding on the line of credit, and we were in compliance with all applicable covenants. However, during the months ending January 31, 2013 and February 28, 2013, we were not in compliance. On March 1, 2013, we received a certificate from Comerica waiving the covenant violation for the period ending January 31, 2013. We have requested a waiver for the period ending February 28, 2013, which if Comerica grants, would likely be included as part of a third amendment we are currently negotiating with Comerica to our line of credit. There is no assurance that Comerica will grant us a waiver for the period ending February 28, 2013 or, if they do, that they will grant us any waivers in the future should we again fail to meet any covenant. To obtain additional capital, we are actively working on a subordinated debt financing with a group of our current investors to provide needed working capital. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to secure the subordinated debt or any other debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we are actively working to amend our line of credit with Comerica to align certain of the financial covenants with our current forecast. If we are unable to secure the subordinated debt or other additional financing, it is unlikely that Comerica will amend our agreement for our line of credit. This would make it very unlikely that we would be able to comply with the current financial covenants in our agreement with Comerica. Without access to our line of credit or other additional sources of financing, we would be required to further reduce expenses, or to sell assets. Reducing our expenses by an amount sufficient to meet our liquidity needs would adversely affect our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure additional debt or equity financing or sell assets on acceptable terms, if at all, and failure to do so could cause us to cease operations. In addition, raising additional equity financing could result in substantial dilution of our current equity holders and in the net tangible book value per share of such holdings. Our sales cycle has tended to be long and somewhat unpredictable, which may result in delayed or lost sales, materially and adversely impacting our revenue and profitability. More than 83% of our 2012 booked sales came from the K-12 market in the U.S. and Canada. In that market we have historically depended on a relatively small number of large transactions for a significant part of our sales. These types of sales require multiple levels of approval in a political environment, resulting in a time-consuming sales cycle that can be difficult to predict, particularly in a tight funding environment. Therefore, we may devote significant time and energy to a particular customer sale over the course of many months, and then not make the sale when expected or at all. In 2012, we closed 25 transactions in excess of $100,000 compared to 63 in 2011. We may not be successful in executing our transition to a new business model. We are completing the development of our new on-demand offerings to transition the business away from our historic sales model and to make us less dependent on large U.S. K-12 transactions. In 2011, we began selling our flagship Fast ForWord on-demand, and in January 2012 and June 2012, we launched Fast ForWord and Reading Assistant, respectively, on our improved MySciLEARN on-demand platform. We expect our on-demand offerings to allow us to better address the international, consumer and virtual school markets, as well as the U.S. K-12 market we now principally serve and to allow us to significantly increase the number of smaller, more predictable transactions and recurring revenue. In order to successfully accomplish this transition, we need to rapidly increase our transaction volume, sell to and achieve acceptance with new types of customers, and complete our product development in a timely manner. We may find our marketing and sales efforts in this market less effective or more expensive than we have planned. If we fail to achieve the level of market acceptance that we expect, we may be unable to achieve our planned level of sales and revenue. It is difficult to accurately forecast our future financial results. This may cause us to fail to achieve the financial performance anticipated by investors and financial analysts, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Our revenue and results of operations are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter and from year to year. In 2012, we had a net loss of $9.7 million compared to a net loss of $6.5 million in 2011 and a net loss of $9.7 million in 2010 (which included a non-cash impairment charge of $3.9 million) . In the past, our sales strategy has primarily emphasized district-level, multi-site transactions. While we continue to sell at the district level, our new SaaS technology and pricing enable us to expand our selling 8 efforts to building-level principals and lead teachers for smaller initial purchases. We expect that this will make us less dependent on large unpredictable sales, but this is a new model for us, and the speed and extent of our transition is uncertain. Our expense levels are based on our expectations of future revenue and are primarily fixed in the short term. We may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results. Failure to achieve the financial results expected by investors and financial analysts in a given quarter could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. To grow our K-12 business, we need to increase acceptance of our products among K-12 education purchasers. Failure to do so would materially and adversely impact our growth prospects.. Our Fast ForWord products use an approach that differs from the approaches that schools have traditionally used to address reading problems. In particular, our products, which are designed to develop the brain to process more efficiently, are based on neuroscience research and focus on building cognitive skills. These concepts may be unfamiliar to educators. K-12 educational practices are generally slow to change, and it can be difficult to convince educators of the value of a substantially different approach. In order to obtain the best student results from using our product, schools must follow a recommended protocol for Fast ForWord use, which requires at least 30 minutes per day out of a limited and already crowded school day. We also have a recommended protocol for Reading Assistant, which ranges from 20 to 40 minutes a day, depending on grade level, for at least three days per week. Our recommendation that schools follow a prescribed protocol in using our products may limit the number of schools willing to purchase from us. In addition, if our products are not used in accordance with the protocol, they may not produce the expected student results, which may lead to customer dissatisfaction and decreased revenue. Our Reading Assistant product currently has a more limited content selection than many educators expect. Adding content requires time and investment, and we may be unable to add content rapidly enough to attract new customers or retain existing customers. Our products are generally implemented in a computer lab with a lab coach or teacher rather than in the classroom with the students’ regular classroom teachers. To reach a broader group of customers, encourage additional sales from existing customers and improve student achievement results, we need to better engage classroom teachers in the products’ implementation, in an effective and efficient manner. If we are unable to convince our market of the value of our significantly different approach and otherwise overcome the challenges identified above, our growth prospects could be materially and adversely impacted. If we determine that our goodwill is impaired, we would be required to take a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, such as core technology, related to our acquisition of the Soliloquy product line in January 2008, which we periodically evaluate for impairment. As of December 31, 2012, the acquired intangible assets have been fully amortized and we had a balance of $4.6 million of goodwill. Significant judgments are required to evaluate goodwill for impairment, including estimating future cash flows, projecting future sales, forecasting industry trends and market conditions, and making other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect our impairment determinations, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations. Concentration of our sales in the K-12 market exposes our business to risks specific to that market. More than 83% of our 2012 booked sales came from the K-12 market in the United States and Canada. Because of the concentration of our sales in this market, we are particularly exposed to its risks. For example, the K-12 market is characterized by its dependence on federal funding and state and local tax revenues; a political environment, particularly when large transactions are involved; and a generally conservative approach to change. All of these attributes, particularly in the current economic and political environment, can result in a time-consuming and unpredictable sales cycle for large transactions. We rely on studies of student performance results to demonstrate the effectiveness of our products. If the validity of these studies or the conclusions that we draw from them are challenged, our reputation could be harmed and our business prospects and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We rely heavily on statistical studies of student results on assessments to demonstrate that our products lead to improved student achievement, which involves certain risks. For example, a school may fail to appropriately implement the products or adhere to the 9 product protocol, resulting in a study that does not produce substantial student improvements. In addition, some studies on which we rely may be challenged because the studies use a limited sample size, lack a randomly selected control group, include assistance or participation from us or our scientists, or have other design characteristics that are not optimal. These challengers may assert that these studies are not sufficiently rigorous or free from bias, and may lead to criticism of the validity of the studies and the conclusions that we draw from them. Our sales and marketing efforts, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted if the studies upon which we rely to demonstrate the effectiveness of our products, or the conclusions we draw from those studies, are seen to be insufficient. We may not be able to develop new and improved products and services as needed to address changing market trends or emerging technologies in a timely and cost effective manner. We need to design, develop and introduce new and improved products and services on a cost effective basis and on a timeline that keeps pace with changing market trends and emerging technology developments. We had significant product introductions in 2012, and we are planning additional product improvements in 2013. We may encounter unexpected difficulties in developing new products and improvements that could delay our introduction of new products and services or cause their development to be more costly than planned. Additionally, our product changes may not receive the market acceptance we anticipate. If we fail to develop products and services costs effectively that respond to technology and market developments, we may lose market share and revenues, and our business could materially suffer. If our operations are disrupted due to weaknesses in our technology infrastructure, our business could be harmed. Providing our products and services and conducting our general business operations both substantially rely on computer and network systems. Over the past several years, our computer and network systems became outdated, and we have experienced disruptions in both our customer and internal network services due to hardware failures. While we have taken steps to modernize much of our computer and network systems infrastructure, there are elements that remain outdated. Even with respect to those elements that are reasonably up to date, keeping them up to date requires an ongoing investment of both time and money, and we may have inadequate resources to accomplish this. In addition, our disaster recovery capability, while improved, does not permit us to recover immediately from certain sorts of disasters. We believe that our business is becoming increasingly dependent on our hardware and software infrastructure, and as a result, the reliability of our systems has become increasingly important. If our customer systems are disrupted, we may be required to issue credits, customers may elect not to renew their contracts or not to purchase additional licenses, we may lose sales to potential customers and we may be subject to liability. If our internal systems are disrupted, we may lose productivity and incur delays in product development, sales operations or other functions. If our products contain errors or if customer access to our web-delivered products and services is disrupted, we could lose new sales and be subject to significant liability claims. Because our software products are complex, they may contain undetected errors or defects, known as bugs. Bugs can be detected at any point in a product’s life cycle, but are more common when a new product is introduced or when new versions are released. We expect that, as we have experienced in the past, despite our testing, errors will be found in new products and product enhancements in the future. We launched important product revisions in 2012 and expect additional important launches in 2013. Many of our products and services rely on the World Wide Web in order to function. Unanticipated problems affecting our network systems, third-party facilities, telecommunications or electricity supply could cause interruptions or delays in the delivery of these products. We have experienced problems due to power loss in the past, and we will continue to be exposed to the risk of access failure in the future. If there are significant errors in our products or problems with customer access to our web-delivered products and services, we could be required to issue credits or we could experience delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, diversion of our resources, decreases in expansions or renewals, injury to our reputation, increased service expenses or payment of damages. Our product development office in China exposes us to risks specific to China, including those associated with currency exchange rates, Chinese government regulations and business practices, and intellectual property. We established a wholly-owned subsidiary in Shanghai, China in 2010, which provides us with product development services. Previously, substantially all of our operations were located in the United States, and our sales outside the United States and Canada were made in U.S. Dollars to local distributors. Our Chinese operation conducts its operations in Chinese RMB, and therefore exposes us to the risk of unexpected and possibly sudden increases in expenses caused by shifts in currency exchange rates. In addition, Chinese government regulations and business practices are quite different from those in the U.S., and operating under those regulations and challenges may pose unexpected costs, delays or difficulties. Further, intellectual property protection is not as strong in China as in the U.S., and operating a product development group in China may increase our risk of infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property by others. 10 Claims relating to data collection from our user base may subject us to liabilities and additional expense. Schools and clinicians that use our products frequently use students’ names to register them in our products and enter into our database academic, diagnostic and/or demographic information about the students. In addition, the results of student use of our products are uploaded to our database. We have designed our system to safeguard this personally-identifiable information, but the protection of such information is an area of increasing public concern and significant government regulation, including but not limited to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act. If our privacy protection measures prove to be ineffective, we could be subject to liability claims for unauthorized access to or misuses of personally-identifiable information stored in our database. We may also face additional expenses to analyze and comply with increasing regulation in this area. We may not be able to compete effectively in the education market. The market in which we operate is very competitive. We compete vigorously for the funding available to schools, not only against other software-based reading intervention products but also against print and service-based offerings from other companies and against traditional methods of teaching language and reading. Many of the companies providing these competitive offerings are much larger than we are, are more established in the school market than we are, offer a broader range of products to schools, have already offered more web-based products, and have greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than we do. In addition, although traditional approaches to language and reading are fundamentally different from our approach, the traditional methods are more widely known and accepted and, therefore, represent significant competition for available funds. If we lose key personnel or are unable to hire additional qualified personnel as necessary, we may not be able to achieve our business goals, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results and share price. We depend on the performance of our senior management, sales, marketing, development, research, educational, finance and other administrative personnel with extensive experience in our industry and with our Company. The loss of key personnel could harm our ability to execute our business strategy, which could adversely affect our financial results and share price. During 2012, we reduced our number of full-time equivalent employees from 240 on December 31, 2011 to 140 on December 31, 2012. Reducing our workforce so dramatically has significantly increased the workload and strain on our remaining employees, which may make it more difficult for us to retain our employees or attract new ones. Additionally, these reductions in our workforce may also make it more difficult or impossible for us to effectively manage and operate our business, especially if we experience significant turnover among our current employee base. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to identify, hire, retain and motivate highly skilled employees who are in great demand. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. If we are unable to maintain our access to the intellectual property rights that we license from third parties, our sales and net income will be materially and adversely affected. Our most important products are based on licensed inventions owned by the University of California and Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey. These licensed patents expire in 2014. In 2012, we generated approximately 47% of our booked sales from products that use this licensed technology. The University patents are the earliest and in some ways the broadest of our patents. We have additional patents that we own with later expiration dates that we believe afford substantial continuing patent coverage for the same products. However, once the University patents expire, it may be more difficult to prevent others from marketing similar products. We also have incorporated technology and content licensed from other third parties as part of our products and services. If we were to lose our rights under any of our in-licenses (whether through expiration of our exclusive license period, expiration of the underlying patent’s exclusivity, invalidity or unenforceability of the underlying patents, a breach by us of the terms of the license agreements or otherwise), such a loss of these licensed rights or a requirement that we must re-negotiate these licenses could materially harm our booked sales, our revenue and our net income. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we infringe on the rights of others, we could become subject to significant liabilities, need to seek licenses or lose our rights to sell our products. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on whether we are able to maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. It is possible that our issued patents will be found invalid or will not offer sufficient protection against competitors, that our trademarks will be challenged or infringed, or that our pending patent applications will not result in the issuance of patents. If others are able to develop similar products due to the expiration, unenforceability or invalidity of the underlying patents, the resulting competition could materially harm our sales. The Company historically has not registered its copyrights in the United States, which may make it difficult to collect damages from a third party that may be infringing a Company copyright. 11 In addition, we could become party to patent or trademark infringement claims, litigation or interference proceedings. These proceedings could result from claims that we are violating the rights of others or may be necessary to enforce our own rights. Any such proceedings would result in substantial expense and significant diversion of management effort, and the outcome of any such proceedings cannot be accurately predicted. An adverse determination in such proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture or increase their market share with respect to related technologies. Further, if unauthorized copying or misuse of our products were to occur to a substantial degree, our sales could be adversely affected. Our shares of common stock have been delisted from NASDAQ and we are not listed on any other national securities exchange. It will likely be more difficult for stockholders and investors to sell our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations of the share price of our common stock. Effective October 18, 2012, our common stock was delisted from NASDAQ and our shares of common stock are currently quoted on the OTCMarkets, continuing under the trading symbol “SCIL.” Stocks traded on the over-the-counter markets are typically less liquid than stocks that trade on a national securities exchange. Trading on the over-the-counter market may also negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the liquidity of our common stock may be impaired, not only in the number of shares that are bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, and coverage by security analysts and the news media, if any, of our company. Stockholders may find it difficult to resell their shares of our common stock due to the delisting. The delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ may also result in other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by customers, strategic partners and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest in our common stock and our inability to take advantage of certain exemptions available to listed securities under the Exchange Act and the 1940 Act. Additionally, as a result of the delisting of our shares of common stock from NASDAQ, we are no longer subject to the rules of NASDAQ, including rules related to corporate governance matters such as the circumstances (including but not limited to certain issuances of our securities) in which stockholder approval is required, requirements regarding the independence of our directors and the existence of committees of our board of directors comprised of independent directors. We may not be able to be re-listed on NASDAQ, which could adversely affect trading and liquidity of our common stock. Should we once again satisfy the applicable listing criteria, we would be able to apply for the re-listing of our shares of common stock on NASDAQ. However, there is no assurance that NASDAQ or any other national stock exchange will approve our common stock for listing, as there is no assurance that we will satisfy the criteria for listing or be approved for listing on NASDAQ or any other national stock exchange. Failure to list our shares on a national stock exchange could result in a less liquid market for existing and potential stockholders in which to trade our common stock, which could depress the trading price of our common stock and adversely impact our ability to raise capital in the future. Our securities are subject to “penny stock” rules which may further reduce the liquidity and market price for our Common Stock. Certain securities that are not listed on a national securities exchange, have a trading price below $5.00 and satisfy certain other requirements, such as our common stock, are subject to the SEC’s “penny stock” rules. Under the SEC’s penny stock rules, among other things, broker-dealers may not sell a penny stock to, or effect the purchase of a penny stock by an investor (other than an accredited investor or an “established customer” as defined in Rule 15g-9), unless, prior to executing the transaction, the broker-deal has determined that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the purchaser (and delivers a written statement of such determination to the purchaser), obtained the purchaser’s written agreement to engage in the transaction, provided the purchaser with a written disclosure document regarding certain risks associated with investing in penny stocks and obtained written acknowledgement from the purchaser that the purchaser has receive the required disclosure documents. Broker-dealers may find it difficult to execute transactions in our common stock as a result of the penny stock rules summarized above. These requirements may further reduce the liquidity and trading price of our common stock. The ownership of our common stock is concentrated. At December 31, 2012, Trigran Investments owned approximately 27% of our outstanding stock, Nantahala Capital Management owned approximately 11% of our outstanding stock, Osmium Partners and its affiliates owned approximately 10% of our outstanding stock, Noel G. Moore owned approximately 8% of our outstanding stock, and our executive officers and directors held approximately 11% of the outstanding stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to collectively control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, and may have interests that diverge from those of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also delay, prevent or deter a change in control of the Company. 12 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 