Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes. We are dependent on sales to a relatively small number of customers. Our business is highly dependent on a limited number of OEM customers. For example, sales to Sun accounted for 86% and 82% of our net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. As a result, if our relationships with Sun, NetApp or Fujitsu were disrupted, we would lose substantially all of our anticipated net revenue and our business could be materially harmed. We cannot guarantee that our relationship with Sun, NetApp, Fujitsu or other OEM customers will expand or not otherwise be disrupted. Factors that could influence our relationship with significant OEM customers, including Sun, NetApp and Fujitsu include: • our ability to maintain our products at prices that are competitive with those of other storage system suppliers; • our ability to maintain quality levels for our products sufficient to meet the expectations of our OEM customers; • our ability to produce, ship and deliver a sufficient quantity of our products in a timely manner to meet the needs of our OEM customers; • our ability to continue to develop and launch new products that our OEM customers feel meet their needs and requirements, with respect to cost, timeliness, features, performance and other factors; and • the ability of Sun, NetApp, Fujitsu or our other OEM customers to effectively launch, ramp, ship, sell and market their own products based on our products. Our contracts with our OEM customers do not include minimum purchase requirements and are not exclusive, and we cannot assure you that our relationship with these major customers will not be terminated or will generate significant sales. None of our contracts with our existing OEM customers, including Sun, NetApp and Fujitsu, contain any minimum purchasing commitments and our customers may cancel purchase orders at any time. Further, we do not expect that future contracts with OEM customers, if any, will include any minimum purchasing commitments. 15 Table of Contents Changes in the timing or volume of purchases by our major customers could result in lower revenue. For example, we cannot be certain that our sales to Sun will continue at historical levels. In addition, our existing contracts do not require our OEM customers to purchase our products exclusively or on a preferential basis over the products of any of our competitors. Consequently, our OEM customers may sell the products of our competitors. For example, on April 25, 2006, we were informed by Sun of its decision to move potential future supply of a new, low-end, entry-level storage product to another party. The project had previously been directed solely to Dot Hill. We cannot be certain if, when or to what extent any customer might cancel purchase orders, cease making purchases or elect not to renew the applicable contract upon the expiration of the current term. The decision by any of our OEM customers to cancel purchase orders, cease making purchases or terminate their respective contracts could cause our revenues to decline substantially, and our business and results of operations could be significantly harmed. We may continue to experience losses in the future, and may require additional capital. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we incurred a net loss of $80.8 million. We expect to incur a loss for the year ended December 31, 2007, primarily as a result of high new product production costs pending transition of our supply chain to a lower cost provider and continued investment in research and development. We may be able to mitigate these losses as we transition manufacturing of our 2730 products to a hard-tooled environment, change the mix of product sales and continue to focus on internal cost controls. However, we cannot assure you that we will be profitable in any future period. Our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of December 31, 2006 totaled $99.7 million. We presently expect cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash generated from operations to be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements through at least the next 12 months. However, unanticipated events may require us to raise additional funds. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase substantially as a result of many factors, including: • our plans to maintain and enhance our engineering, research, development and product testing programs; • our ability to achieve acceptable gross profit margins; • the success of our manufacturing strategy; • the success of our sales and marketing efforts; • field failures resulting in product replacements or recalls; • the extent and terms of any development, marketing or other arrangements; • changes in economic, regulatory or competitive conditions; • costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing intellectual property rights; and • costs of litigating and defending law suits. We may not be able to raise additional funds on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any sales of convertible debt or equity securities in the future may have a substantial dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. If we are able to borrow funds, we may be required to grant liens on our assets to the provider of any source of financing or enter into operating, debt service or working capital covenants with any provider of financing that could hinder our ability to operate our business in accordance with our plans. As a result, our ability to further borrow money on a secured basis may be impaired, and we may not be able to issue secured debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to successfully transition manufacturing of our 2730 and successor products from Solectron to MiTAC and SYNNEX could significantly impact our operating results. Our decision to enter into a manufacturing agreement with MiTAC and SYNNEX was partly based upon being able to achieve lower manufacturing and product transformation costs. As this is a new relationship for both companies, we will need to establish new processes, tooling and manufacturing infrastructure. Consequently, there could be a delay in migrating production to MiTAC and SYNNEX which could negatively impact expected gross 16 Table of Contents margins. In addition, if we experience any product quality or manufacturing capacity issues, we could impact revenues from customers as well as satisfaction with our products. In addition, while we do not expect our new relationship with MiTAC and SYNNEX to negatively impact our relationship with Solectron, we cannot be assured that there will not be any strains on the relationship between the two companies that could impact product cost or quality. Our inability to lower product costs or changes in the mix of products we sell may significantly impact our gross margins and operating results. Our gross margins are determined in large part based on our manufacturing costs, our component costs and our ability to bundle RAID controllers, software and low cost value added features into our products, as well as the prices at which we sell our products. If we are unable to lower production costs to be consistent with any decline in selling prices, our gross margins and operating results will suffer. Several of the new products we are currently shipping or expect to begin shipping are at the early launch phase. Until our manufacturing processes for these new products are more fully developed, product costs for these new products will be higher than for more mature products. Our strategy to offset gross margin erosion includes shifting our manufacturing to lower cost suppliers such as MiTAC and SYNNEX and transitioning the manufacturing of our 2730 product to a hard-tooled production environment. We cannot assure you that we will be successful or that we will not experience unforeseen delays in effecting that transition, nor can we be certain as to the magnitude of any cost savings. In addition, as we begin to derive a greater portion of our net revenues from sales of products to customers other than Sun, a greater percentage of products may be sold without RAID controllers, software or other margin enhancing features. All of these factors, together with increasing pricing pressures, could further adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. The market for our products is subject to substantial pricing pressure that may harm our net revenues, gross margins and operating results. Pricing pressures exist in the data storage market and have harmed and may, in the future, continue to harm our net revenues, gross margin and operating results. These pricing pressures are due, in part, to continuing decreases in component prices, such as those of disks and RAID controllers. Decreases in component prices are customarily passed on to customers by storage companies through a continuing decrease in the price of storage hardware systems. In addition, because we expect to continue to make most of our sales to a small number of customers, we are subject to continued pricing pressures from our customers, particularly our OEM customers. Pricing pressures are also due, in part, to the highly competitive nature of our industry, the narrowing of functional differences among competitors, which forces companies to compete more on price rather than product features, and the introduction of new technologies, which leaves older technology more vulnerable to pricing pressures. To the extent we are forced to reduce the prices of our products sold as a result of these pressures, our net revenues, gross margins and operating results will decline. Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations, our period to period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful and we may not meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors. Our revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent upon customer orders in that quarter. We attempt to project future orders based in part on estimates from our OEM customers. For this purpose, arrangements with OEM customers will usually include the estimated future volume requirements of that customer. Our OEM customers’ estimated requirements are not always accurate and we therefore cannot predict our quarterly revenues with any degree of certainty. Moreover, we cannot predict or control our customers’ product launch dates, volume ramps and other factors than may result in substantial fluctuations on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, Sun’s quarterly operating results typically fluctuate downward in the first quarter of their fiscal year when compared with the immediately preceding fourth quarter. It is likely that NetApp’s sales as well as sales of our other new OEM customers of storage products supplied by us will fluctuate on a quarterly or seasonal basis as well, and these fluctuations will affect our financial results. Due to the infancy of the NetApp relationship, we cannot be certain of what affect these fluctuations will have on our quarterly results, if any. 17 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past as shown in the following table and are not a good indicator of future performance (in millions). Quarter Net Revenue Net Income (Loss) First Quarter 2003 $ 30.5 $ (1.5 ) Second Quarter 2003 48.4 2.6 Third Quarter 2003 51.0 4.3 Fourth Quarter 2003 57.5 6.6 First Quarter 2004 47.9 (2.6 ) Second Quarter 2004 69.0 6.7 Third Quarter 2004 57.0 3.5 Fourth Quarter 2004 65.5 4.0 First Quarter 2005 58.0 2.1 Second Quarter 2005 65.9 3.3 Third Quarter 2005 53.6 (1.3 ) Fourth Quarter 2005* 56.3 22.5 First Quarter 2006 58.7 (5.0 ) Second Quarter 2006 66.3 (6.6 ) Third Quarter 2006** 54.8 (60.1 ) Fourth Quarter 2006 59.4 (9.1 ) * Includes deferred tax benefit from reversal of valuation allowance of $25.3 million. ** Includes income tax expense related to establishing valuation allowance of $47.1 million. Accordingly, comparisons of our quarterly results of operations or other period to period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. In addition, the announcement of financial results that fall short of the results anticipated by public market analysts and investors could have an immediate and significant negative effect on the trading price of our common stock in any given period. We may have difficulty predicting future operating results due to both internal and external factors affecting our business and operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results may vary significantly in the future depending on a number of factors, many of which are out of our control, including: • the size, timing, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; • our ability to reduce product costs and improve operating margins; • market acceptance of our new products and product enhancements and new product announcements or introductions by our competitors; • product configuration, mix and quality issues; • changes in pricing by us or our competitors; • the cost of litigation and settlements involving intellectual property and other issues; • deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and product enhancements on a timely basis; • hardware component costs and availability, particularly with respect to hardware components obtained from sole-source providers and major component suppliers such as disk drives, memory and legacy RAID controllers; 18 Table of Contents • our success in creating brand awareness and in expanding our sales and marketing programs; • the level of competition; • our ability to win business with new customers; • potential reductions in inventories held by OEM customers; • slowing sales of the products of our OEM customers; • technological changes in the open systems storage market; • levels of expenditures on research, engineering and product development; • levels of expenditures in our manufacturing and support organization and our ability to manage variances in component costs and inventory levels of components held by our manufacturing partners; • the quality of products being manufactured by Solectron, MiTAC, and SYNNEX; • changes in our business strategies; • personnel changes; and • general economic trends and other factors. Our sales cycle varies substantially and future net revenue in any period may be lower than our historical revenues or forecasts. Our sales are difficult to forecast because the open systems storage market is rapidly evolving and our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer. Customer orders for our products can range in value from a few thousand dollars to over a million dollars. The length of time between initial contact with a potential customer and the sale of our product may last from six to 36 months. This is particularly true during times of economic slowdown, for sales to OEM customers and for the sale and installation of complex solutions. We have shifted our business strategy to focus primarily on OEM customers, with whom sales cycles are generally lengthier, more costly and less certain than direct sales to end-users, or sales through VARs. Additional factors that may extend our sales cycle, particularly orders for new products, include: • the amount of time needed for technical evaluations by customers; • customers’ budget constraints and changes to customers’ budgets during the course of the sales cycle; • customers’ internal review and testing procedures; • our engineering work necessary to integrate a storage solution with a customer’s system; • the complexity of technical challenges that need to be overcome during the development process; • meeting unique customer specifications and requirements; and • difficulties by our customers in integrating our products and technologies into their own products. Our net revenue is difficult for us to predict since it is directly affected by the timing of large orders. Due to the unpredictable timing of customer orders, we may ship products representing a significant portion of our net sales for a quarter during the last month of that quarter. In addition, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future sales. As a result, if sales levels are below expectations, our operating results may be disproportionately affected. We cannot assure you that our sales will not decline in future periods. Our business and operating results may suffer if we encounter significant product defects due to the introduction of our new storage systems. Our new integrated storage systems, as well as our legacy products, may contain undetected errors or failures, which may be discovered after shipment, resulting in a loss of revenue or a loss or delay in market acceptance, which could harm our business. Even if the errors are detected before shipment, such errors could result in the 19 Table of Contents halting of production, the delay of shipments, recovery costs, loss of goodwill, tarnishment of reputation or a substantial decrease in revenue. Our standard warranty provides that if our systems do not function to published specifications, we will repair or replace the defective component or system without charge. Significant warranty costs, particularly those that exceed reserves, could adversely impact our business. In addition, defects in our products could result in our customers claiming property damages, consequential damages, or personal injury, which could also result in our loss of customers and goodwill. Any such claim could distract management’s attention from operating our business and, if successful, result in damage claims against us that might not be covered by our insurance. The loss of one or more suppliers could slow or interrupt the production and sales of our products. Our third party manufacturers rely on other third parties to supply key components of our storage products. Many of these components are available only from limited sources in the quantities and quality we require. From time to time there is significant market demand for disk drives, RAID controllers, memory and other components, and we may experience component shortages, selective supply allocations and increased prices of such components. In such event, we may be required to purchase our components from alternative suppliers, and we cannot be certain that alternative sources of supplies will be available at competitive terms. Even if alternative sources of supply for critical components such as disk drives and controllers become available, incorporating substitute components into our products could delay our ability to deliver our products in a timely manner. For example, we estimate that replacing key components we currently use in our products with those of another supplier, could involve several months of hardware and software modification, which could significantly harm our ability to meet our customers’ orders for our products, damage our customer relationships and result in a loss of sales. Manufacturing and supplier disruptions could harm our business. We rely on third parties to manufacture substantially all of our products. If our agreements with Solectron, MiTAC or SYNNEX are terminated, or if they do not perform their obligations under our agreement or if we otherwise determine to transition manufacturing of our products to another third party manufacturer, it could take several months to establish and qualify alternative manufacturing for our products and we may not be able to fulfill our customers’ orders in a timely manner. Any such transition would also require a significant amount of our management’s attention. Under our OEM agreements with Sun and NetApp, Sun and NetApp have the right to require that we use a third party to manufacture our products. Such an external manufacturer must meet the engineering, qualification and logistics requirements of both Sun and NetApp. If our agreements with Solectron, MiTAC or SYNNEX terminate, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify a suitable alternative manufacturing partner that meets the requirements of our OEM customers and that is cost competitive. Failure to identify a suitable alternative manufacturing partner could impact our customer relationships and our financial condition. With our use of third-party manufacturers, our ability to control the timing of shipments could decrease. Delayed shipment could result in the deferral or cancellation of purchases of our products. Any significant deferral or cancellation of these sales would harm our results of operations in any particular quarter. Net revenue for a period may be lower than predicted if large orders forecasted for that period are delayed or are not realized, which could impact cash flow or result in a decline in our stock price. To the extent we establish a relationship with an alternative manufacturer for our products, we may be able to partially mitigate potential disruptions to our business. We may also suffer manufacturing disruptions as we ramp up manufacturing processes for our new integrated storage systems, which could result in delays in delivery of these products to our OEM customers and adversely effect our results of operations. Additionally, production of our products could be disrupted as a result of geo-political events in Asia and other manufacturing locations. We also generally extend to our customers the warranties provided to us by our suppliers and, accordingly, the majority of our warranty obligations to customers are covered by supplier warranties. For warranty costs not covered by our suppliers, we provide for estimated warranty costs in the period the revenue is recognized. There can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to provide such warranties to us in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Any shortage of disk drives, memory or other components could increase our costs or harm our ability to manufacture and deliver our storage products to our customers in a timely manner. Demand for disk drives and memory has at times surpassed supply, forcing drive and memory manufacturers, including those who supply the components that are integrated into many of our storage products, to manage allocation of their inventory. If such a shortage were prolonged, we may be forced to pay higher prices for disk drives or memory or may be unable to purchase sufficient quantities of these components to meet our customers’ demand for our storage products in a timely manner or at all. Similar circumstances could occur with respect to other necessary components. The market for storage systems is intensely competitive and our results of operations, pricing and business could be harmed if we fail to maintain or expand our market position. The storage market is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapidly changing technology. We compete primarily against independent storage system suppliers, including EMC, Hitachi, Engenio and Xyratex, but also against server companies such as HP, IBM and Dell as well as smaller storage companies. Future competitors could include original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers, some of whom we partner with today. Many of our existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than us. As a result, they may have more advanced technology, larger distribution channels, stronger brand names, better customer service and access to more customers than we do. Other large companies with significant resources could become direct competitors, either through acquiring a competitor or through internal efforts. Additionally, a number of new, privately held companies are currently attempting to enter the storage market, some of which may become significant competitors in the future. Any of these existing or potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products or deliver competitive products at lower prices than us. We could also lose current or future business to any of our suppliers or manufacturers, some of which directly and indirectly compete with us. Currently, we leverage our supply and manufacturing relationships to provide a significant share of our products. Our suppliers and manufacturers are very familiar with the specific attributes of our products and may be able to provide our customers with similar products. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidation and the creation of companies with new, innovative product offerings. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, and may reduce operating margins and create a potential loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the storage systems market include: • performance, features, scalability and reliability; • price; • product breadth; • product availability and quality; • timeliness of new product introductions; and • interoperability and ease of management. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully incorporate these factors into our products and compete against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. If we are unable to develop and market products to compete with the products of competitors, our business will be 21 Table of Contents materially and adversely affected. In addition, if major OEM customers who are also competitors cease purchasing our products in order to concentrate on sales of their own products, our business will be harmed. The open systems storage market is rapidly changing and we may be unable to keep pace with or properly prepare for the effects of those changes. The open systems data storage market in which we operate is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, evolving industry standards and consolidation among our competitors, suppliers and customers. Customer preferences in this market are difficult to predict and changes in those preferences and the introduction of new products by our competitors or us could render our existing products obsolete. Our success will depend upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of customers, to enhance existing products, and to develop and introduce on a timely basis, new competitive products, including new software and hardware, and enhancements to existing software and hardware that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. If we cannot successfully identify, manage, develop, manufacture or market product enhancements or new products, our business will be harmed. In addition, consolidation among our competitors, suppliers and customers may harm our business by increasing the resources of our competitors, reducing the number of suppliers available to us for our product components and increasing competition for customers by reducing the number of customer-purchasing decisions. Our success depends significantly upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and to avoid infringing the intellectual property of third parties, which has already resulted in costly, time-consuming litigation and could result in the inability to offer certain products. We rely primarily on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and common law to protect our intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property from third party discovery and infringement may be insufficient and third parties may independently develop technologies similar to ours, duplicate our products or design around our patents. In addition, third parties may assert infringement claims against us, which would require us to incur substantial license fees, legal fees and other expenses, and distract management from the operations of our business. For example, in 2003, Crossroads filed a lawsuit against us alleging that our products infringe two United States patents assigned to Crossroads. In 2006, we entered into a Settlement and License Agreement with Crossroads that settles the lawsuit and licenses to us the family of patents from which it stemmed. We incurred significant legal expenses in connection with these matters. Other third parties may assert additional infringement claims against us in the future, which would similarly require us to incur substantial license fees, legal fees and other expenses, and distract management from the operations of our business. We expect that providers of storage products will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors increases. In addition to the formal claims brought against us by Crossroads, we receive, from time to time, letters from third parties suggesting that we may require a license from such third parties to manufacture or sell our products. We evaluate all such communications to assess whether to seek a license from the patent owner. We may be required to purchase licenses that could have a material impact on our business, or, we may not be able to obtain the necessary license from a third party on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Consequently, we could be prohibited from marketing products that incorporate the protected technology or incur substantial costs to redesign our products in a manner to avoid infringement of third party intellectual property rights. A significant percentage of our expenses are fixed, and if we fail to generate revenues in associated periods, our operating results will be harmed. Although we have taken a number of steps to reduce operating costs, we may have to take further measures to reduce expenses if revenue declines and we experience greater operating losses or do not achieve a stable net income. A number of factors could preclude us from successfully bringing costs and expenses in line with our net 22 Table of Contents revenue, such as the fact that our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future sales, and that a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed, which limits our ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any shortfalls in net revenue. As a result, if net revenue does not meet our projections, operating results may be negatively affected. We may experience shortfalls in net revenue for various reasons, including: • significant pricing pressures that occur because of declines in selling prices over the life of a product or because of increased competition; • sudden shortages of raw materials or fabrication, test or assembly capacity constraints that lead our suppliers and manufacturers to allocate available supplies or capacity to our competitors, which, in turn, may harm our ability to meet our sales obligations; • the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of customer orders; and • our inability to market products with competitive features, or the inability to market certain products in any form, due to the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which is highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. From time to time, in response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from our outside suppliers, we may order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. This advance ordering has continued and may result in excess inventory levels or unanticipated inventory write-downs due to expected orders that fail to materialize. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our performance depends in significant part on our ability to attract and retain talented senior management and other key personnel. Our key personnel include Dana Kammersgard, our Chief Executive Officer and President, Hanif Jamal, our Chief Financial Officer, Phil Davis, our Executive Vice President of Worldwide Field Operations, James Kuenzel, our Senior Vice President of Engineering, and Robert Finley, our Vice President of Manufacturing Operations. If any of these individuals were to terminate his employment with us, we would be required to locate and hire a suitable replacement. Competition for attracting talented employees in the technology industry is intense. We may be unable to identify suitable replacements for any employees that we lose. In addition, even if we are successful in locating suitable replacements, the time and cost involved in recruiting, hiring, training and integrating new employees, particularly key employees responsible for significant portions of our operations, could harm our business by delaying our production schedule, our research and development efforts, our ability to execute on our business strategy and our client development and marketing efforts. Many of our customer relationships are based on personal relationships between the customer and our executives or sales representatives. If these representatives terminate their employment with us, we may be forced to expend substantial resources to attempt to retain the customers that the sales representatives serviced. Ultimately, if we were unsuccessful in retaining these customers, our net revenue would decline. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates own a significant percentage of our outstanding shares, which could prevent us from being acquired and adversely affect our stock price. As of December 31, 2006, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 9.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock. These individuals may be able to influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of a majority of our directors. The voting power of these stockholders under certain circumstances could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. This concentration of ownership may also make it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain financing. Further, any substantial sale of shares by these individuals could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital in the future through the sale of our equity securities. 23 Table of Contents Protective provisions in our charter and bylaws and the existence of our stockholder rights plan could prevent a takeover which could harm our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain a number of provisions that could impede a takeover or prevent us from being acquired, including, but not limited to, a classified board of directors, the elimination of our stockholders’ ability to take action by written consent and limitations on the ability of our stockholders to remove a director from office without cause. Our board of directors may issue additional shares of common stock or establish one or more classes or series of preferred stock with such designations, relative voting rights, dividend rates, liquidation and other rights, preferences and limitations as determined by our board of directors without stockholder approval. In addition, we adopted a stockholder rights plan in May 2003 that is designed to impede takeover transactions that are not supported by our board of directors. Each of these charter and bylaw provisions and the stockholder rights plan gives our board of directors, acting without stockholder approval, the ability to prevent, or render more difficult or costly, the completion of a takeover transaction that our stockholders might view as being in their best interests. The exercise of outstanding warrants may result in dilution to our stockholders. Dilution of the per share value of our common stock could result from the exercise of outstanding warrants. As of December 31, 2006 there were outstanding warrants to purchase 1,696,081 shares of our common stock. The warrants have exercise prices ranging from $2.97 to $4.50 per share and expire at various dates through March 14, 2008. When the exercise price of the warrants is less than the trading price of our common stock, exercise of the warrants would have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. The possibility of the issuance of shares of our common stock upon exercise of the warrants could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Our stock price may be highly volatile and could decline substantially and unexpectedly, which has resulted in litigation. The trading price of our shares of common stock has been affected by the factors disclosed in this section as well as prevailing economic and financial trends and conditions in the public securities markets. Share prices of companies in technology-related industries, such as ours, tend to exhibit a high degree of volatility. The announcement of financial results that fall short of the results anticipated by the public markets could have an immediate and significant negative effect on the trading price of our shares in any given period. Such shortfalls may result from events that are beyond our immediate control, can be unpredictable and, since a significant proportion of our sales during each fiscal quarter tend to occur in the latter stages of the quarter, may not be discernible until the end of a financial reporting period. These factors may contribute to the volatility of the trading value of our shares regardless of our long-term prospects. The trading price of our shares may also be affected by developments, including reported financial results and fluctuations in trading prices of the shares of other publicly held companies, in our industry generally and our business segment in particular, which may not have any direct relationship with our business or prospects. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. For example, in late January and early February 2006, numerous purported class action complaints were filed against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California. The complaints allege violations of federal securities laws related to alleged inflation in our stock price in connection with various statements and alleged omissions to the public and to the securities markets and declines in our stock price in connection with the restatement of certain of our quarterly financial statements for fiscal year 2004, and seeking damages therefore. In addition, four complaints purporting to be derivative actions have been filed in California state court against certain of our directors and executive officers. These complaints are based on the same facts and circumstances described in the federal class action complaints and generally allege that the named directors and officers breached their fiduciary duties by failing to oversee adequately our financial reporting. Each of the complaints generally seeks an unspecified amount of damages. Securities litigation could result in the expenditure of substantial funds, divert management’s attention and resources, harm our reputation in the industry and the securities markets and reduce our profitability. 24 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock may hurt our market price. A substantial number of shares of our common stock may become available for resale. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at times and prices that we deem appropriate. Geopolitical military conditions, including terrorist attacks and other acts of war, may materially and adversely affect the markets on which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks and other acts of war, and any response to them, may lead to armed hostilities and such developments would likely cause instability in financial markets. Armed hostilities and terrorism may directly impact our facilities, personnel and operations that are located in the United States and internationally, as well as those of our OEM customers, suppliers, third party manufacturer and customers. Furthermore, severe terrorist attacks or acts of war may result in temporary halts of commercial activity in the affected regions, and may result in reduced demand for our products. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and the trading price of our common stock. Compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are exposed to significant costs and risks associated with complying with increasingly stringent and complex regulations of corporate governance and disclosure standards. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Global Market rules require growing expenditure of management time and external resources. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal controls, and attestations of the effectiveness of our internal controls by our independent registered public accounting firm. This process has required us to hire additional personnel and outside advisory services and has resulted in significant accounting, audit and legal expenses. We expect to continue to incur significant expense in future periods to comply with regulations pertaining to corporate governance as described above. In addition, we have recently implemented an ERP system, which was an extremely complicated, time consuming and expensive process. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 