ITEM 1A Risk Factors Following is a discussion of the material risk factors to investors in AFG securities. Continued adverse developments in the financial markets and deterioration in global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on AFG's results of operations and financial condition. Worldwide economic conditions deteriorated significantly during 2008 and early 2009. The highly volatile debt and equity markets, lack of liquidity, widening credit spreads and the collapse of several financial institutions during this period resulted in significant realized and unrealized losses in AFG's investment portfolio. Although the U.S. and other foreign governments have taken a number of unprecedented actions to help stabilize the markets, it is uncertain whether those actions will be effective over the long term. At December 31, 2009, AFG's net unrealized gain on fixed maturity investments was $93 million consisting of gross gains of $581 million and gross losses of $488 million. Although AFG intends to hold its investments with unrealized losses until they recover in value, its intent may change for a variety of reasons as discussed in Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis - "Investments." A change in AFG's ability or intent with regard to a security in an unrealized loss position would result in the recognition of a realized loss. AFG's investment performance could also be adversely impacted by the types of investments, industry groups and/or individual securities in which it invests. As of December 31, 2009, 87% of AFG's investment portfolio was invested in fixed maturity securities. Certain risks are inherent in connection with fixed maturity securities including loss upon default and price volatility in reaction to changes in interest rates and general market factors. AFG's equity securities, which represent 2% of its investment portfolio, are subject to market price volatility. MBS represented about one-third of AFG's fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2009. AFG's MBS portfolio will continue to be impacted by general economic conditions, including unemployment levels, real estate values and other factors that could negatively effect the creditworthiness of borrowers. MBS in which the underlying collateral is subprime mortgages represented 2% of AFG's total fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2009; MBS in which the underlying collateral is Alt-A mortgages (risk profile between prime and subprime) represented approximately 5%. See Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Fixed Maturity Portfolio." AFG cannot predict whether and the extent to which industry sectors in which it maintains investments may suffer losses as a result of potential declines in commercial and economic activity, or how any such decline might impact the ability of companies within the affected industry sectors to pay interest or principal on their securities, or how the value of any underlying collateral might be affected. Investment returns are an important part of AFG's overall profitability. Accordingly, adverse fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could adversely impact AFG's profitability, financial condition or cash flows. In addition, the continuing economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on AFG's insureds and reinsurers. However, the impact that this would have on AFG's business cannot be predicted. 15 AFG's ability to recognize future tax benefits on realized and unrealized investment losses is limited. At December 31, 2009, AFG had a net deferred tax asset of $36.3 million related to capital loss carryforwards. Future realization of this asset, as well as the ability to record tax benefits on future realized and unrealized capital losses, will depend on management's assessment of available tax planning strategies such as realizing the existing appreciation in certain investment assets. If management believes realization of a deferred tax asset is not likely, a valuation allowance would be established by increasing income tax expense, or in the case of additional future unrealized losses, reducing accumulated other comprehensive income. Adverse developments in the financial markets may limit AFG's access to capital. Financial markets in the U.S. and elsewhere experienced extreme volatility during the latter part of 2008 and early 2009. These circumstances exerted downward pressure on stock prices and limited access to the equity and debt markets for certain issuers, including AFG. Although access to credit markets eased somewhat by mid-2009, enabling AFG to issue $350 million in 10-year Senior Notes, there is no assurance access to these markets will continue. The five-year revolving credit facility entered into by AFG in 2006 under which it can borrow up to $500 million expires in March 2011. There is no assurance that this facility will be renewed. In addition, AFG's access to funds through this facility is dependent on the ability of its banks to meet their funding commitments. There were no borrowings outstanding under this agreement at December 31, 2009. If AFG cannot obtain adequate capital or sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, its business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Intense competition could adversely affect AFG's profitability. The specialty insurance business is highly competitive and, except for regulatory considerations, there are relatively few barriers to entry. AFG's specialty insurance businesses compete with other individual insurers, state funds and insurance groups of varying sizes, some of which are mutual insurance companies possessing competitive advantages in that all their profits inure to their policyholders. In addition, certain foreign insurers can write business in the U.S. on a tax-advantaged basis and therefore hold a competitive advantage over AFG. AFG also competes with self-insurance plans, captive programs and risk retention groups. Peer companies and major competitors in some or all of AFG's specialty lines include the following companies and/or their subsidiaries: ACE Ltd., American International Group Inc. (Chartis and Lexington Insurance), Arch Capital Group Ltd., Chubb Corp., Cincinnati Financial Corp., CNA Financ ial Corp., Liberty Mutual, Markel Corp., Munich Re Group (Midland), Hartford Financial Services Group, HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc., Ironshore Insurance Ltd., RLI Corp., The Travelers Companies Inc., Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc. (Philadelphia Consolidated), W.R. Berkley Corp., Wells Fargo Corporation, XL Capital Ltd., Zenith National Insurance Corp and Zurich Financial Services Group. AFG's annuity and supplemental insurance businesses compete with individual insurers and insurance groups, mutual funds and other financial institutions. Competitors include the following companies and/or their subsidiaries: ING Life Insurance and Annuity Company, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, American International Group Inc., Life Insurance Company of the Southwest, Midland National Life Insurance Company, Allianz Life Insurance Company of North America, Aviva Life and Annuity Company, Mutual of Omaha Insurance Company and Bankers Life and Casualty Company. Competition is based on many factors, including service to policyholders and agents, product design, reputation for claims handling, ratings and financial strength. Price, commissions, fees, profit sharing terms, interest crediting rates, technology and distribution channels are also important factors. Some of AFG's competitors have more capital and greater resources than AFG, and may offer a broader range of products and lower prices than AFG offers. If competition limits AFG's ability to write new or renewal business at adequate rates, its results of operations will be adversely affected. 16 AFG's revenues could be negatively affected if it is not able to attract and retain independent agents. AFG's reliance on the independent agency market makes it vulnerable to a reduction in the amount of business written by agents. Many of AFG's competitors also rely significantly on the independent agency market. Accordingly, AFG must compete with other insurance carriers for independent agents' business. Some of its competitors offer a wider variety of products, lower price for insurance coverage or higher commissions. Loss of a substantial portion of the business that AFG writes through independent agents could adversely affect AFG's revenues and profitability. AFG is subject to comprehensive regulation, and its ability to earn profits may be restricted by these regulations. As previously discussed under "Regulation," AFG is subject to comprehensive regulation by government agencies in the states where its insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled and where these subsidiaries issue policies and handle claims. AFG must obtain prior approval for certain corporate actions. The regulations may limit AFG's ability to obtain rate increases or take other actions designed to increase AFG's profitability. Such regulation is primarily intended for the protection of policyholders rather than securityholders. Existing insurance-related laws and regulations may become more restrictive in the future or new restrictive laws may be enacted; it is not possible to predict the potential effects of these laws and regulations. The costs of compliance or the failure to comply with existing or future regulations could harm AFG's financial results and its reputation with customers. The Securities and Exchange Commission has proposed rules which would be effective in January 2013 whereby certain indexed annuities will be considered securities which can only be sold by registered representatives. Approximately 38% of AFG's statutory annuity premiums in 2009 were from sales of indexed annuities. Future premium volume may be adversely impacted by these new rules. New IRS regulations governing 403(b) plans became effective January 1, 2009. As a result, school districts and other not-for-profit employers are required to assume additional responsibilities for 403(b) plans offered to their employees. One consequence of these new regulations is that many of these employers have reduced the number of companies allowed to offer 403(b) products to their employees. AFG's annuity premiums could be negatively impacted if its insurance company subsidiaries are excluded from school districts that have historically been the source of a significant amount of premiums. The 2008 Federal Farm Bill reduced administrative and operating expense subsidies to crop insurers and authorized the United States Department of Agriculture's Risk Management Agency ("RMA") to renegotiate the Standard Reinsurance Agreement ("SRA"), which governs the FCIC's reinsurance agreements with insurers such as AFG. The RMA's proposal was released in December 2009 and would become effective for policies written beginning June 30, 2010. The RMA hopes to have a final agreement in place in the second quarter of 2010. As proposed, the SRA would reduce flexibility in managing underwriting risks, limit potential underwriting gains, and further lower expense reimbursement. The failure of AFG's insurance subsidiaries to maintain a commercially acceptable financial strength rating would have a significant negative effect on their ability to compete successfully. As discussed under "Property and Casualty Insurance Operations" and "Annuity and Supplemental Insurance Operations - General," financial strength ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and may be expected to have an effect on an insurance company's sales. A downgrade out of the "A" category in AFG's insurers' claims-paying and financial strength ratings could significantly reduce AFG's business volumes, adversely impact AFG's ability to access the capital markets and increase AFG's borrowing costs. 17 AFG's results may fluctuate as a result of cyclical pricing changes in the specialty insurance industry. The property and casualty group operates in a highly competitive industry that is affected by many factors that can cause significant fluctuations in its results of operations. The industry has historically been subject to pricing cycles characterized by periods of intense competition and lower premium rates (a "downcycle") followed by periods of reduced competition, reduced underwriting capacity due to lower policyholders' surplus and higher premium rates (an "upcycle"). The trend of AFG's underwriting results typically follows that of the industry and a prolonged downcycle could adversely affect AFG's results of operations. AFG's property and casualty reserves may be inadequate, which could significantly affect AFG's financial results. AFG's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries record reserve liabilities for the estimated payment of losses and loss adjustment expenses for both reported and unreported claims. Due to the inherent uncertainty of estimating reserves, it has been necessary in the past, and will continue to be necessary in the future, to revise estimated liabilities as reflected in AFG's reserves for claims and related expenses. While AFG recorded favorable development of $198 million in 2009, $242 million in 2008, $99 million in 2007 and $57 million in 2006, it had unfavorable development of $199 million (due primarily to A&E charges) in 2005. The historic development of reserves for losses and loss adjustment expense may not necessarily reflect future trends in the development of these amounts. Accordingly, it is not appropriate to extrapolate redundancies or deficiencies based on historical information. To the extent that reserves are inadequate and are strengthened, the amount of such increase is treated as a charge to earnings in the period in which the deficiency is recognized. AFG's results could be negatively impacted by severe weather conditions or other catastrophes. AFG recorded catastrophe losses of $18 million in 2009, $59 million in 2008 (principally wind-related storm damage from hurricanes Gustav and Ike and tornadoes) and $5 million in 2007. Catastrophes (some of which are seasonal) can be caused by natural events such as hurricanes, windstorms, tornadoes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, earthquakes, explosions and fire, and by man-made events, such as terrorist attacks and riots. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of the amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. In addition, certain catastrophes could result in both property and non-property claims from the same event. A severe catastrophe or a series of catastrophes could result in losses exceeding AFG's reinsurance protection and may have a material adverse impact on its results of operations or financial condition. Climate change and related regulation could adversely affect AFG's property and casualty insurance operations. While AFG does not believe that its operations are likely to be impacted by existing laws and regulations regarding climate change, it is possible that future regulation in this area could result in additional compliance costs and demands on management time. To the extent that global climate change meaningfully alters weather and tidal patterns, or sea levels, it is possible that the AFG's property and casualty insurance operations could experience an increase in claims, primarily in coastal areas and in AFG's crop and agricultural businesses. Volatility in crop prices could negatively impact AFG's financial results. Weather conditions and the level of crop prices in the commodities market heavily impact AFG's crop insurance business. These factors are inherently unpredictable and could result in significant volatility in the results of the crop insurance business from one year to the next. 18 Declines in used car prices could negatively impact AFG's financial results. AFG's run-off residual value business in Canada is heavily impacted by the level of used car prices obtained at auction. A significant decline in the market value of used Honda automobiles could result in losses. AFG's exposure to Canadian used car prices substantially ends in 2010. The inability to obtain reinsurance or to collect on ceded reinsurance could adversely impact AFG's results. AFG relies on the use of reinsurance to limit the amount of risk it retains. The following amounts of gross property and casualty premiums have been ceded to other insurers: 2009 - $1.5 billion (39%); 2008 - $1.4 billion (32%) and 2007 - $1.3 billion (32%). The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, which are beyond AFG's control and which may affect AFG's level of business and profitablility. AFG also reinsures the death benefits above certain retained amounts on its run-off life insurance business. AFG is also subject to credit risk with respect to its reinsurers, as AFG will remain liable to its insureds if any reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations under agreements covering the reinsurance ceded. Variations from the actuarial assumptions used to establish certain assets and liabilities in AFG's annuity and supplemental insurance business could negatively impact AFG's reported financial results. The earnings on certain products sold by AFG's annuity and supplemental insurance business depend significantly upon the extent to which actual experience is consistent with the assumptions used in setting reserves and establishing and amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs ("DPAC"). These assumptions relate to investment yields (and spreads over fixed annuity crediting rates), mortality, surrenders, annuitizations and, on some policies, the ability to obtain price increases, and morbidity. Developing such assumptions is complex and involves information obtained from company-specific and industry-wide data, as well as general economic information. These assumptions, and therefore AFG's results of operations, could be negatively impacted by changes in any of the factors listed above. For example, AFG recorded a $13 million pretax charge in 2009 (related primarily to its fixed annuity business) in connection wit h a review of major actuarial assumptions, including management's expectation of investment yields. The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military and other actions may adversely affect AFG's financial results. The continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States and abroad, and the ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and declines in the equity markets in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Actual terrorist attacks could cause losses from insurance claims related to AFG's property and casualty and life insurance operations with adverse financial consequences. In addition, some of the assets in AFG's investment portfolios may be adversely affected by declines in the capital markets and economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures. As a holding company, AFG is dependent on the operations of its insurance company subsidiaries to meet its obligations and pay future dividends. AFG is a holding company and a legal entity separate and distinct from its insurance company subsidiaries. As a holding company without significant operations of its own, AFG's principal sources of funds are dividends and other distributions from its insurance company subsidiaries. As discussed under "Regulation," state insurance laws limit the ability of insurance companies to pay dividends or other distributions and require insurance companies to maintain specified levels of statutory capital and surplus. AFG's rights to participate in any distribution of assets of its insurance company subsidiaries are subject to prior claims of policyholders and creditors (except to the extent that its rights, if any, as a creditor are recognized). Consequently, AFG's ability to pay debts, expenses and cash dividends to its shareholders may be limited. 19 AFG may be adversely impacted by a downgrade in the ratings of its debt securities. AFG's debt securities are rated by Standard & Poor's and Moody's independent corporate credit rating agencies. AFG's senior indebtedness is currently rated BBB by Standard & Poor's and Baa2 by Moody's. Securities ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. An unfavorable change in either of these ratings could make it more expensive to access the capital markets and may increase the interest rate charged under AFG's current multi-bank credit line. AFG is a party to litigation which, if decided adversely, could impact its financial results. AFG and its subsidiaries are named as defendants in a number of lawsuits. See Item 1 - "Property and Casualty Insurance Operations - Asbestos and Environmental Reserves ("A&E")," Item 3 - "Legal Proceedings," and Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis - "Uncertainties." Litigation, by its very nature, is unpredictable and the outcome of these cases is uncertain and could result in liabilities that may vary from amounts AFG has currently recorded and a material variance could have a material effect on AFG's business, operations, profitability or financial condition. Certain shareholders exercise substantial control over AFG's affairs, which may impede a change of control transaction. Carl H. Lindner is Chairman of the Board of Directors of AFG, and his sons, Carl H. Lindner III and S. Craig Lindner, are each Co-Chief Executive Officers and Directors of AFG. Carl H. Lindner, Carl H. Lindner III and S. Craig Lindner beneficially own 5.4%, 9.2% and 8.0%, respectively, of AFG's outstanding Common Stock as of February 1, 2010. As a result, certain members of the Lindner family have the ability to exercise significant influence over AFG's management, including over matters requiring shareholder approval. The price of AFG Common Stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for holders to resell common stock when they want or at a price they find attractive. The price of AFG's Common Stock as listed on the NYSE and Nasdaq Global Select Market constantly changes. During 2009, AFG's Common Stock traded at prices ranging between $12.77 and $26.63. AFG's Common Stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond its control. These factors include but are not limited to: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; actual or anticipated changes in the dividends paid on AFG Common Stock; rating agency actions; recommendations by securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving AFG or its competitors; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to AFG; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in AFG's lines of business; general economic conditions, including volatility in the financial markets; and geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. 20 