ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, may also harm our business. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any such additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. You should consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report, including, but not limited to, the financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to the Capital and Credit Markets There can be no assurances that the recently enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 will help stabilize the financial system in the United States. On October 3, 2008, former President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”). The legislation was the result of a proposal by the then Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress on September 19, 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. The U.S. Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced in the industry. The failure of the EESA to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Also on October 14, 2008, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation announced the development of a guarantee program under the systemic risk exception to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act pursuant to which the FDIC would, among other things, offer a guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in exchange for an insurance premium to be paid to the FDIC by issuing financial institutions (the “FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program”). On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), a further package of economic stimulus measures. In addition, Treasury Secretary Geithner has announced further measures to address the crisis in the financial services sector. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EE SA, the ARRA, their respective implementing regulations, the programs of the FDIC or any other governmental agency, or any further legislation, will have on the financial markets. The failure to stabilize the financial markets, and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Current levels of securities and financial market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers which effects may or may not be directly related to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within our geographic footprint, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. If the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations decline, or continue to decline, this could result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan and lease losses. Declines in the U.S. economy and the real estate market contributed to our increasing provisions for loan losses during 2008, and our expectation for future loan losses and loss provisions during 2009. These factors could result in loan loss provisions in excess of charge-offs, delinquencies and/or greater charge-offs in future periods, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, deterioration of the U.S. economy may adversely impact our traditional banking business. Economic declines may be accompanied by a decrease in demand for consumer or commercial credit and declining real estate and other asset values. 17 Declining real estate and other asset values may reduce the ability of borrowers to use such equity to support borrowings. Delinquencies, foreclosures and losses generally increase during economic slow downs or recessions. Additionally, our servicing costs, collection costs and credit losses may also increase in periods of economic slow down or recessions. The impact of recent events relating to subprime mortgages resulting in a substantial housing recession has not been limited to those directly involved in the real estate construction industry (such as builders and developers). Current market developments may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers including other financial institutions. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national conditions and local conditions in our markets. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. While we are taking steps to decrease and limit our exposure to construction and land loans, residential mortgage loans, home equity loans and lines of credit we nonetheless retain direct exposure to the commercial and residential real estate markets and we are affected by these events. Our commercial banking line of business has a portfolio of construction and land development loans. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which co uld adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a possible national economic recession or further deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses and result in the following other consequences: loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. Risks Related to Our Business Loan losses would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results and could cause our insolvency, which would negatively affect the value of our common stock. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that the value of the collateral securing the payment of their loans, if any, may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Our loan portfolio includes: (i) commercial and residential mortgage loans principally secured by real estate; (ii) other commercial loans; and (iii) consumer and home equity loans. Our credit risk with respect to our consumer and commercial loan portfolios relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses within our local market area and the value of the collateral held as security for the repayment of the loan. Our credit risk with respect to our residential and commercial real estate mortgage portfolio relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses and the value of real estate serving as security for the repayment of the loans. Loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results and could cause our insolvency, which may negatively affect the value of our common stock. 18 A decline in the value of the collateral securing our loans could result in an increase in losses on foreclosure, which could adversely affect our financial condition and negatively affect the value of our common stock. Declining real estate values increase the loan-to-value ratios of loans we previously made, which, in turn, increases the probability of a loss in the event the borrower defaults and we have to sell the mortgaged property. In addition, delinquencies, foreclosures on loans and losses from delinquent and foreclosed loans generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. As a result, the market value of the real estate or other collateral underlying our loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans, which could adversely affect our financial condition and negatively impact the value of our common stock. In addition, any significant decline in real estate values reduces the ability of borrowers to use home equity as collateral for borrowings. This reduction in real estate values may reduce the number of loans we are able to make, which could also adversely affect our operating r esults and negatively affect the value of our common stock. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and may negatively affect the value of our common stock. From time to time, we recognize losses resulting from the inability of certain borrowers to repay loans and the insufficient realizable value of the collateral securing loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. In determining the size of the allowance, our management evaluates our past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower’s ability to repay (including the timing of future payments), the estimated value of any underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimates of material factors, including, but not limited to, the amounts and timing of future ca sh flows expected to be received on impaired loans, that may be susceptible to significant change. If our assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Federal and state regulators also periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results, which may negatively affect the value of our common stock. Our level of growth in recent years may not continue if our growth strategy is not successful. In recent years, we have experienced significant growth through acquisitions and internal generation of new business. While we have diminished our rate of growth in 2008 in response to adverse market conditions, in the medium to longer term, we intend to continue to expand our business through internal growth by adding to our loan portfolio and bringing in new deposits as well as through the acquisition of the assets and assumption of deposits of other banks as opportunities are identified. However, our ability to sustain continued growth depends upon several factors outside of our control, including economic conditions generally and in Florida in particular, as well as interest rate trends. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits at acceptable risk and asset quality levels and upon acceptable terms, while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with this growth strategy. There can be no assurance that any further expansion will be profitable or that we will continue to be able to sustain our historical rate of growth, either through internal growth or through acquisitions. Acquisitions that we may engage in involve risks, which could negatively affect our operations and reduce the value of our common stock. As part of our growth strategy, we completed, and may engage in the future in, bank or other acquisitions. Generally, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: · difficulties in assimilating operations of the acquired institution and implementing uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · exposure to asset quality problems of the acquired institution; · maintaining adequate regulatory capital; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; 19 · risks and expenses of entering new geographic markets; · potential significant loss of depositors or loan customers from the acquired institution; · loss of key employees of the acquired institution; and · exposure to undisclosed or unknown liabilities of an acquired institution. Any of these acquisition risks could result in unexpected losses or expenses and thereby reduce the expected benefits of the acquisition. Moreover, our failure to successfully integrate future acquisitions and manage our growth could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. We have experienced operating losses in the past, and continued losses may negatively impact our financial position and the value of our common stock. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, we had net income of $3.2 million and $2.9 million, respectively however there can be no assurance that we will continue to be profitable in the future. In 2008 we incurred a net loss of $55.5 million which was primarily attributable to a one time write off of goodwill and other intangible assets in the amount of $44.2 million, a reserve of deferred tax assets in the amount of $8.5 million as well as due to loan loss provisions in the year of $9.5 million. In 2007 we incurred a net loss of $3.1 million, which was primarily attributable to a number of individual write-offs associated with a branch demolition, staff reductions, branch closure costs and the increased provision for loan losses of $4.5 million required to reduce the carrying value of our loan portfolio. If we continue to experience losses, our financial position could be negatively affected and the value of our common stock may decline. The geographic concentration of our operations in Florida makes our business highly susceptible to local economic conditions, and an economic downturn or recession or adverse weather conditions in Florida may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Unlike larger banking organizations that are more geographically diversified, our operations are currently concentrated in Miami-Dade, Broward, Palm Beach and Martin Counties in Florida. As a result of this geographic concentration in the Southeast Florida market, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in this market area. A deterioration or recession in economic conditions in this market has negatively affected and may continue to negatively affect could result in one or more of the following: · an increase in loan delinquencies; · an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; · a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and · a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, and reduction in the customers’ borrowing power. In addition, because a large portion of our loan portfolio is secured by properties located in Florida, the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, could result in a decline in deposits and loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of mortgaged properties and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loss on loans originated by us in that state. Environmental laws and regulations and other environmental considerations may restrict our ability to foreclose on loans secured by real estate or increase costs associated with those loans, which could adversely affect our financial condition. If we foreclosed upon a property that had environmental liabilities, we could face significant liability. Our ability to foreclose on the real estate collateralizing our loans may be limited by environmental laws that pertain primarily to commercial properties that require a current or previous owner or operator of real property to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases on the property. In addition, the owner or operator may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and cleanup costs relating to the contaminated property. While we would not knowingly make a loan collateralized by real property that was contaminated, we may not discover the environmental contamination until after we made the loan or after we foreclosed on a loan. If we foreclosed upon a property that had environmental liabilities, we could face significant liability. 20 In addition to federal or state laws, owners or former owners of a contaminated site may be subject to common law claims, including tort claims, by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination migrating from the property. Other environmental considerations, such as pervasive mold infestation of real estate securing our loans, may also restrict our ability to foreclose on delinquent loans. To the extent that we sustain losses due to the environmental issues that may arise in connection with our loans, such losses could adversely affect our financial condition and impact the value of our common stock. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business and our financial condition. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2005, we began a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules and regulations, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In this regard, management has hired an external consultant, been dedicating internal resources and adopted a detailed work plan to: (i) assess and document the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting; (ii) take steps to improve control processes, where appropriate; (iii) verify through testing that controls are functioning as documented; and (iv) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to correct any issues in the design or operating effectiveness of our key internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of our common stock. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to secure adequate funding; our use of wholesale funding sources exposes us to potential liquidity risk. We have increased our reliance on wholesale funding, such as Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings and brokered deposits in recent quarters. Because wholesale funding sources are affected by general capital market conditions, the availability of funding from wholesale lenders may be dependent on the confidence these investors have in commercial banking. While we have processes in place to monitor and mitigate these funding risks, the continued availability to us of these funding sources is uncertain, and we could be adversely impacted if our business becomes disfavored by wholesale lenders or large depositors. Brokered deposits may be difficult for us to retain or replace at attractive rates as they mature. Our financial flexibility could be constrained if we are unable to renew our wholesale funding or if adequate financing is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest. We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loans or lease originations, and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly in order to repay obligations as they mature. The Company and the Bank are subject to an enforcement action by federal and state banking regulatory authorities and entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and the State of Florida Office of Financial Regulation. Our potential failure to comply with terms of the agreement may result in severe penalties to the Company. On January 28, 2009, the Company and the Bank entered into a written agreement (the “FRB Agreement”), effective January 26, 2009, with the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta (the “Reserve Bank”) and the State of Florida Office of Financial Regulation (the “OFR”). Under the terms of the FRB Agreement, the Bank agreed to implement asset improvement restrictions relating to the extension or renewal of credit to certain borrowers including borrowers obligated to the Bank in charge-offs or losses or whose credit has been classified doubtful or substandard without the prior approval of the Bank’s board of directors. The Bank agreed that within 60 days of the FRB Agreement, it would submit to the Reserve Bank and the OFR, a written plan designed to improve the Bank’s position through repayment, or other means, on each loan or asset in excess of $500,000, including other real estate owned, that is past due a s to principal or interest more than 90 days as of the date of this Agreement, is classified as a problem loan or has otherwise been adversely classified by the Bank’s regulators. 21 Additionally, the Company agreed within 60 days of the FRB Agreement to submit to the Reserve Bank a written plan to maintain sufficient capital at the Bank on a consolidated basis, and the Bank agreed to submit to the Reserve Bank and the OFR a written plan to maintain sufficient capital at the Bank as a separate legal entity on a stand-alone basis. The plan is required to address certain current and future capital requirements, including: · the Company’s current and future capital requirements, including compliance with the Capital Adequacy Guidelines for Bank Holding Companies; · the Bank’s current and future capital requirements, including compliance with the Capital Adequacy Guidelines for State Member Banks; · the adequacy of the Bank’s capital; · the source and timing of additional funds to fulfill the Company’s and the Bank’s future capital requirements; · the requirements of Section 225.4(a) of Regulation Y of the Board of Governors that the Company serve as a source of strength to the Bank; and · procedures for the Company and the Bank to notify the Reserve Bank and the OFR no more than 30 days after the end of any quarter in which any of the Company’s consolidated capital ratios or the Bank’s capital ratios (total risk-based, Tier 1, or leverage) fall below the appropriate plan’s minimum ratios. Furthermore, under the terms of the FRB Agreement: · the Company and the Bank agreed not to declare or pay any dividends without the prior written approval of the Reserve Bank, the director of the Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation of the Board of Governors, and, as to the Bank, the OFR; · the Bank agreed it would not take any other form of payment representing a reduction in capital from the Bank without the prior written approval of the Reserve Bank; · the Company agreed it would not, directly or indirectly, incur, increase, or guarantee any debt without the prior written approval of the Reserve Bank; and · the Company agreed it would not, directly or indirectly, purchase or redeem any shares of its stock without the prior written approval of the Reserve Bank. The terms of the FRB Agreement require the Bank to submit additional written plans, programs, policies and procedures to the Reserve Bank and the OFR to address board of director oversight, credit risk management, loan policies and procedures, and its loan review function. The FRB Agreement is based, in part, on certain findings of the OFR in its Report of Examination. The Bank agreed that within 30 days of the FRB Agreement, the Bank would eliminate or correct regulatory violations cited in the Report of Examination. Our potential failure to comply with the terms of the FRB Agreement could result in significant enforcement actions against us of increasing severity, up to and including a regulatory takeover of the Bank. Government regulation may have an adverse effect on our profitability and growth. We are subject to extensive federal and state government supervision and regulation. Our ability to continue to grow profitably could be adversely affected by federal and state banking laws and regulations that limit the manner in which we accept deposits, make loans, purchase securities, pay dividends and engage in banking and other businesses. These laws and regulations, including without limitation Anti-Money Laundering laws and the Patriot Act, are subject to change and such changes may adversely affect our business and profitability due to the costs related to compliance with these requirements or changes that may be required to our operations. These laws and regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors, not stockholders. In addition, the burden imposed by federal and state laws and regulations may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to financial institutions that are less regulated and may have an adverse affect on our profitability, which may decrease the value of our common stock. Future legislation or government policy may also adversely affect our operations. 22 Competition from other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability and growth, which may reduce the value of our common stock. As a small commercial bank we face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors, including many large financial institutions. Competition for deposits, loans, and other financial services comes from numerous Florida-based and out-of-state banks, savings banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities that provide financial services, many of which are much larger than Sun American Bank. Most of these competitors, some of which are affiliated with bank holding companies, have substantially greater resources and lending limits, and may offer certain services, such as trust, investment and full service international banking, that the Bank does not currently provide. In addition, many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive federal regulations that govern bank holding companies and federally insured banks. Competition from various financial institutions could hinder our growth strategy and ability to attain profitable operations, which may reduce the value of our common stock. From time to time we are subject to litigation and arbitration, the impact of which on our financial position is uncertain. The inherent uncertainty related to litigation makes it difficult to predict the ultimate outcome or potential liability that we may incur as a result of these matters. The Company and the Bank are periodically parties to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings or arbitration proceedings, such as claims to enforce liens, claims involving the making and servicing of real property loans, and other issues incident to our business. Additionally, we may become subject to other litigation and arbitration activity not in the ordinary course of business, including without limitation disputes arising from acquisitions and business combinations. The Company is currently engaged in arbitration proceedings with Beach Bank in connection with the asset acquisition agreement closing balance sheet. The acquisition agreement related to Sun American’s acquisition transaction with Beach Bank provided that the total dollar value of the shares of Sun American’s common stock to be issued and delivered by Sun American, as consideration for the purchase of the assets and the assumption of the obligations from Beach Bank, was determined by multiplying 2.35 times the book value of Beach Bank calculated based upon the final audited closing balance sheet prepared by Beach Bank. The exact number of shares of Sun American common stock issued in the acquisition transaction was required to be determined based upon the book value of Beach Bank as set forth in the final, audited closing balance sheet, subject to adjustment as described in the agree ment. Such final, audited balance sheet of Beach Bank was submitted to Sun American on February 27, 2007 and was subject to review by Sun American. Sun American requested certain adjustments to the final balance sheet of Beach Bank. The adjustments to the final balance sheet requested by Sun American required the consent of the shareholder representative of the Beach Bank Liquidating Trust, Michael Kosnitzky, which was not provided. The dispute was submitted to an independent registered public accounting firm to independently determine the correct accounting under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles in accordance with the terms provided for in the asset acquisition agreement. On February 7, 2008, the independent accountant determined expense adjustments of $1,571,307 out of a possible $1,595,353 were required to be made to the final audited closing balance sheet of Beach Bank in favor of the Bank. The accounting resolution provided by the independent accounting firm was to be final and binding on both parties. The Beach Bank Liquidating Trust applied to the Eleventh Judicial Circuit Court for Miami-Dade County, Florida (the “Court”) to have the accounting arbitration award vacated. On July 17, 2008 the Court vacated the award due to violations of the Amended Protocol Order by both parties. The dispute is in process of being returned to the independent accountant to independently determine the correct accounting under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles in accordance with the terms provided for in the asset acquisition agreement. If the accounting arbitration ruling ends in favor of the Bank, the Beach Bank Liquidating Trust will be required to return to Sun American, transaction consideration totaling approximately $3.0 million. The actual number of shares to be returned to the Company is not readily determinable at this time because it will be based upon the average daily trading price of the Company’s common stock for the ten days prior to the distribution. In addition, the Company could be required to issue additional shares of common stock in an amount up to approximately $700,000 should the Beach Bank Liquidating Trust position prevail. The accounting arbitration ruling, when finalized, is subject to review and adjustment under the general arbitration provisions of the asset acquisition agreement. Termination or rescission of the acquisition transaction is not contemplated. 23 Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities There is not presently an active market for shares of our common stock and, therefore, you may be unable to sell any shares of common stock in the event that you need a source of liquidity. Although our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading in our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the trading in the securities of many other companies listed on that market. A public trading market in our common stock having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. In the event an active market for our common stock does not develop, you may be unable to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price per share which you acquired your shares or at any price. Issuance of shares of our common stock upon the exercise or conversion of derivative securities may cause significant dilution of equity interests of existing holders of common stock, reduce the proportionate voting power of existing holders of common stock and reduce the value of our common stock. As of March 25, 2009, 10,934,944 shares of our common stock were issued and 10,230,466 shares of common stock were outstanding. We have reserved approximately 4,513,225 shares of common stock for issuance in connection with previously issued warrants that are exercisable or convertible into common stock, which represents 43% of our outstanding common stock. We also have reserved 2,830,800 shares of common stock for issuance in connection with our benefit plans and 80,000 shares of common stock in connection with our warrant plan adopted by our Board of Directors. Should existing holders of warrants or other securities exercisable or convertible into shares of our common stock exercise or convert such derivative securities into shares of our common stock, it may cause significant dilution of equity interests of existing holders of common stock, reduce the proportionate voting power of existing holders of common stock and reduce the value of ou r common stock and outstanding warrants. As of March 25, 2009, we had approximately 2,345,400 shares of our common stock available for future issuances, which issuances would cause further dilution to our stockholders. A substantial number of our outstanding shares of common stock or shares issuable upon the exercise of options and warrants are eligible for future sale and the sale of our shares of common stock into the market may depress our stock price. Our stock price may be depressed by future sales of our shares of common stock or the perception that future sales may occur. As of December 31, 2008, 10,934,944 shares of our common stock were issued and 10,230,466 shares of our common stock were outstanding, of which 7,468,242 shares have previously been registered with the SEC. As of December 31, 2008, 5,719,728 shares issuable upon the exercise of options or warrants have been registered for resale with the SEC, including 2,330,664 shares underlying options issued under our Amended and Restated Directors Stock Option Plan, our Amended and Restated Incentive Stock Option Plan and our Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Option and Stock Incentive Plan, 1,875,630 shares underlying Series D common stock purchase warrants, 1,266,943 shares underlying Series F warrants, 20,000 shares underlying Series G warrants and 226,491 shares underlying the placement agent warrants. Furthe r, there are currently additional unregistered shares of common stock that may be sold under Rule 144. We are unable to estimate the amount, timing or nature of future sales of common stock. Sales of substantial additional amounts of common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, may lower the common stock’s market price. We currently have outstanding shares of our Series A preferred stock and may issue additional shares of preferred stock that could be entitled to dividends, liquidation preferences and other special rights and preferences not shared by holders of our common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. We may issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series as our board of directors may from time to time determine without stockholder approval. The voting powers, preferences and other special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of each such series of preferred stock may differ from each other. On September 17, 2008, the Company’s board of directors designated the Series A Preferred Stock as a series of the Company’s “blank check preferred stock” authorized for issuance under the Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The rights, 24 preferences, powers, restrictions, and obligations of the Series A Preferred Stock are set forth in the Certificate of Designations filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on October 7, 2008, which was effective upon filing. At December 31, 2008, there were 93,750 shares of Series A Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. The issuance of any such additional shares of preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and could reduce the value of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions and the regulations to which we may be subject may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws, including the right to issue “blank check” preferred stock, as well as approvals required under banking laws and regulations, could hinder or delay a change in control of our company, including transactions in which holders of common stock might otherwise receive a premium over the market price of their shares at the time of the transaction. We do not pay cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. We are subject to legal limitations under federal and state laws affecting the frequency and amount of dividends that may be paid to our stockholders. Banking regulators may restrict the ability of any bank holding company subject to their jurisdiction to pay dividends if the payments would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. As a Delaware corporation, we may not declare and pay dividends on our capital stock if the amount paid exceeds an amount equal to the surplus, which represents the excess of our net assets over paid-in-capital or, if there is no surplus, our net profits for the current and/or immediately preceding fiscal year. Under applicable Delaware case law, dividends may not be paid on our common stock if we become insolvent or the payment of dividends will render us insolvent. We do not pay, and we do not anticipate paying, any cash dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 