risk factors that are or may be discussed from time to time in our public announcements and our other filings with the SEC, including our future Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our view only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise after the date of this report. ITEM 1. BUSINESS We develop and distribute the Fast ForWord® family of reading intervention software. Our patented products build learning capacity by rigorously and systematically applying neuroscience principles to improve the fundamental neuro-cognitive skills required to read and learn. Reading is essential for success in school and in life, yet according to the National Assessment of Educational Progress conducted by the U.S. Department of Education, in 2005 36% of fourth graders in the U.S. had below basic reading scores and 69% were not proficient in reading at grade level. Among students eligible for free or reduced-price lunches, the NAEP found that 84% of fourth graders were not proficient in reading at grade level. According to the NAEP, between 1992 and 2005, there was no statistically significant change in the proportion of fourth graders below basic, despite a national focus on reading and significant and increased federal funding. Learning to read proficiently is a complex task involving multiple cognitive processes. In recent years, scientists have come to a much better understanding of these processes. Our software products are based on and incorporate learning from more than 30 years of research on the brain, language and reading. Extensive outcomes research by independent researchers, school districts, our founding scientists and our company demonstrates that the Fast ForWord products help students attain fast and enduring gains in the skills critical for reading. At the end of 2005, our product family included 13 offerings, all focused on building learning capacity. Our Fast ForWord family includes products that develop cognitive skills in the specific contexts of early literacy development, foundational language skills, linking spoken language and print, reading skills from grade levels K through 5 and adolescent intervention. To assist educators in getting the best results from their Fast ForWord implementations, we offer a web-based data analysis and reporting tool that provides diagnostic and prescriptive information and intervention strategies and allows educators to track student progress and move students appropriately through the product sequence. To encourage best practices in the use of our products, we provide on-site and remote services, including product training, professional development, implementation management, consulting and technical installation. We also provide technical, instructional and customer support and a wide variety of web-based resources. From our inception through the end of 2005, approximately 3,800 schools had purchased at least $10,000 of our Fast ForWord product licenses and services, and during 2005 over 135,000 new students enrolled in one of our products. MARKETS K-12 MARKET Our primary market is K-12 schools in the United States. In each of the last three years, the K-12 sector has represented more than 90% of our booked sales. Page 4 The K-12 market is large. The National Center for Education Statistics, part of the U.S. Department of Education, estimates that in fall 2005 U.S. K-12 schools enrolled more than 54 million students, and projects that K-12 enrollment will continue growing to 56.7 million students in 2014.* Market Data Retrieval, a supplier of market information to the education industry, estimates that there are approximately 14,500 public school districts in the U.S. and 105,000 public and private school buildings, or sites. The K-12 instructional materials market can be divided along a variety of characteristics based on type of instructional material (for example, basal, supplemental, reference, assessment), subject matter (reading, math, etc.), and medium (for example, print, software, on-line content, manipulatives). Using these categories, our products are best classified as supplemental software for reading intervention. Eduventures, a strategic consulting firm in the education industry, estimates that in 2003, K-12 schools spent $3.3 billion on supplemental content for all subject areas. Education Market Report’s Complete K-12 Newsletter (July 2005) estimated the market for all educational software at approximately $800 million for the 2004 – 2005 school year, growing approximately 10% over 2003-2004, compared to declining or flat sales in the years from 2001 to 2004. The supplemental market is highly fragmented, with numerous suppliers. We believe that we presently have a small share of the reading intervention supplemental market. Reading achievement, grade level proficiency, and accountability were reconfirmed as important national educational priorities by the federal No Child Left Behind (NCLB) Act of 2001. NCLB also emphasizes the need to use proven practices and products grounded in scientifically based research to improve student performance. Our products align well with the emphases of NCLB. Fast ForWord products improve reading performance by increasing learning capacity through applying proven neuroscience principles to develop cognitive skills. Our products help bring struggling students to grade level and assist educators in meeting their accountability objectives. The results that can be achieved through our products are established by research conducted by independent academic researchers and school districts as well as by our founding scientists and our company. To date, more than 800 publications have described the Fast ForWord products, the results that have been achieved using our products or the foundational research on which the products are based. We believe that our products’ alignment with the important national priorities outlined in NCLB assists us in marketing and selling our products. K-12 FUNDING The general availability of funding for public schools fluctuates from time to time. State and local education funding is sensitive to levels of state and local tax revenues, which fluctuate with general economic activity. Substantial federal resources also fund a wide variety of education programs, many of which are focused on reading improvement. According to a recent survey by the National Conference of State Legislatures, state budget conditions continue to improve following difficult state budgets in earlier years.* State budget overruns are declining, although states still report increasing spending demands for Medicaid and other health care programs, corrections, education and other priorities.* Among the federal education programs, we believe that Title 1 and IDEA (special education) have been the most significant sources of funds for purchases of Fast ForWord licenses. The 2006 federal appropriations for these programs are at approximately the same level as in 2005. The current federal budget deficit and competing priorities, however, may impact the continuing availability of federal education funding. The President’s 2007 federal budget proposal calls for a decrease in overall federal education funding, particularly in funding for technology, but proposes increases in special education funding and would hold Title 1 funding level. OTHER MARKETS In addition to selling to K-12 schools, in the United States and Canada we also sell to and through private practice professionals, learning centers, hospitals and clinics and to correctional institutions. These speech and language and other professionals recommend the use of our products to appropriate clients and then supervise the use of the software, often in connection with their other services. In 2005, over 600 non-school professionals and entities used our products. While these private professionals represent a small percentage of total booked sales, they remain significant to us. Private practice professionals were our first market, and many have extensive knowledge about our products and their use that can be valuable for us and for all of our customers. These professionals sometimes provide contract services to schools and from time to time recommend Fast ForWord products for students in those schools. Page 5 We are also building a network of independent value-added resellers outside the United States and Canada. At December 31, 2005, we had fifteen of these resellers. In 2005, booked sales outside the United States and Canada increased, but to date have not been significant. PRODUCTS Our Fast ForWord family of products consists of award-winning reading intervention software that builds learning capacity. Our products systematically and rigorously apply proven neuroscience principles to develop the neuro-cognitive skills required to read and learn effectively, using exercises based on language and reading skills. The results from our products are fast, effective and enduring, and have been demonstrated through brain imaging studies, changes in achievement on standardized reading tests and more than fifty efficacy studies. COGNITIVE SKILLS DEVELOPMENT Reading and learning require a variety of foundational neuro-cognitive skills, all functioning together. The Fast ForWord products build learning capacity by developing the prerequisite skills that enable students to take greater advantage of their reading instruction and improve their reading proficiency. Fast ForWord products do this by building the cognitive skills of memory, attention, processing and sequencing, which we call Learning MAPs. Memory. The ability to hold information short- and long-term, essential for word recognition, comprehension of complex sentences and for remembering instructions. Attention. The ability to focus on tasks and ignore distractions. Processing. The ability to address information such as images and sounds quickly enough to discriminate their differences. Processing skills are an essential prerequisite for phonemic awareness (the ability to distinguish among and manipulate the smallest sounds in language that can change meaning) and reading. Sequencing. The ability to quickly and accurately determine which of two events or stimuli comes first, which is supported by memory, attention, and processing. Sequencing is essential for developing phonemic awareness, word fluency, and oral and reading comprehension. FAST POWER LEARNING™ FORMULA Neuroscience and cognitive research has demonstrated the importance of frequency and intensity, adaptivity, simultaneous development, and timely motivation for learning new tasks and establishing change in brain function. The Fast ForWord products use these principles to achieve results that help students build learning capacity by developing cognitive skills. Frequency and intensity: Brain plasticity research demonstrates that completing a set of learning tasks in a frequent, intense timeframe is needed to make the changes in brain functioning that enhance learning. To maximize the efficacy of our products, we have established protocols for our major products that require between 48 and 100 minutes of product use a day, five days per week. Adaptivity: The interactive exercises in the Fast ForWord products adapt to each student’s skill level and progress, automatically adjusting content exposure in a variety of ways. For example, many of the exercises automatically adjust the specific content presented to the student so that the student can make correct responses approximately 80% of the time for each discrete skill. This adjustment is designed to keep the exercises challenging and engaging, while allowing the student to experience a feeling of accomplishment and to avoid the frequent failure that can discourage a student’s learning. Simultaneous Development: The Fast ForWord products simultaneously develop both major and supporting cognitive skills for enduring learning improvements. While each exercise focuses on a specific set of reading or language tasks, it is also designed to develop underlying cognitive skills such as memory, attention, processing and sequencing. Page 6 Timely Motivation: For the brain to learn, the student must be attentive and engaged, so motivation is critical to maintaining learning improvements. In the Fast ForWord products, learners are rewarded for a correct answer on their first attempt only, a scientifically validated motivational technique. Other motivational techniques include a bonus point system and the delivery of special animations that signify milestones as students progress. PRODUCTS IN THE FAST FORWORD FAMILY During 2005, our Fast ForWord family of products accounted for 75% of revenue. These software products function with a wide variety of hardware and software configurations and are designed to work with the computer technology widely available in schools. Language Series Products Fast ForWord Language, our first product, builds learning capacity through developing cognitive skills using exercises that specifically focus on oral language comprehension and listening, including phonological awareness (the understanding that words are composed of sounds and the ability to identify and manipulate the sounds of language), listening accuracy and comprehension, working memory, and familiarity with language structures. The Fast ForWord Language product uses acoustically modified speech, which stretches and emphasizes particular sounds in an adaptive manner, to help children learn to quickly isolate and recognize individual speech sounds, an underlying skill critical to reading. Fast ForWord Middle and High School software is designed for adolescents and teenagers who lack reading proficiency. Its content and exercises are similar to those in Fast ForWord Language, but are delivered in an age-appropriate sports-themed user interface. Fast ForWord Language to Reading software builds learning capacity while helping students make the link between spoken language and written language, using exercises that focus on word analysis, listening comprehension, working memory, grammar, syntax, and vocabulary. Fast ForWord Language Basics product, launched in 2005, targets early literacy development and builds visual and sustained auditory attention and sound sequencing cognitive skills. Reading Series Products Fast ForWord to Reading is a series of products that build learning capacity through developing cognitive skills using exercises focused on critical reading abilities. Like the Language Series products, the Reading Series products systematically and rigorously apply fundamental neuroscience principles. The Reading Series exercises focus on phonemic awareness, phonics and decoding, spelling, vocabulary, fluency and comprehension. At the upper levels of the series, students use these products to build familiarity with writing conventions, extend word level knowledge of semantic, phonological, morphological and syntactic structures, and advance their sentence and passage comprehension skills. (Morphology relates to the use of words, letters, and letter combinations that change the meaning of a word. Syntax relates to how grammatical markers and words are combined to make meaningful sentences.) At the end of 2005, our Reading series consisted of six products, starting at Fast ForWord to Reading Prep (correlated to generally-accepted standards for kindergarten-level skills) and progressing through Fast ForWord to Reading 5 (correlated to fifth grade skills). Fast ForWord to Reading Prep and Fast ForWord to Reading 5 were introduced in 2005. PRODUCT EFFECTIVENESS Research by our school district customers, independent academics and our own scientists has demonstrated that Fast ForWord products improve language and reading skills across a broad spectrum of demographic groups, and we continue to accumulate outcomes data from students in classrooms across the country. During 2005 over 135,000 individuals enrolled in Fast ForWord products, and we have accumulated research outcomes on more than 45,000 individuals, including approximately 22,000 controls. Published studies show outcomes from more than 400 sites. Gains have been confirmed among a variety of groups, including African-American students, Hispanic students, students with limited English proficiency, students struggling with reading, and students of low socio-economic status. Gains on specific reading skills have been confirmed using several standardized, nationally normed reading tests. In addition, schools that have used Fast ForWord products have provided us with state Page 7 achievement test scores from students before and after they have used Fast ForWord products. Analyses of these data have demonstrated that, following Fast ForWord participation, students, on average, achieve significant improvements on a wide variety of important achievement tests. The underlying basis for these achievement gains is demonstrated by the Stanford University study published in 2003 in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. This study confirmed that after using the Fast ForWord Language product, students on average experienced significant changes in brain activation patterns as shown by functional magnetic resonance imaging, coupled with significant improvements in reading performance. LICENSE TERMS We license our products in a variety of configurations to meet the customer’s needs. Schools typically purchase site or workstation licenses, which are available either as a perpetual license or for a limited term. The license package typically contains at least two of our Language series products and varying quantities of our Reading series products. Most customers also purchase implementation services, which we believe are important to encourage successful use of the products. Our license package list prices range from $10,000 to $85,000 per site, depending on the number of products, the number of workstations, the duration of the license and the volume purchased. Products licensed for administration by private practice professionals are generally purchased on a per product per student basis. Our Language and Reading series products presently list for between $500 and $900 per product per student. The private practice professional charges separately for his or her services. Hospitals, clinics and learning centers purchase both per-product per-student licenses and site or workstation licenses, depending on their size and needs. FAST FORWORD TO LEARNING SERVICES AND SUPPORT One of our key strategic goals is to broaden market acceptance of our products as effective reading intervention solutions.* We believe that selling more services is critical to achieving that goal because, in order to achieve successful implementations, many school customers require significant implementation support. In 2005, services and support accounted for 25% of revenue, compared to 26% in 2004 and 18% in 2003. At the end of 2005, our service and support organization included 40 employees supplemented by 33 independent contractors who provide on-site customer training and technical services. SERVICES School districts have limited resources to support technology at dispersed sites, so they tend to seek products that are easy to implement and maintain. To facilitate effective implementation, we offer on-site product training, technical installation, implementation management, consulting, and professional development services. To help our customers obtain the best possible student achievement results, our product training and professional development sessions provide an extensive hands-on introduction to our products, “best practices” implementation strategies, and an introduction to the science behind our products. We also offer implementation management services and consulting on data analysis and interpretation, intervention and motivation strategies, connecting with classroom teachers and other topics of interest to the customer. We host national and regional Circle of Learning user conferences and a spectrum of forums, workshops, and seminars for customers and prospective customers. At these gatherings, speakers provide information on advances in neuroscience and learning and current customers offer actual case studies on how Fast ForWord products impact student achievement. These sessions provide Fast ForWord users with opportunities to network and develop informal support relationships. PROGRESS TRACKER We offer the Progress Tracker Internet-based data analysis and reporting tool to maximize the effectiveness of implementations of the Language and Reading Series products. This easy-to-use web-based tool provides detailed reports on the student, classroom, school and district level, permitting educators to see exactly how individuals and groups are progressing on specific skills. The Progress Tracker system provides both diagnostic and prescriptive information, giving educators timely and specific intervention strategies. Progress Tracker data can be reported by subgroup, providing a tool for educators to analyze their progress towards their Annual Yearly Progress Page 8 requirements, which are mandated by NCLB. Progress Tracker also provides correlations that align the Fast ForWord products to state learning standards and selected core reading programs. Customers can configure the system to send automatic emails to parents, administrators or others to provide easy periodic updates. SUPPORT For customers who purchase our support services, we provide progress monitoring, software maintenance releases, and extensive telephone, email and web-based support. Our progress monitoring services provide customers on-going remote monitoring of their students’ progress by our staff, with periodic out-bound telephone contact tailored to the customer’s level of progress and use. Our Customer Connect Website provides extensive implementation and technical resources, together with Web-based seminars. In our customer surveys, customers using Fast ForWord products generally give excellent ratings to the support they receive and the professionalism of our support team. WARRANTY We generally provide a warranty that our software products operate substantially as described in the manuals and guides that accompany the software for a period of 90 days. The warranty excludes damage from misuse, accident, and certain other circumstances. To date, we have not experienced any significant warranty expense. STRATEGY Our strategic growth plan focuses on four key elements. Our first key strategic goal is for the mainstream reading intervention market to accept our products as effectively meeting the needs of struggling readers of all grade levels. Critical elements of our strategy to expand our market acceptance are: • Expanding our product line through product development, partnering and/or acquisition so that we offer a more complete reading intervention product suite; • Improving the results achieved by our customers by making our implementation, support and service models more systematic, sustainable and effective; and • Building brand awareness based on our key differentiator – that our products build learning capacity, as well as our patented neuroscience-based technology, and the fast, effective, enduring and proven results of our products. Our second key strategy is to increase the size of our K-12 sales force while improving sales force productivity. We focus particularly on selling to districts and geographic areas with a high need for our products and sufficient funding to purchase. Initial sales to a school district are typically small with the goal of then moving to a district-level multi-site transaction. Third, we seek to build a sustainable competitive advantage by both providing credible research demonstrating the efficacy of our products and establishing the importance of scientific method and outcomes research for selecting educational products and services. Our heritage supports us in accomplishing this strategy. Our products are based on more than 30 years of neuroscience and cognitive research, and the technology on which our initial products were developed grew out of a scientific collaboration between neuroscientists from two major research universities. From the founding of our company, we have devoted significant resources to demonstrating that our products improve learning, and we continue to accumulate outcomes data from students in classrooms across the country. Our final key strategy is to opportunistically position for growth outside the K-12 reading intervention market in United States and Canada. In 2005, we significantly expanded our network of independent value added resellers outside North America, and focused more resources on the corrections market in the United States. Although we are pursuing our strategy vigorously, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve our strategic objectives. SALES AND MARKETING We sell to our principal market, K-12 school districts throughout the United States, primarily using a direct sales force. During 2005, our average number of field sales representatives grew by 33% compared to 2004. These sales personnel typically are experienced professionals with backgrounds in selling technology-based curriculum products to the K-12 market. Most bring strong relationships with educators built over many years. We support our sales representatives with a strong field sales management team with extensive experience in this market and with Page 9 strategic consultants, who frequently are retired school district superintendents and other senior district administrators, and who have extensive experience and relationships in K-12 education. To reach smaller and rural schools, to a limited extent we also sell our products through school consortiums and regional service centers. Our field sales force also sells to the corrections market. To market our products, we conduct and participate in sponsored events for educational decision-makers, at which we explain the uniqueness and value of the Fast ForWord solution, conduct direct marketing campaigns and participate in selected trade shows. In our marketing, we emphasize the unique characteristics of our solution, our neuroscience research basis, and our proven impact on student achievement. On our scientificlearning.com website, we post results reports documenting the student gains our customers have achieved at schools throughout the U.S. We sell to clinical professionals, learning centers, hospitals and clinics principally through direct marketing (mail, web and telesales) and conferences (both industry conferences and forums we conduct ourselves). We are also building a network of independent value-added resellers outside North America. At December 31, 2005, we had relationships with fifteen resellers. While to date booked sales outside North America have not been significant, our goal is to build this distribution channel as a base for future growth in the longer term.* COMPETITION The educational market in which we operate is very competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the industry are ability to deliver measurable improvements in student achievement, cost, reputation, existing relationships with customers, completeness of the product offering, ability to provide effective and efficient product implementation, and ability to complement and supplement the school curriculum. We believe that generally we compete favorably on the basis of these factors. Our products are highly differentiated by their neuroscience basis and their focus on the development of learning capacity through improving cognitive skills. However, we compete vigorously for available funding against other companies offering educational software and other language and reading programs, as well as with providers of traditional methods of teaching language and reading. Many of the companies providing these competitive offerings are much larger than Scientific Learning, are more established in the school market than we are, offer a broader range of products to schools, and have greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Competitors may enter our market segment and offer actual or claimed results similar to those achieved by our products. In addition, although the traditional approaches to language and reading are fundamentally different from the approach we take, the traditional methods are more widely known and accepted and, therefore, represent significant competition for available funds. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The markets in which we compete are characterized by frequent product introductions and evolving educational standards and approaches. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue to enhance and update our existing products or to develop and successfully introduce new products. Our research and development expenses were approximately $3.9 million, $3.6 million, and $3.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. At December 31, 2005, 23 of our employees were engaged in research and development activities, which include both product development and outcomes research. DEVELOPMENT Our development efforts focus on making our products more effective and easier to use and broadening our product solution. All of our current development efforts are focused on products related to reading and language, principally for use in a school environment. Our products rely on market-tested technology and uniform platforms and are developed in a shared authoring environment, so that customers can easily broaden their Fast ForWord implementations, as well as move students easily among our products. We analyze the data that is uploaded through our Progress Tracker tool to identify trends in product use and efficacy and help us develop improvements to our products. Page 10 In 2005 we launched two products in our Fast ForWord to Reading series, Fast ForWord to Reading Prep and Fast ForWord to Reading 5. We also launched Fast ForWord Language Basics and extensive enhancements to our Progress Tracker Internet data system. We expect to launch additional products during 2006. We cannot guarantee that we will meet our intended introduction schedule for future products, or that future products will be free of technical issues or be well received in the market. RESEARCH Our company was founded by neuroscientists, and our products are based on the learning from more than 30 years of neuroscience and cognitive research. We continue to support research to demonstrate the outcomes of our products, as well as to identify and support new product and product improvement opportunities. We believe that the emphasis in the No Child Left Behind Act on scientifically based instructional approaches validates our long-standing support of research on the efficacy of our products, which has included projects at some of the country’s top research universities. Support of Outcomes Research School districts throughout the country are studying the impact of Fast ForWord products on their students’ reading achievement. Many of these studies focus on outcomes related to state standards and accompanying state assessment programs. We encourage these studies, assist with data analysis when appropriate and make results available on our Scientific Learning web site. Researchers at Stanford University are completing a randomized controlled study on the effects of using multiple Fast ForWord products. The study includes students at a wide variety of skill levels, ranging from just below proficient to well below proficient. An advisory board of reading research experts is monitoring the research design, methods and data analyses procedures. The students have completed their Fast ForWord product use, all data has been collected and the researchers are in the process of analyzing the results. We provided a donation to the Haan Foundation to fund a portion of the study. In 2005, researchers at Hong Kong Polytechnic University completed a controlled study of the impact of the Fast ForWord Language products on Cantonese-speaking children who were poor readers in both English and Chinese relative to their peers. We supported this study by providing complimentary product licenses. A preliminary report of the results indicates that the students who used the Fast ForWord product improved their reading skills in both English and Chinese. Product Enhancements and New Products The data that is uploaded to our database from participants who use our products is a unique and valuable resource for improving our products. Analyzing the patterns among groups of participants allows us to understand, in detail, how students generally progress, where students have difficulty and where intervention might be appropriate. We continue to explore potential product enhancements and alternative usage protocols that will make our products more useful to educators and more effective for students. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our intellectual property strategy addresses both product technology and product concepts. Our policy is to protect our proprietary rights in our products and technology through a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions. At December 31, 2005, we held 51 issued U.S. patents and ten pending U.S. applications. We also held four issued patents from other countries and had 11 applications pending abroad. We were the exclusive licensee under 11 issued U.S. patents, three issued foreign patents, and one pending foreign patent application. The U.S. patents expire between 2014 and 2019. We also have 15 U.S. trademark registrations, including registrations for marks including “Fast ForWord,” our most important trademark. The patents and applications that we license are owned by the Regents of the University of California and Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, and relate to the basic speech and sound modification and adaptive technology Page 11 developed at those institutions. In 2005, approximately 53% of our product booked sales were derived from selling products that use the licensed inventions. This license is exclusive and extends for the life of the University patents, which expire in 2014. If we were to lose our rights under this license, it would materially harm our business. This license requires payment of royalties based upon cumulative net booked sales of our products, subject to certain minimum royalty amounts. In 2006 and each year thereafter, the minimum royalty payment is $150,000. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, we had approximately $1,082,000, $746,000 and $939,000, respectively in royalty expense under the license. In September 2003, we transferred certain of our technology to Posit Science Corporation (“PSC”) (formerly named Neuroscience Solutions Corporation) for use in the healthcare field. The transaction included a license of the patents we own, a sublicense of the patents we license from the University of California and Rutgers, the license of certain software we developed, and the sale of some research-related assets. All of the rights licensed to PSC are limited to the healthcare field and most of the licenses are exclusive in that field. We continue to use the licensed patents and technology in the fields of education and speech and language therapy, and retain all rights to our technology outside of the specified healthcare field. The rights were acquired by PSC for a combination of cash, stock, and future royalties. The two companies also have agreed to share certain additional technology as it is developed. PSC is a San Francisco-based company that is developing a series of software-based products for healthcare markets based on research in neuroplasticity. PSC’s first products focus on issues of aging. Dr. Michael M. Merzenich, who is a founder, director, significant stockholder and former officer of the Company, is also a founder, director, significant shareholder and officer of PSC. SEASONALITY Our quarterly booked sales and revenue fluctuate seasonally, reflecting a number of factors including school purchasing practices, budget cycles and instructional periods. Historically, our booked sales have been lowest in the first quarter of the year. BACKLOG Our deferred revenue was approximately $17.0 million and $25.8 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These deferred revenues are primarily composed of the portion of multi-year sales, term-based sales, support and Progress Tracker sales not yet recognized as revenue, and professional development and technical services that have not yet been performed. Approximately $5.8 million of our deferred revenue as of December 31, 2005 is expected to be recognized subsequent to December 31, 2006. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION As of December 31, 2005, we had 173 full-time and five part-time employees. We believe our relations with employees are good. None of our employees is represented by a union or subject to collective bargaining agreements. In addition to our Customer Connect support website, we also maintain the scientificlearning.com and brainconnection.com websites. Scientificlearning.com provides information about our company and our products and services, including reports detailing our products’ impact on student achievement. Brainconnection.com provides practical, easily understandable information about how the brain works and how students learn, web-based professional development courses on the brain, language, and reading, and links to information about Fast ForWord products that relate to the topics discussed on the site. We are a Delaware corporation. We incorporated in 1995 in California under the name Scientific Learning Principles Corporation and reincorporated in 1997 in Delaware under our present name, Scientific Learning Corporation. Page 12 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors as well as other information contained in this report should be considered in making any investment decision related to our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. To grow our business, we need to increase acceptance of our products among K-12 education purchasers. Failure to do so would materially and adversely impact our revenue, profitability and growth prospects. We believe that to date most educators who have used Fast ForWord products are “early adopters.” Early adopters make up a relatively small proportion of our K-12 market, so in order to grow our revenue and profit, we need to increase our booked sales beyond early adopters to more conservative customers. We believe that our ability to grow acceptance of our products in the conservative K-12 education market will depend largely on the critical factors discussed below. Our Fast ForWord products use an approach that differs from the approaches that schools have traditionally used to address reading problems. In particular, our products work because they increase learning capacity, are based on neuroscience research and focus on the development of cognitive skills. All of these concepts may be unfamiliar to educators. K-12 educational practices are slow to change, and it can be difficult to convince educators of the value of a substantially different approach. In order to obtain the best student results from using our product, schools must follow a recommended protocol for Fast ForWord use, which requires a substantial amount of time out of a limited and already crowded school day. Our recommendation that schools follow a prescribed protocol in using our products may limit the number of schools willing to purchase from us. In addition, if our products are not used in accordance with the protocol, they may not produce the expected student results, which may lead to customer dissatisfaction and decreased booked sales. Our products are generally implemented in a computer lab with a lab coach or teacher rather than in the classroom with the students’ regular classroom teachers. To better reach mainstream customers, encourage additional booked sales from existing customers and improve student achievement results, we need to better engage classroom teachers in the products’ implementation, in an effective and efficient manner. We encourage our customers to purchase significant levels of field service because we believe that these services enable more effective product use and lead to stronger student achievement gains. If we are unable to continue to convince customers to purchase these levels of service, customers may experience more difficulty with their implementations. If we are unable to convince our market of the value of our significantly different approach and otherwise overcome the challenges identified above, our booked sales and growth prospects could be materially and adversely impacted and our profitability could decline. It is difficult to accurately forecast our future financial results, and we believe that in 2006, our quarterly revenue has become more difficult to predict. This may cause us to fail to achieve the financial performance anticipated by investors and financial analysts, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Our booked sales, revenues and net income or loss are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter as a result of many factors, including those discussed below. A significant proportion of our customers’ purchases are made within the last two weeks of each quarter. We therefore have limited visibility on actual booked sales for the quarter until the end of the quarter. If a customer unexpectedly postpones or cancels an expected purchase due to changes in the customer’s objectives, priorities, budget or personnel, we may experience an unexpected booked sales shortfall that cannot be made up in the quarter. The timing of the recognition of revenue from our booked sales can also be unpredictable. Our various license and service packages have substantially differing revenue recognition periods, and it may be difficult to predict which license package a customer will purchase, even when the amount and timing of a sale can be projected. Page 13 Since our December 2004 pricing change, we recognize revenue from most of our perpetual license sales at the time of sale. Before that change, perpetual license revenue was recognized over the related service period. Because of this transition, in 2005 we recognized substantial revenue from perpetual licenses booked in 2003 and 2004, as well as perpetual license sales in 2005. In 2006, we expect that much more of our perpetual license revenue in each quarter will be derived from sales in that quarter.* Because our booked sales are difficult to predict, our quarterly perpetual license revenue has therefore become more unpredictable. In addition, our sales strategy emphasizes large, district-level, multi-site transactions. The receipt or implementation of a single large order, or conversely its loss or delay, can significantly impact the level of sales booked and revenue recognized in a given quarter. Our expense levels are based on our expectations of future booked sales and are primarily fixed in the short term. We may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected booked sales shortfall, which could cause our net income to fluctuate unexpectedly. Failure to achieve the financial results expected by investors and financial analysts in a given quarter could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. Our current liquidity resources may not be sufficient to meet our needs. We believe that cash flow from operations will be our primary source of funding for our operations during 2006 and the next several years.* In 2003 and 2004 we generated $3.9 and $6.3 million respectively in cash from operating activities. In 2005, we used $2.1 million in cash in our operating activities, reflecting the decline in our booked sales and higher expenses to support our growth goals. We expect to again generate positive cash flow from operations in 2006.* This will require us to achieve certain levels of booked sales and expenses. In addition, we have a line of credit with Comerica Bank totaling $5.0 million, which expires June 2, 2007. At December 31, 2005 no borrowings were outstanding and we were in compliance with the covenants of that line. If we are unable to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow from operations, or are unable to obtain waivers or amendments from Comerica in the event we do not comply with our covenants, we would be required either to obtain debt or equity financing from other sources, or to reduce expenses. Reducing our expenses could adversely affect our operations by reducing the resources available for sales, marketing, research or development efforts. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Our sales cycle tends to be long and somewhat unpredictable, which may result in delayed or lost revenue, which could materially and adversely impact our revenue and net income. Like other companies in the instructional market, our booked sales to K-12 schools are affected by school purchasing cycles and procedures, which can be quite bureaucratic. The cost of some of our K-12 license packages requires multiple levels of approval in a political environment, which results in a time-consuming sales cycle that can be difficult to predict. When a district decides to finance its license purchase, the time required to obtain necessary approvals can be extended even further. In addition, booked sales to schools are subject to budgeting constraints, which may require schools to find available discretionary funds, obtain grants or wait until subsequent budget cycles. As a result, our sales cycle generally takes several months, and in some cases, can take a year or longer. Therefore, we may devote significant time and energy to a particular customer sale over the course of many months, and then not make the sale when expected or at all. This can result in lower revenue and lost opportunities that can materially and adversely impact our revenue and net income. Throughout 2005, we have seen educational decision makers grow more cautious in their decision-making, further lengthening our sales cycle. The restatement of our financial statements has increased the possibility of legal or administrative proceedings against us. In December 2004, based on our review of a major contract that we booked in June 2004, our management and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors concluded that we should change our revenue recognition method for most of our K-12 school contracts. This change in our revenue recognition method reflected a correction in our application of AICPA Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition (as amended by Statement of Page 14 Position 98-9) to most of our historical K-12 school contracts. As a result, we restated our financial statements for the period from 2000 through June 30, 2004, as described in more detail in our Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2003, our Reports on Form 10-Q/A for the quarters ended March 31, 2004 and June 30, 2004 and our Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, all filed February 15, 2005. In May 2005 our management determined that a portion of 2004 deferred revenue had been misclassified as long-term deferred revenue when it should have been classified as current deferred revenue. As a result, we restated our balance sheet as of December 31, 2004 in our Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed on May 26, 2005. As a result of these events, we have become subject to the following risks: • We have incurred substantial unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees. • There is a risk that our investors may bring a class action lawsuit against us and our directors and officers based on the restatement of our historical financial statements. If such actions were to be brought, it is likely that we would incur substantial defense costs regardless of their outcome. Likewise, such actions might cause a diversion of our management’s time and attention. If such actions were brought and we did not prevail, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs. • There is a risk that the Securities and Exchange Commission may undertake an investigation of our company in light of the restatement of our historical financial statements. If any such investigation were commenced, it would likely divert more of our management’s time and attention and cause us to incur substantial costs. Such investigations could also lead to fines or injunctions or orders with respect to future activities. In addition, the restatement reflected a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. To address this material weakness, we hired additional accounting staff and implemented changes in our processes, procedures and controls relating to revenue and deferred revenue. Although our management has concluded and the Audit Committee has concurred that, at December 31, 2005, we no longer have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will not detect additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future, further compounding the risks identified above. We may be unable to continue to be profitable. We started operations in February 1996 and through 2002 incurred significant operating losses. We first became profitable in 2003, incurred a net loss in 2004 and were again profitable in 2005. We expect that in 2006 we will record a net loss,* partially because of the implementation of FAS 123(R), which requires us to record compensation expense for employee stock awards. At December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $78.1 million from inception. Our strategic and operating goals include increasing our booked sales and cash flow. In 2005, our booked sales fell approximately 15% from 2004. Our ability to achieve increased booked sales and cash flow depends on many factors, including but not limited to market acceptance of our products, availability of funding, customers’ prior experience with our products, and general economic conditions, some of which are outside of our control. To meet our booked sales targets, we will need to incur substantial expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will meet our targets with respect to booked sales, revenues or operating results. We rely on studies of student performance results to demonstrate the effectiveness of our products. If the validity of these studies or the conclusions that we draw from them are challenged, our reputation could be harmed and our business prospects and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We rely heavily on statistical studies of student results on assessments to demonstrate that our Fast ForWord products lead to improved student achievement. Reliance on these studies to support our claims about the effectiveness of our products involves risks, including the following: • The results of studies depend on schools’ appropriately implementing the products and adhering to the product protocol. If a school does not do so, the study may not show that our products produce substantial student improvements. Page 15 • Some studies on which we rely may be challenged because the studies use a limited sample size, lack a randomly selected control group, include assistance or participation from the Company or its scientists, or have other design characteristics that are not optimal. These challenges may assert that these studies are not sufficiently rigorous or free from bias, and may lead to criticism of the validity of the studies and the conclusions that we draw from them. • Schools studying the effectiveness of our products use the product with different types of students and use different assessments, sometimes making it difficult to aggregate or compare results. Our sales and marketing efforts, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted if the studies upon which we rely to demonstrate the effectiveness of our products, or the conclusions we draw from those studies, are seen to be insufficient. The recent federal NCLB legislation has placed an increasing emphasis on the need for scientifically-based research. To the extent that scientifically based research becomes more important to the education market, challenges to the research that we use in marketing our products could become more potentially harmful to us. Claims relating to data collection from our user base may subject us to liabilities and additional expense. Schools and clinicians that use our products frequently use students’ names to register them in our products and enter into our database academic, diagnostic and/or demographic information about the students. In addition, the results of student use of our products are uploaded to our database. We have designed our system to safeguard this personally-identifiable information, but the protection of such information is an area of increasing public concern and significant government regulation, including but not limited to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act. If our privacy protection measures prove to be ineffective, we could be subject to liability claims for unauthorized access to or misuses of personally-identifiable information stored in our database. We may also face additional expenses to analyze and comply with increasing regulation in this area. We may experience difficulties in launching new products efficiently, without significant technical issues, and on schedule. This could materially slow booked sales or decrease profitability. We launched three new products in 2005 and we expect to launch additional products in 2006 and future years.* Unexpected challenges could make these development projects longer or more expensive than planned. In addition, new technology products usually contain bugs that are not discovered in the testing process, and tend to be more challenging to implement when they are first introduced, especially in the diverse and challenging K-12 technology environment. Any significant defect or deficiency in our products could cause customers to cancel or delay orders, cause us to incur significant expenses remedying the problem, and harm our reputation. Booked sales of our products depend on the availability of government funding for public school reading intervention purchases, which is variable and outside the control of both us and our direct customers. If such funding becomes less available, our public school customers may be unable to purchase our products and services on a scale or at prices that we anticipate, which would materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability. US public schools are funded primarily through state and local tax revenues, which are devoted primarily to school building costs, teacher salaries and general operating expenses. Public schools also receive funding from the federal government through a variety of federal programs, many of which target children who are poor and/or are struggling academically. Federal funds typically are restricted to specified uses. We believe that the funding for a substantial portion of our K-12 booked sales comes from federal funding, in particular special education and Title 1 funding. The current federal budget deficit and competing federal priorities may impact the availability of federal education funding. A cutback in federal education funding could slow our booked sales. State and local school funding can be significantly impacted by fluctuations in tax revenues due to changing economic conditions. We expect that future levels of state and local school spending will continue to be significantly affected by the general economic conditions and outlook. A downturn in the economy might slow our booked sales. Increased energy costs for schools may also affect the level of resources available for purchasing our products. We compete for sales with companies that have longer histories and greater resources than we do. We may not be able to compete effectively in the education market. Page 16 The market in which we operate is very competitive. While our products are highly differentiated by their neuroscience basis and their focus on the development of cognitive skills, we nevertheless compete vigorously for the funding available to schools. We compete not only against other software-based reading intervention products but also against print and service-based offerings from other companies and against traditional methods of teaching language and reading. Many of the companies providing these competitive offerings are much larger than Scientific Learning, are more established in the school market than we are, offer a broader range of products to schools, and have greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Encouraged by the No Child Left Behind Act, new competitors may enter our market segment and offer actual or claimed results similar to those achieved by our products. In addition, although traditional approaches to language and reading are fundamentally different from our approach, the traditional methods are more widely known and accepted and, therefore, represent significant competition for available funds. We are not yet required to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404. We are presently engaged in a process of evaluating and documenting our internal control over financial reporting with the goal of achieving compliance no later than the end of 2007. The process is very costly and requires significant internal resources. If we are unable to comply with Section 404 when we are required to do so or are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, such non compliance or ineffective controls could have a materially adverse effect on us. Under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404, as implemented by the SEC and PCAOB, we will be required to provide a management report and auditors’ attestation and report on our internal control over financial reporting. We have not previously been subject to this requirement. Under current rules, our deadline for compliance will be December 31, 2007, but it could be accelerated to December 31, 2006 if we become an “accelerated filer” under the US securities laws as of December 31, 2006. We will not know whether we will become an “accelerated filer” as of December 31, 2006 until June 30, 2006. Historically, we have understood the importance of internal control over financial reporting, and on an ongoing basis, we evaluate our controls, assess whether we should improve them and when appropriate, implement improvements. In connection with our restatements in 2005, we concluded that we had a material weakness in our internal controls relating to revenue and deferred revenue. To address this material weakness, we hired additional accounting staff and we implemented changes in our processes, procedures and controls relating to revenue and deferred revenue. In connection with the audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, management concluded and the Audit Committee concurred that, at December 31, 2005, we no longer have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that, in the course of implementing our processes to achieve compliance with Section 404, we will not detect additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we lose key personnel or are unable to hire additional qualified personnel as necessary, we may not be able to achieve our business goals, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results and share price. We depend on the performance of Robert Bowen, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and on other senior management, sales, marketing, development, research, educational, finance and other administrative personnel with extensive experience in our industry and with our Company. The loss of key personnel could harm our ability to execute our business strategy, which could adversely affect our financial results and share price. In addition, we believe that our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to identify, hire, retain and motivate highly skilled employees who are in great demand. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we infringe on the rights of others, we could become subject to significant liabilities, need to seek licenses or lose our rights to sell our products. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on whether we are able to maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. It is possible that our issued patents will not offer sufficient protection against competitors with similar technology, that our trademarks will be challenged or infringed by competitors, or that our pending patent applications will not result in the issuance of patents. In addition, we could become party to patent or trademark infringement claims, litigation or interference proceedings. These proceedings could result from claims that we are violating the rights of others or may be necessary to enforce our own rights. Any such proceedings would result in substantial expense and significant diversion of management effort. Page 17 An adverse determination in such proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our most important products are based on licensed inventions owned by two universities. If we were to lose our rights under this license, it would materially harm our business. The licensor may terminate the license if we fail to perform our obligations and do not timely cure the violation. We believe that we are currently in compliance with the license in all material respects. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates effectively control the voting power of our company. At December 31, 2005, Warburg, Pincus Ventures, our largest shareholder, owned approximately 46% of the Company’s outstanding stock and, in the aggregate, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates held more than 60% of the outstanding stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, and may have interests that diverge from those of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also delay, prevent or deter a change in control of our company. Our common stock is thinly traded and its price is volatile. Our common stock presently trades on the Nasdaq National Market, and our trading volume is low. For example, during 2005, our average daily trading volume was approximately 15,111 shares. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile since our July 1999 initial public offering and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 