Risk Factors—Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets and could negatively affect our operating results and cash flows.” 12 Table of Contents Backlog For a detailed discussion of backlog, we incorporate by reference the information in Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the heading Financial Trends, Backlog. Available Information We were incorporated in California in March 1991 and were reincorporated in Delaware in October 1997. We maintain a site on the world-wide web at www.chordiant.com; however, information found on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge on or through our website our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The matters relating to the Audit Committee of the Board’s review of our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements have required us to incur substantial expenses, have resulted in litigation, and may result in additional litigation and future government enforcement actions. On July 24, 2006, the Company announced that the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors, with the assistance of independent legal counsel, was conducting a review of our stock option practices covering the time from the Company’s initial public offering in 2000 through June 2006. As described in the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, and in Note 3 “Restatement of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Form 10-K, the Audit Committee reached a conclusion that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for stock option grants in certain prior periods. As a result, the Company has recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, related to certain stock option grants, and the Company has restated certain previously filed financial statements included in the Form 10-K. This review of our historical stock option granting practices has required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, has diverted our management’s attention from our business, and could in the future adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. Several derivative complaints have been filed pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants. We cannot assure you that these or future similar complaints or any future litigation or regulatory action will result in the same conclusions reached by the Audit Committee. The conduct and resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. We contacted the SEC regarding the Audit Committee’s review and, in July 2006, the SEC commenced an investigation into our historical stock option grant practices. In November 2006, a representative of the Audit Committee and its advisors met with the enforcement staff of the SEC and provided them with a report of the Audit Committee’s investigation and findings. In January 2007, the enforcement staff of the SEC notified the Company that its investigation had been terminated and no enforcement action had been recommended to the Commission. The finding of the Audit Committee’s review are more fully described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006. We may be subject to further investigation by the SEC or litigation by private parties in connection with the restatement of our interim financial statements for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2004, June 30, 2004, September 30, 2004, December 31, 2004, March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005, December 31, 2005, and March 31, 2006 and the fiscal years ended 2001, 2002, 2003, 2005 and nine months ended September 30, 2004. In March 2005, we concluded that our interim financial statements for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2004 should no longer be relied upon because of various errors in such financial statements. We restated those financial statements, which were reported in our 2004 Transition Report on Form 10-K/T filed with the SEC on March 29, 2005. Additionally, in the course of preparing our 2005 financial results for the year ended September 30, 2005, the Company and its independent registered public accounting firm, BDO Seidman, LLP, identified certain errors in the Company’s 2005 interim financial statements for the quarters ended December 31, 2004, March 31, 2005, and June 30, 2005 and management concluded that as a result of these errors, the Company should restate the Company’s interim financial statements for these quarters. These errors are more fully described in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on December 9, 2005. On November 26, 2006, the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee and management concluded that Chordiant would restate its historical financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003, the nine-month period ended September 30, 2004, the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, and the quarters ended December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2006. These errors are more fully described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report. Section 408 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) requires that the SEC review a public company’s filings no less frequently than once every 3 years. The SEC’s staff in the Division of Corporation Finance in Washington D.C. has reviewed the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 and has commented on the annual report to which the Company has provided written responses. The SEC may begin an investigation or we may be subject to private litigation, which could require significant management and financial resources which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. If we are subject to an SEC investigation or civil litigation, we could be required to pay penalties or damages or have other remedies imposed upon us. In addition, we could become the target of expensive securities litigation related to other matters in the future. Any SEC investigation or litigation could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 14 Table of Contents Historically, we have not been profitable and we may continue to incur losses, which may raise vendor viability concerns thereby making it more difficult to close license transactions with new and existing customers. We incurred losses of $16.0 million and $19.9 million for the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of September 30, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $232.9 million. We may continue to incur losses and cannot be certain that we can generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability. Continued losses may leave many customers reluctant to enter into new large value license transactions without some assurance that we will operate profitably. If we fail to enter into new large value license transactions due to lack of vendor profitability and or viability concerns, our revenues will decline, which could further adversely affect our operating results. Because a small number of customers account for a substantial portion of our revenues, the loss of a significant customer could cause a substantial decline in our revenues. We derive a significant portion of our license and service revenues from a limited number of customers. The loss of a major customer could cause a decrease in revenues and net income. For the year ended September 30, 2006, Citicorp Credit Services accounted for 12% of our total revenue. While our customer concentration has fluctuated, we expect that a limited number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues. As a result, if we lose a major customer, or if a contract is delayed or cancelled or we do not contract with new major customers, our revenues and net loss would be adversely affected. In addition, customers that have accounted for significant revenues in the past may not generate revenues in any future period, causing our failure to obtain new significant customers or additional orders from existing customers to materially affect our operating results. If we fail to adequately address the difficulties of managing our international operations, our revenues and operating expenses will be adversely affected. For the year ended September 30, 2006, international revenues were $37.5 million or approximately 38% of our total revenues. While North American revenues have increased recently as a percentage of our overall revenues, international revenues will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues in future periods. We have faced, and will continue to face, difficulties in managing international operations which include: • Difficulties in hiring qualified local personnel; • Seasonal fluctuations in customer orders; • Longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • Expenses associated with licensing products and servicing customers in foreign markets; • Economic downturns and political uncertainty in international economies; and • Expectations of European economic growth that is lower than for the US. Any of these factors could have a significant impact on our ability to license products on a competitive and timely basis and could adversely affect our operating expenses and net income. Additionally we closed our only French office in the first fiscal quarter of 2007. The absence of a business office in France may harm our ability to attract and retain customers in that country. Our known backlog of business may not result in revenue. An increasingly material portion of our revenues has been derived from large orders, as major customers deployed our products. We define backlog as contractual commitments by our customers through purchase orders or contracts. Backlog is comprised of software license orders which have not been accepted by customers or have not otherwise met all of the required criteria for revenue recognition, deferred revenue from customer support contracts, and deferred consulting and education orders for services not yet completed or delivered. Backlog is not necessarily indicative of revenues to be recognized in a specified future period. There are many factors that would impact the Company’s filling of backlog, such as the Company’s progress in completing projects for its customers and Chordiant’s customers’ meeting anticipated schedules for customer-dependent deliverables. The Company provides no assurances that any portion of its backlog will be filled during any fiscal year or at all or that its backlog will be recognized as revenues in any given period. In addition, it is possible that customers from whom we expect to derive revenue from backlog will default and as a result we may not be able to recognize expected revenue from backlog. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets and could negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents A significant portion of our sales and operating expenses result from transactions outside of the United States, often in foreign currencies. These currencies include the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Euro and the Canadian Dollar. Our international sales comprised 38% of our total sales for the year ended September 30, 2006. Our international sales comprised 50% of our total sales for the year ended September 30, 2005. Our future operating results will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates, especially if international sales grow as a percentage of our total sales, and we may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future. For the year ended September 30, 2006, we had an unrealized foreign currency translation gain of approximately $1.2 million. Geopolitical concerns could make the closing of license transactions with new and existing customers difficult. Our revenues will decrease in fiscal year 2007 or beyond if we are unable to enter into new large-scale license transactions with new and existing customers. The current state of world affairs and geopolitical concerns have left many customers reluctant to enter into new large value license transactions without some assurance that the economy both in the customer’s home country and worldwide will have some economic and political stability. Geopolitical instability will continue to make closing large license transactions difficult. In addition, we cannot predict what effect the U.S. military presence overseas or potential or actual political or military conflict have had or are continuing to have on our existing and prospective customers’ decision-making process with respect to licensing or implementing enterprise-level products such as ours. Our ability to enter into new large license transactions also directly affects our ability to create additional consulting services and maintenance revenues, on which we also depend. Competition in our markets is intense and could reduce our sales and prevent us from achieving profitability. Increased competition in our markets could result in price reductions for our products and services, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any one of which could reduce our future revenues. The market for our products is intensely competitive, evolving and subject to rapid technological change. Historically, our primary competition has been from internal development, custom systems integration projects and application software competitors. In particular, we compete with: • Internal information technology departments: in-house information technology departments of potential customers have developed or may develop systems that provide some or all of the functionality of our products. We expect that internally developed application integration and process automation efforts will continue to be a significant source of competition. • Custom systems integration projects: we compete with large systems integrators who may develop custom solutions for specific companies which may reduce the likelihood that they would purchase our products and services. • Point application vendors: we compete with providers of stand-alone point solutions for web-based customer relationship management and traditional client/server-based, call-center service customer and sales-force automation solution providers. In addition, recent continuing consolidation in the software industry during 2006 may indicate that we will face new competitors in the future. Within the year Oracle completed an acquisition of i-flex Solutions Ltd., a banking software maker headquartered in Mumbai, India. In 2005 Oracle had purchased a 43% stake in the company. Also in 2006, IBM acquired Webify, a provider of middleware to companies primarily in the insurance industry. In addition, in September 2005, IBM had acquired DWL, a provider of middleware to companies in the banking, insurance, retail and telecommunications industries. In January 2006, Oracle acquired Siebel Systems, Inc., a maker of customer relationship management software products. Siebel Systems, Inc. was a competitor of ours. While we do not believe that either i-flex Solutions, DWL or Webify have been significant competitors of Chordiant in the past, the acquisition of these companies by Oracle and IBM may indicate that we will face increased competition from significantly larger and more established entities in the future. Many of our competitors have greater resources and broader customer relationships than we do. In addition, many of these competitors have extensive knowledge of our industry. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to offer a single solution and to increase the ability of their products to address customer needs. We may experience a shortfall in revenue, earnings, cash flow or otherwise fail to meet public market expectations, which could materially and adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of these factors include: • Size and timing of individual license transactions; 16 Table of Contents • Delay or deferral of customer implementations of our products and subsequent impact on revenues; • Lengthening of our sales cycle; • Potential additional deterioration and changes in domestic and foreign markets and economies; • Success in expanding our global services organization, direct sales force and indirect distribution channels; • Timing of new product introductions and product enhancements; • Appropriate mix of products licensed and services sold; • Levels of international transactions; • Activities of and acquisitions by competitors; • Product and price competition; and • Our ability to develop and market new products and control costs. One or more of the foregoing factors may cause our operating expenses to be disproportionately high during any given period or may cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate significantly. Based upon the preceding factors, we may experience a shortfall in revenues and earnings or otherwise fail to meet public market expectations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. If our stockholders approve our proposed reverse stock split, our stock price may be adversely affected. On February 15, 2007, our stockholders will consider at a special meeting whether to approve a reverse split of our outstanding shares of common stock by a ratio of two and one-half (2.5) to 1 (the “Reverse Split”). If approved and our Board of Directors proceed to effect the Reverse Split, our stock price may decline back to pre-Reverse Stock split levels. If the Reverse Split is effected and the per share price of our common stock declines, the percentage decline as an absolute number and as a percentage of our overall market capitalization may be greater than would occur in the absence of the Reverse Split. Our operating results and cash flows fluctuate significantly and delays in delivery or implementation of our products or changes in the payment terms with customers may cause unanticipated declines in revenues or cash flow, which could disappoint investors and result in a decline in our stock price. Our quarterly revenues depend primarily upon product implementation by our customers. We have historically recognized a significant portion of our license and services revenue through the percentage-of-completion method, using labor hours incurred as the measure of progress towards completion of implementation of our products and we expect this practice to continue. The percentage of completion accounting method requires ongoing estimates of progress of complicated and frequently changing technology projects. Documenting the measure of progress towards completion of implementation is subject to potential errors and changes in estimates. As a result, even minor errors or minor changes in estimates may lead to significant changes in accounting results which may be revised in later quarters due to subsequent information and events. Thus, delays or changes in customer business goals or direction when implementing our software may negatively impact our quarterly revenue. Additionally, we may increasingly enter into term, subscription or transaction based licensing transactions that would cause us to recognize license revenue for such transactions over a longer period of time than we have historically experienced for our perpetual licenses. In addition, a significant portion of new customer orders have been booked in the third month of each calendar quarter, with many of these bookings occurring in the last two weeks of the third month. We expect this trend to continue and, therefore, any failure or delay in bookings would decrease our quarterly revenue and cash flows. The terms and conditions of individual license agreements with customers vary from transaction to transaction. Historically, the Company has been able to obtain prepayments for product in some cases. Other transactions link payment to the delivery or acceptance of products. In particular, we have deferred the recognition of all revenue from the license order from Citicorp Credit Services, Inc. that we received in December of 2006 pending our completion and delivery of a collections application that was one of the required elements under that license order. We currently anticipate that we will deliver the collections application in the third fiscal quarter of 2007 but any delay in our development or delivery of that application could result in a significant delay in our ability to recognize revenue from that license and may cause an unanticipated shortfall in our revenue. If we are unable to negotiate prepayments of fees our cash flows and financial ratios with respect to accounts receivable would be negatively impacted. If our revenues, operating margins or cash flows are below the expectations of the investment community, our stock price is likely to decline. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain and expand our relationships with systems integrators and other business partners, our ability to develop, market, sell, and support our products may be adversely affected. Our development, marketing and distribution strategies rely on our ability to form and maintain long-term strategic relationships with systems integrators, in particular, our existing business alliance partners, IBM, and Accenture. These business relationships often consist of joint marketing programs, technology partnerships and resale and distribution arrangements. Although most aspects of these relationships are contractual in nature, many important aspects of these relationships depend on the continued cooperation between the parties. Divergence in strategy, change in focus, competitive product offerings or potential contract defaults may interfere with our ability to develop, market, sell, or support our products, which in turn could harm our business. If either IBM or Accenture were to terminate their agreements with us or our relationship were to deteriorate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In many cases, these parties have extensive relationships with our existing and potential customers and influence the decisions of these customers. A number of our competitors have stronger relationships with IBM and Accenture and, as a result, these systems integrators may be more likely to recommend competitors’ products and services. In addition, in September 2005, IBM had acquired DWL, a provider of middleware to companies in the banking, insurance, retail and telecommunications industries. In 2006, IBM acquired Webify, a provider of middleware to companies primarily in the insurance industry. While we do not believe that either DWL or Webify had been a direct competitor of Chordiant in the past, IBM’s acquisition of DWL and Webify may indicate that IBM will become a competitor of ours in the future. While the Company currently has good relationship with IBM, this relationship and the Company’s strategic relationship agreement with IBM may be harmed if the Company increasingly finds itself competing with IBM. Our relationships with systems integrators and their willingness to recommend our products to their customers could be harmed if the Company were to be subject to a take over attempt from a competitor of such systems integrators. If systems integrators fail to properly implement our software, our business, reputation and financial results may be harmed. We are increasingly relying on systems integrators to implement our products, and this trend may continue. As a result, we have less quality control over the implementation of our software with respect to these transactions and are more reliant on the ability of our systems integrators to correctly implement our software. If these systems integrators fail to properly implement our software, our business, reputation and financial results may be harmed. Our primary products have a long sales and implementation cycle, which makes it difficult to predict our quarterly results and may cause our operating results to vary significantly. The period between initial contact with a prospective customer and the implementation of our products is unpredictable and often lengthy, ranging from three to twenty-four months. Thus, revenue and cash receipts could vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Any delays in the implementation of our products could cause reductions in our revenues. The licensing of our products is often an enterprise-wide decision that generally requires us to provide a significant level of education to prospective customers about the use and benefits of our products. The implementation of our products involves significant commitment of technical and financial resources and is commonly associated with substantial implementation efforts that may be performed by us, by the customer or by third-party systems integrators. If we underestimate the resources required to meet the expectations we have set with a customer when we set prices, then we may lose money on that customer engagement. If this happens with a large customer engagement, then this could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Customers generally consider a wide range of issues before committing to purchase our products, including product benefits, ability to operate with existing and future computer systems, vendor financial stability and longevity, ability to accommodate increased transaction volume and product reliability. If we do not improve our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting and customers may delay purchasing decisions, which would harm our business and the market price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business could be harmed. We are a complex company with complex accounting issues and thus subject to related risks of errors in financial reporting which may cause problems in corporate governance, the costs of which may outweigh the costs of the underlying errors themselves. For example, the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors, with the assistance of outside legal counsel, conducted a review of our stock option practices covering the time from the Company’s initial public offering in 2000 through September 2006. The Audit Committee reached a conclusion that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for stock option grants in certain prior periods. As a result, the Company has recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, related to stock option grants and concluded that a material weakness surrounding the control activities relating to the stock option grants existed at September 30, 2006. To correct these accounting errors, we restated the consolidated financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended June 30, 2006. As a result of this need to restate financial statements, management and the Audit Committee determined that material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed. These material weaknesses have contributed to increased expenses and efforts required for our financial reporting. 18 Table of Contents If we are not successful in implementing effective internal controls over financial reporting, customers may delay purchasing decisions or we may lose customers, create investor uncertainty, face litigation and the market price of our common stock may decline. For more information, please refer to the discussion under the heading “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we are not able to successfully manage our partner operations in India, our operations and financial results may be adversely affected. In fiscal year 2003, we entered into an agreement with Ness Technologies Inc., Ness Global Services, Inc. and Ness Technologies India, Ltd. (collectively, “Ness”), an independent contracting company with global technical resources and an operations center in Bangalore, India and operations in other locations. The agreement provides for Ness, at our direction, to attract, train, assimilate and retain sufficient highly qualified personnel to perform staffing for consulting projects, technical support, product test and certain sustaining engineering functions. As of September 30, 2006, we use the services of approximately 126 consultants through Ness. In addition, as a result of the reduction in our workforce that took place in July 2005, and the reduction in our workforce that took place in October 2006, by approximately 10% in each instance, we are now more dependent on Ness. The expansion of this agreement is an important component of our strategy to address the business needs of our customers and manage our expenses. The success of this operation will depend on our ability and Ness’s ability to attract, train, assimilate and retain highly qualified personnel in the required periods. A disruption of our relationship with Ness could adversely affect our operations. Failure to effectively manage the organization and operations will harm our business and financial results. We have incurred and may continue to incur, in future periods, significant stock-based compensation charges related to certain stock options and stock awards, which may adversely affect our reported financial results. On October 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS 123(R), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to the Company’s employees and directors including employee stock options, restricted stock awards and employee stock purchases related to the ESPP based on estimated fair values. For the year ended September 30, 2006, we recorded $4.7 million of compensation expense associated with these awards. Although the effect from the adoption of SFAS 123(R) is expected to continue to have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations, future changes to various assumptions used to determine the fair value of awards issued, or the amount and type of equity awards granted create uncertainty as to the amount of future stock-based compensation expense. If our products do not operate effectively in a company-wide environment, we may lose sales and suffer decreased revenues. If existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or choose not to fully deploy our products, it could damage our reputation and reduce revenues. Our success requires that our products be highly scalable, and able to accommodate substantial increases in the number of users. Our products are expected to be deployed on a variety of computer software and hardware platforms and to be used in connection with a number of third-party software applications by personnel who may not have previously used application software systems or our products. These deployments present very significant technical challenges, which are difficult or impossible to predict. If these deployments do not succeed, we may lose future sales opportunities and suffer decreased revenues. If we underestimate the resources required to meet the expectations we have set with a customer when we set prices, then we may lose money on that customer engagement. If this happens with a large customer engagement then this could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Defects in our products could diminish demand for our products and result in decreased revenues, decreased market acceptance and injury to our reputation. Errors may be found from time-to-time in our new, acquired or enhanced products. Any significant software errors in our products may result in decreased revenues, decreased sales, and injury to our reputation and/or increased warranty and repair costs. Although we conduct extensive product testing during product development, we have in the past discovered software errors in our products as well as in third-party products, and as a result have experienced delays in the shipment of our new products. Because competition for qualified personnel is intense, we may not be able to retain or recruit personnel, which could impact the development and sales of our products. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified personnel, or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or fail to reach expected levels of productivity, our ability to develop and market our products will be weakened. Our success depends largely on the continued contributions of our key management, finance, engineering, sales and marketing and professional services personnel. In particular, we have recently had significant turnover of our executives as well as in our in our sales, 19 Table of Contents marketing and finance organizations and many key positions are held by people who are new to the Company or to their roles. If these people are unable to quickly become familiar with the issues they face in their roles or are not well suited to their new roles, then this could result in the Company having problems in executing its strategy or in reporting its financial results. Because of the dependency on a small number of large deals, we are uniquely dependent upon the talents and relationships of a few executives and have no guarantee of their retention. Changes in key sales management could affect our ability to maintain existing customer relationships or to close pending transactions. We have been targeted by recruitment agencies seeking to hire our key management, finance, engineering, sales and marketing and professional services personnel. In addition, in July 2005 and again in October of 2006, we reduced the size of our workforce by approximately 10% in each instance, which may have a negative effect on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. To date, our sales have been concentrated in the financial services, telecommunications and retail markets, and if we are unable to continue sales in these markets or successfully penetrate new markets, our revenues may decline. Sales of our products and services in three large markets—financial services, telecommunications and retail markets accounted for approximately 89 % and 87 % of our total revenues for the year ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect that revenues from these three markets will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to successfully increase penetration of our existing markets or achieve sales in additional markets, or if the overall economic climate of our target markets deteriorates, our revenues may decline. Low gross margin in services revenues could adversely impact our overall gross margin and income. Our services revenues have had lower gross margins than our license revenues. Service revenues comprised 58% and 62% of our total revenues for the year ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Gross margin on service revenues was 46% and 42% for the year ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. License revenues comprised 42% and 38% of our total revenues for the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Gross margins on license revenues were 96% and 97% for the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As a result, an increase in the percentage of total revenues represented by services revenues, or an unexpected decrease in license revenues, could have a detrimental impact on our overall gross margins. To increase services revenues, we would expand our services organization, successfully recruit and train a sufficient number of qualified services personnel, enter into new implementation projects and obtain renewals of current maintenance contracts by our customers. This expansion could further reduce gross margins in our services revenues. We may not have the workforce necessary to support our platform of products if demand for our products substantially increased, and, if we need to rebuild our workforce in the future, we may not be able to recruit personnel in a timely manner, which could negatively impact the development and sales of our products. In July 2005 and again in October of 2006, we reduced the size of our workforce by approximately 10% in each instance. In the event that demand for our products increases, we may need to rebuild our workforce or increase outsourced functions to companies based in foreign jurisdictions and we may be unable to hire, train or retain qualified personnel in a timely manner, which may weaken our ability to market our products in a timely manner, negatively impacting our operations. Our success depends largely on ensuring that we have adequate personnel to support our platform of products as well as the continued contributions of our key management, finance, engineering, sales and marketing and professional services personnel. If we fail to introduce new versions and releases of functional and scalable products in a timely manner, customers may license competing products and our revenues may decline. If we are unable to ship or implement enhancements to our products when planned, or fail to achieve timely market acceptance of these enhancements, we may suffer lost sales and could fail to achieve anticipated revenues. We have in the past, and expect in the future, to derive a significant portion of our total revenues from the license of our primary product suite. Our future operating results will depend on the demand for the product suite by future customers, including new and enhanced releases that are subsequently introduced. If our competitors release new products that are superior to our products in performance or price, or if we fail to enhance our products or introduce new features and functionality in a timely manner, demand for our products may decline. We have in the past experienced delays in the planned release dates of new versions of our software products and upgrades. New versions of our products may not be released on schedule or may contain defects when released. We depend on technology licensed to us by third parties, and the loss or inability to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay sales of our products. We license from several software providers technologies that are incorporated into our products. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology from third parties in the future. This software may not continue to be available on 20 Table of Contents commercially reasonable terms, if at all. While currently we are not materially dependent on any single third party for such licenses, the loss of the technology licenses could result in delays in the license of our products until equivalent technology is developed or identified, licensed and integrated into our products. Even if substitute technologies are available, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to license these technologies on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Defects in third party products associated with our products could impair our products’ functionality and injure our reputation. The effective implementation of our products depends upon the successful operation of third-party products in conjunction with our products. Any undetected defects in these third-party products could prevent the implementation or impair the functionality of our products, delay new product introductions or injure our reputation. In the past, while our business has not been materially harmed, product releases have been delayed as a result of errors in third-party software and we have incurred significant expenses fixing and investigating the cause of these errors. Our customers and systems integration partners may have the ability to alter our source code and resulting inappropriate alterations could adversely affect the performance of our products, cause injury to our reputation and increase operating expenses. Customers and systems integration partners may have access to the computer source code for certain elements of our products and may alter the source code. Alteration of our source code may lead to implementation, operation, technical support and upgrade problems for our customers. This could adversely affect the market acceptance of our products, and any necessary investigative work and repairs could cause us to incur significant expenses and delays in implementation. If our products do not operate with the hardware and software platforms used by our customers, our customers may license competing products and our revenues will decline. If our products fail to satisfy advancing technological requirements of our customers and potential customers, the market acceptance of these products could be reduced. We currently serve a customer base with a wide variety of constantly changing hardware, software applications and networking platforms. Customer acceptance of our products depends on many factors such as: • Our ability to integrate our products with multiple platforms and existing or legacy systems; and, • Our ability to anticipate and support new standards, especially Internet and enterprise Java standards. Our failure to successfully integrate with future acquired or merged companies and technologies could prevent us from operating efficiently. Our business strategy includes pursuing opportunities to grow our business, both through internal growth and through merger, acquisition and technology and other asset transactions. To implement this strategy, we may be involved in merger and acquisition activity and additional technology and asset purchase transactions. Merger and acquisition transactions are motivated by many factors, including, among others, our desire to grow our business, acquire skilled personnel, obtain new technologies and expand and enhance our product offerings. Growth through mergers and acquisitions has several identifiable risks, including difficulties associated with successfully integrating distinct businesses into new organizations, the substantial management time devoted to integrating personnel, technology and entire companies, the possibility that we might not be successful in retaining the employees, undisclosed liabilities, the failure to realize anticipated benefits (such as cost savings and synergies) and issues related to integrating acquired technology, merged/acquired companies or content into our products (such as unanticipated expenses). Realization of any of these risks in connection with any technology transaction or asset purchase we have entered into, or may enter into, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we become subject to intellectual property infringement claims, including patent infringement claims, these claims could be costly and time-consuming to defend, divert management’s attention, cause product delays and have an adverse effect on our revenues and net income. We expect that software product developers and providers of software in markets similar to our target markets will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of products overlap. Any claims, with or without merit, could be costly and time-consuming to defend, divert our management’s attention or cause product delays. If any of our products were found to infringe a third party’s proprietary rights, we could be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to be able to sell our products. Royalty and licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. 21 Table of Contents In particular, if we were sued for patent infringement by a patent holding company, one which has acquired large numbers of patents solely for the purpose of bringing suit against alleged infringers rather than practicing the patents, it may be costly to defend such suit. We have received a letter from one such patent holding company alleging that our products may infringe their one or more of their patents. If any of our products were found to infringe such patent, the patent holder could seek an injunction to enjoin our use of the infringing product. If we were not able to remove or replace the infringing portions of software with non-infringing software, and were no longer able to license some or all of our software products, such an injunction would have an extremely detrimental effect on our business. If we were required to settle such claim, it could be extremely costly. A patent infringement claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The application of percentage of completion and completed contract accounting to our business is complex and may result in delays in the reporting of our financial results and revenue not being recognized as we expect. Although we attempt to use standardized license agreements designed to meet current revenue recognition criteria under generally accepted accounting principles, we must often negotiate and revise terms and conditions of these standardized agreements, particularly in multi-product transactions. At the time of entering into a transaction, we assess whether any services included within the arrangement require us to perform significant implementation or customization essential to the functionality of our products. For contracts involving significant implementation or customization essential to the functionality of our products, we recognize the license and professional consulting services revenues using the percentage-of-completion method using labor hours incurred as the measure of progress towards completion. The application of the percentage of completion method of accounting is complex and involves judgments and estimates, which may change significantly based on customer requirements. This complexity combined with changing customer requirements could result in delays in the proper determination of our percentage of completion estimates and revenue not being recognized as we expect. We have also entered into co-development projects with our customers to jointly develop new vertical applications, often over the course of a year or longer. In such cases we may only be able to recognize revenue upon delivery of the new application. The accounting treatment for these co-development projects could result in delays in the recognition of revenue. The failure to successfully complete these projects to the satisfaction of the customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in our revenue recognition model could result in short term declines to revenue. Historically, a high percentage of license revenues have been accounted for on the percentage of completion method of accounting or recognized as revenue upon the delivery of product. If we were to modify future contracts with customers, or to enter into new types of transactions accounted for on a subscription or term basis, revenues might be recognized over a longer period of time. The impact of this change would make revenue recognition more predictable over the long term, but it might also result in a short term reduction of revenue as the new transactions took effect. We may continue to encounter unexpected delays in implementing the requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting and we expect to incur additional expenses and diversion of management’s time as a result of performing future system and process evaluation, testing and remediation required to comply with future management assessment and auditor attestation requirements. In connection with the Company’s compliance with Section 404 under SOX for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, we identified certain material weaknesses. In future periods, we will continue to document our internal controls to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control, over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of SOX, within the time frame required by Section 404. We may encounter unexpected delays in implementing those requirements, therefore, we cannot be certain about the timing of the completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact that these activities will have on our operations. We also expect to incur additional expenses and diversion of management’s time as a result of performing the system and process evaluation, testing and remediation required to comply with management’s assessment and auditor attestation requirements. If we are not able to timely comply with the requirements set forth in Section 404 in future periods, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by the regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our business or financial results. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On August 8, 2006, we received a comment letter from the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC. Additional questions were received in comment letter dated October 27, 2006 and January 25, 2007. The comments from the staff were issued with respect to its review of our Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2005, our Forms 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2006 and Forms 8-K filed on February 9 and May 4, 2006. The staff’s letters included comments relating the application of, and disclosures relating to, the percentage of completion method of accounting; the accounting for post-contract customer support; the accounting for arrangements that include a subscription element; and the presentation of non-GAAP operating results appearing in press releases. On August 17, 2006 and November 13, 2006, we responded to the staff’s comments and included supplemental analyses and information requested by the staff. On January 27, 2007, we received a third comment letter from the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC. In this most recent set of comments, the staff is requesting additional clarifications of our November 13, 2006 responses. As of the date of the filing of this Form 10-K, we are in the process of responding to this latest set of comments. 