Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS The following factors as well as other information contained in this report should be considered in making any investment decision related to our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Sales of our products depend on the availability and extent of government funding for public school reading intervention purchases, which is variable and outside the control of both us and our direct customers. If such funding becomes less available, our public school customers may be unable to purchase our products and services on a scale or at prices that we anticipate, which would materially and adversely impact our revenue and net income. United States public schools are funded primarily through state and local tax revenues, which are devoted primarily to school building costs, teacher salaries and general operating expenses. Public schools also receive funding from the federal government through a variety of federal programs, many of which target children who are poor and/or are struggling academically. Federal funds typically are restricted to specified uses. The funding for a substantial portion of our K-12 sales typically comes from federal sources, in particular IDEA (special education) and Title One funding. In 2009 our sales were significantly and favorably impacted by the substantial increases in IDEA and Title One funding under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). The competition between vendors and programs for ARRA funding is intense, and these increases have been authorized for a limited duration. The ARRA funding is expected to decrease after 2010, although some new programs – Race to the Top and Investing in Innovation is expected to continue. Likewise, the current extraordinary levels of federal spending directed to economic recovery, the federal budget deficit and competing federal priorities could adversely impact the availabi lity of federal education funding. A cutback in federal education funding could have a materially adverse impact on our revenue. State and local school funding continues to be significantly impacted by decreases in tax revenues due to the current economic downturn. States face increasing pressure in 2010, primarily due to the significant adverse events in the job, credit, and housing markets. While education spending remains an important priority for states, it faces competition from demands for, among other things, relief for homeowners, transportation spending and rising healthcare costs. A continued reduction in state tax revenues could have a materially adverse impact on our revenue. Our sales cycle tends to be long and somewhat unpredictable, which may result in delayed or lost sales, materially and adversely impacting our revenue and profitability. Like other companies in the instructional market, our sales to K-12 schools are affected by school purchasing cycles and procedures, which can be quite bureaucratic. The cost of some of our K-12 license packages requires multiple levels of approval in a political environment, which results in a time-consuming sales cycle that can be difficult to predict. When a district decides to finance its license purchase, the time required to obtain necessary approvals can be extended even further. In addition, sales to schools are subject to budgeting constraints, which may require schools to find available discretionary funds, obtain grants or wait until subsequent budget cycles. As a result, our sales cycle generally takes months and, in some cases, can take a year or longer. Therefore, we may devote significant time and energy to a particular customer sale over the course of many months, and then not make the sale when expected or at all. This can result in lost opportunities that can materially and adversely impact our revenue and profit. Sales in our non-school markets may continue to be affected by the current global recession. Our non school sales consist principally of sales to private speech, language and other healthcare providers and sales to our international value-added resellers. In addition, during 2009 we launched new products marketed directly to parents for at-home use by their children. Historically, sales to private providers have been adversely impacted by economic downturns, as many parents postpone or forego these services when their financial resources are reduced. During 2009, sales to both private providers and to our international channel declined substantially compared to the prior year. We believe that this decline is mainly a result of current global economic difficulties. The current weak economic conditions may likewise adversely affect our potential sales to parents of our new BrainSpark and BrainPro products. 19 Table of Contents It is difficult to accurately forecast our future financial results. This may cause us to fail to achieve the financial performance anticipated by investors and financial analysts, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Our revenue and net income or loss are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter and from year to year. In 2009, we had net income of $4.8 million; in 2008, we had a net loss of approximately $3.3 million. In 2007, we had net income of approximately $1.2 million. Our sales strategy emphasizes district-level, multi-site transactions. The receipt or implementation of a single large order, or conversely its loss or delay, can significantly impact the level of sales booked and revenue recognized in a given quarter. This uncertainty is compounded by the fact that our various license and service packages have substantially differing revenue recognition periods. Even when the amount and timing of a transaction can be accurately projected, it may be difficult to predict which license package a customer will purchase. Our expense levels are based on our expectations of future revenue and are primarily fixed in the short term. We may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which could cause our net income to fluctuate unexpectedly. Failure to achieve the financial results expected by investors and financial analysts in a given quarter could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. To grow our K-12 business, we need to increase acceptance of our products among K-12 education purchasers. Failure to do so would materially and adversely impact our revenue, profitability and growth prospects. We believe that to date most educators who have used Fast ForWord products are “early adopters.” Early adopters make up a relatively small proportion of our K-12 market, so in order to grow our revenue and profit we need to increase our reach beyond early adopters to more conservative customers. We believe that our ability to grow acceptance of our products in the conservative K-12 education market will depend largely on the critical factors discussed below. Our Fast ForWord products use an approach that differs from the approaches that schools have traditionally used to address reading problems. In particular, our products, which are designed to develop the brain to process more efficiently, are based on neuroscience research and focus on building cognitive skills. These concepts may be unfamiliar to educators. K-12 educational practices are slow to change, and it can be difficult to convince educators of the value of a substantially different approach. In order to obtain the best student results from using our product, schools must follow a recommended protocol for Fast ForWord use, which requires at least 30 minutes per day out of a limited and already crowded school day. Our recommendation that schools follow a prescribed protocol in using our products may limit the number of schools willing to purchase from us. In addition, if our products are not used in accordance with the protocol, they may not produce the expected student results, which may lead to customer dissatisfaction and decreased revenue. Our products are generally implemented in a computer lab with a lab coach or teacher rather than in the classroom with the students’ regular classroom teachers. To reach a broader group of customers, encourage additional sales from existing customers and improve student achievement results, we need to better engage classroom teachers in the products’ implementation, in an effective and efficient manner. If we are unable to convince our market of the value of our significantly different approach and otherwise overcome the challenges identified above, our revenue and growth prospects could be materially and adversely impacted. 20 Table of Contents We rely on studies of student performance results to demonstrate the effectiveness of our products. If the validity of these studies or the conclusions that we draw from them are challenged, our reputation could be harmed and our business prospects and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We rely heavily on statistical studies of student results on assessments to demonstrate that our products lead to improved student achievement. Reliance on these studies to support our claims about the effectiveness of our products involves risks, including the following: · The results of studies depend on schools’ appropriately implementing the products and adhering to the product protocol. If a school does not do so, the study may not show that our products produce substantial student improvements. · Some studies on which we rely may be challenged because the studies use a limited sample size, lack a randomly selected control group, include assistance or participation from us or our scientists, or have other design characteristics that are not optimal. These challenges may assert that these studies are not sufficiently rigorous or free from bias, and may lead to criticism of the validity of the studies and the conclusions that we draw from them. · Schools studying the effectiveness of our products use the product with different types of students and use different assessments, sometimes making it difficult to aggregate or compare results. Our sales and marketing efforts, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted if the studies upon which we rely to demonstrate the effectiveness of our products, or the conclusions we draw from those studies, are seen to be insufficient. If our operations are disrupted due to weaknesses in our technology infrastructure, our business could be harmed. Providing our services and conducting our general business operations both substantially rely on computer and network systems. We have recently experienced disruptions in both our customer and internal network services due to hardware failures. We are in the midst of a major project to upgrade many of our computer and network systems, which we believe have become outdated. If our customer systems are disrupted, we may be required to issue credits, customers may elect not to renew their contracts or not to purchase additional licenses, we may lose sales to potential customers and we may be subject to liability. If our internal systems are disrupted, we may lose productivity and incur delays in product development, sales operations or other functions. If our products contain errors or if customer access to our web-delivered products and services is disrupted, we could lose new sales and be subject to significant liability claims. Because our software products are complex, they may contain undetected errors or defects, known as bugs. Bugs can be detected at any point in a product’s life cycle, but are more common when a new product is introduced or when new versions are released. In the past, we have encountered unexpected bugs in our products shortly after release. We expect that, despite our testing, errors will be found in new products and product enhancements in the future. Significant errors in our products could lead to: · delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products; · diversion of our resources; · a lower rate of expansion purchases from current customers; · injury to our reputation; and · increased service expenses or payment of damages. Our Progress Tracker data tool, the Web-enabled version of the Reading Assistant product, our new Virtual Academy and other online services, and our new BrainSpark and BrainPro products all rely on the World Wide Web in order to function. Unanticipated problems affecting our network systems could cause interruptions or delays in the delivery of that product. The servers that support our Web-delivered products and services are located in third party facilities. While we believe that the services provided by these facilities are robust, interruptions in customer access could be caused by the occurrence of a natural disaster, power loss, vandalism or other telecommunications problems. We have experienced problems due to power loss in the past, and we will continue to be exposed to the risk of access failure in the futur e. 21 Table of Contents If our products do not work properly, or if there are problems with customer access to our Web-delivered products and services, we may be required to issue credits, customers may elect not to renew their support or access contracts or not to purchase additional licenses, we may lose sales to potential customers and we may be subject to liability claims. We cannot be certain that the limitations of liability set forth in our agreements would be enforceable or would otherwise protect us from liability for damages. A material liability claim against us, regardless of its merit or its outcome, could result in substantial costs, significantly harm our business reputation and divert management’s attention from our operations. Our cash flow is highly variable and may not be sufficient to meet all of our objectives. We believe that cash flow from operations, together with our current cash balances, will be our primary source of funding for our operations during 2010 and the next several years. During 2009, we generated $14.5 million in cash from operations. In 2008, we used $13.6 million of our cash and cash equivalent balances, with $10.1 million used for the acquisition of the Soliloquy business and $3.7 million used in operating activities Historically, we have used cash in our operations during the first half of the year and built cash in the second half. This pattern results largely from our seasonally low sales in the first calendar quarter, which reflects our industry pattern, and the time needed to collect on sales made towards the end of the second quarter. Reflecting this pattern as well as the significant sales increases in the second half, in the first six months of 2009, we used $4.2 million in operating activities and in the second half ended December 31, 2009, we generated $18.7 million of cash from operations. In February 2010 we amended our credit line with Comerica Bank, which now has a limit of $7.5 million and will expire December 31, 2011. In January 2009, we drew down and in August 2009 we repaid $2.5 million under that line. At December 31, 2009, no borrowing was outstanding under our credit line with Comerica and we were in compliance with the covenants of the line. Borrowings under the line are subject to reporting covenants requiring the provision of financial statements to Comerica, and financial covenants requiring us to maintain a minimum adjusted quick ratio of 1.15 and positive net worth. If we do not comply with the covenants, we risk being unable to borrow under the credit line. Funding our liquidity needs out of cash flow from operations will require us to achieve certain levels of booked sales, collections, and expenses. We cannot assure you that we will meet our targets with respect to booked sales, revenues, expenses or operating results. If we are unable to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow from operations, or are unable to obtain waivers or amendments from Comerica in the event we do not comply with our covenants, we would be required either to obtain debt or equity financing from other sources, or to reduce expenses. Reducing our expenses could adversely affect our operations by reducing the resources available for sales, marketing, research or development efforts. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Our new BrainSpark and BrainPro products are marketed directly to parents. We may be unable to successfully penetrate this market. In the US, we presently market primarily to K-12 public schools. Parents who purchase our products for use with their children do so through our much smaller channel, private providers, in which the marketing is done by the individual private provider. For the BrainSpark and Brain Pro offerings launched in 2009, we are marketing and selling directly to parents, a new market for us. We may find our marketing efforts in this market less effective or more expensive than we have planned. The current recession may make our marketing and sales efforts in this market more difficult than we expect. If our marketing efforts are less effective than we expect, we may be unable to achieve our pl anned level of sales and revenue from this market. If our sales and revenue are substantially less than expected, this may cause us to incur impairment charges against the capitalized development costs for these products. We will be required to comply with the auditors’ attestation requirement of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 no later than fiscal 2010. If we or our auditors determine that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective or if we are unable to comply with the auditors’ attestation requirement when we are required to do so, such ineffective controls or non-compliance could have a materially adverse effect on us. Under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404, as implemented by the SEC and PCAOB, we have been required to provide a management assessment on our internal control over financial reporting for fiscal 2007 through 2009, and we have complied with that requirement. 22 Table of Contents We will be required to comply with the auditor’s attestation requirement in fiscal 2010. We cannot assure you that, in the course of completing the work to satisfy the auditors’ attestation requirement, we or our auditors will not detect a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting or that we can satisfactorily comply with the attestation requirement. Claims relating to data collection from our user base may subject us to liabilities and additional expense. Schools and clinicians that use our products frequently use students’ names to register them in our products and enter into our database academic, diagnostic and/or demographic information about the students. In addition, the results of student use of our products are uploaded to our database. We have designed our system to safeguard this personally-identifiable information, but the protection of such information is an area of increasing public concern and significant government regulation, including but not limited to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act. If our privacy protection measures prove to be ineffective, we could be subject to liability claims for unauthorized access to or misuses of personally-identifiable information stored in our database. We may also face addit ional expenses to analyze and comply with increasing regulation in this area. We may not be able to compete effectively in the education market. The market in which we operate is very competitive. We compete vigorously for the funding available to schools, including against other software-based reading intervention products but also against print and service-based offerings from other companies and against traditional methods of teaching language and reading. Many of the companies providing these competitive offerings are much larger than we are, are more established in the school market than we are, offer a broader range of products to schools, and have greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than we do. In addition, although traditional approaches to language and reading are fundamentally different from our approach, the traditional methods are more widely known and accepted and, therefore, represent significant competition for av ailable funds. Our Fast ForWord products are differentiated in the market by their basis in neuroscience research and their focus on improving brain processing efficiency and cognitive skills. Other neuroscientists have worked and are working with other companies to repackage and commercialize their research, resulting in the introduction of other products based on neuroscience research and focusing on improving brain processing. We anticipate that the number of “brain fitness” products will continue to increase in the near future. To the extent that these products are adopted in place of our product, this could materially and adversely impact our revenue. If we lose key personnel or are unable to hire additional qualified personnel as necessary, we may not be able to achieve our business goals, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results and share price. We depend on the performance of our senior management, sales, marketing, development, research, educational, finance and other administrative personnel with extensive experience in our industry and with our Company. The loss of key personnel could harm our ability to execute our business strategy, which could adversely affect our financial results and share price. In addition, we believe that our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to identify, hire, retain and motivate highly skilled employees who are in great demand. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. If we are unable to maintain our access to the intellectual property rights that we license from third parties, our sales and net income will be materially and adversely affected. Our most important products are based on licensed inventions owned by the University of California and Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey. In 2009, we generated approximately 60% of our booked sales from products that use this licensed technology. We also have incorporated technology and content licensed from other third parties as part of our products and services. If we were to lose our rights under these licenses (whether through expiration of our exclusive license period, expiration of the underlying patent’s exclusivity, invalidity or unenforceability of the underlying patents, a breach by us of the terms of the license agreements or otherwise), such a loss of these licensed rights or a requirement that we must re-negotiate these licenses could materially harm our booked sales, our reve nue and our net income. 23 Table of Contents If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we infringe on the rights of others, we could become subject to significant liabilities, need to seek licenses or lose our rights to sell our products. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on whether we are able to maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. It is possible that our issued patents will not offer sufficient protection against competitors with similar technology, that our trademarks will be challenged or infringed by competitors, or that our pending patent applications will not result in the issuance of patents. Issued patents can prove to be invalid or unenforceable as a result of a variety of reasons, including deficiencies in prosecution. As a result of potential deficiencies during the prosecution of certain patents to which we have rights, it is possible that these patents may be subject to a claim of unenforceability or invalidity. If others are able to develop similar products due to the expiration, unenforceability or invalidity of the underlying patents, the resulting competition could materially harm our booked sales, revenue and net income. The Company historically has not registered its copyrights in the United States, which may make it difficult to collect damages from a third party that may be infringing a Company copyright. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is also uncertain for products or product improvements in early-stage development, because it is difficult to predict from early-stage development efforts which product(s) will ultimately be marketed or what form the ultimately marketed product(s) will take. In addition, we could become party to patent or trademark infringement claims, litigation or interference proceedings. These proceedings could result from claims that we are violating the rights of others or may be necessary to enforce our own rights. Any such proceedings would result in substantial expense and significant diversion of management effort, and the outcome of any such proceedings cannot be accurately predicted. An adverse determination in such proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limite d in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture or increase their market share with respect to related technologies. We generally require the execution of a written licensing agreement, which restricts the use and copying of our software products. However, if unauthorized copying or misuse were to occur to a substantial degree, our sales could be adversely affected. Our common stock is thinly traded and its price is volatile. Our common stock presently trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market, and our trading volume is generally low. For example during the fourth quarter of 2009, our average daily trading volume was approximately 120,000 shares. As a result, the ability of holders of our common stock to sell such common stock and thereby monetize their investment may be limited. In addition, the market price of our common stock has been highly volatile since we became publicly traded and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. The ownership of our common stock is concentrated. At December 31, 2009, Trigran Investments owned approximately 28% of our outstanding stock, and our officers and directors held approximately 11% of the outstanding stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, and may have interests that diverge from those of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also delay, prevent or deter a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 