Item 1A. Risk Factors. IDG’s business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, some of which are set forth below. Our industry is very competitive, both as to the number and strength of the different companies with which we compete and the business terms offered to potential customers, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against all or most of them. The industrial MROP supplies industry is highly competitive and features numerous distribution channels, including: international, national, regional, and local distributors; internet suppliers; large catalog warehouses; and manufacturers’ own sales forces. Our General MROP sales force competes against many small enterprises who sell to a limited geographic area. In addition, however, we compete against several large MROP distributors that have significantly greater resources than we do, particularly in the area of e-commerce solutions for small to mid-sized customers. Our FPS sales force competes primarily against mid-sized to large MROP distributors who have the size and scale of operations to provide customers with a broad product line and service to multiple locations. Accordingly, several of these competitors also have greater resources than we do. Competition with all of these distributors has increased as customers increasingly seek low-cost alternatives to traditional methods of purchasing and sources of supply by, among other things, reducing the number of their MROP suppliers. Some of our competitors presently sell some of the same products we sell at lower prices than we offer. Moreover, in our FPS sales, we compete on the basis of our ability to design and implement FPS that will enable our customers to achieve productivity improvements and reduce costs overall, rather than seeking simply to offer the lowest price for any particular MROP item. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully. Competition in the MROP supplies industry may increase in other ways as well. For example, other distributors are consolidating to achieve economies of scale and increase efficiencies, which may strengthen their competitive position relative to us. In addition, new competitors, of which we are not currently aware, may emerge, further increasing competition. Recently, large multi-national companies such as Wolseley PLC and The Home Depot have acquired a significant footprint in our industry. Storeroom management customers are large in size and generate average annual revenue of approximately $2.4 million per site. If we are not able to provide acceptable customer service or renew these contracts at profitable levels, we may not be able to replace the business lost. In most cases, our FPS solutions generate significant savings for our customers during the first few years of the contract. However, there also comes a point when we have brought the customer to maximum efficiency, and our customers request lower product pricing. In most cases we are not willing to sacrifice our margins of profitability. As a result, customers may not renew contracts and may hire the competition or bring the outsourced function of inventory management back in house. In addition customer satisfaction is more challenging at a storeroom management site. We are constantly challenged to provide better service and if we fail to continue to improve our service levels we may lose the business. We will be challenged by this situation, however, we believe that we are able to compete effectively because of our ability to address the MROP needs of our customers by providing value-added services and solutions that enable them to improve productivity and reduce costs. Most storeroom management sites are contractually obligated, and there is a 90-day cancellation clause that may be exercised by either party. The delivery of our services requires highly skilled and specialized employees who are not easy to locate or replace, and we could be adversely affected by the loss or unavailability of such persons. The timely provision of our high-quality services requires an adequate supply of skilled sales and customer service personnel, including product specialists whose expertise is an essential element of both our customer-oriented FPS program and our General MROP business. Accordingly, our ability to implement solutions for our customers depends to a significant degree on our ability to employ and train the skilled personnel necessary to meet our marketing and servicing requirements. From time to time, we have experienced difficulty in attracting or retaining sufficient numbers of qualified personnel. If this occurs, our operating costs may be adversely affected by turnover in such positions. We cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain an adequately skilled sales and customer service force or that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of such skilled personnel. 12 Table of Contents A change in our pricing model to “list less” from a “cost plus” for General MROP customers may result in lost sales volume. Management believes that our historical pricing model and practice have resulted in pricing our products below the market rate for several years. Management believes that a list less discount pricing model is necessary to improve overall profitability and retain many of the purchasing gains we recover from our suppliers. Revising our pricing model from a cost plus mark-up model enables us to capture the efficiencies of aggregated pricing of products, as well as price more competitively by product category. In early 2007, we will gradually rollout a list less pricing model to replace our cost plus model so that the ultimate established price charged to a customer will be based upon the product we sell, and the volume of sales relative to our business with the customer. As we change this pricing methodology, it may have an adverse effect on our sales volume to some of our customers. We rely heavily on our senior management and the expertise of management personnel, and we could be adversely affected by the loss or unavailability of such persons. Our operations will depend for the foreseeable future on the efforts of our executive officers, regional presidents, and our other senior management. Our business and prospects could be adversely affected if these persons, in significant numbers, do not perform their key roles as expected or leave the company, and we are unable to attract and retain qualified replacements. Currently no senior executives are subject to an employment agreement, including change of control provisions which would prevent them from leaving and competing against the company. If we experience IT system failures, the products and services we provide to our customers could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our business and reputation and result in the loss of customers. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our computer network systems and data centers. We are creating a back up facility with full capabilities at another location. However, until that facility is running, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, and computer viruses. We cannot be certain that our measures to avoid or provide back-up support will be successful. Further, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. Any significant uninsured interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our ability to sell our services and products in the quantity we desire depends heavily upon the operations levels of our customers and the economic factors that affect them. Some of the primary markets for the products and services we sell are subject to cyclical fluctuations that generally affect demand for industrial and consumer durable goods that the users of MROP supplies produce. Consequently, the demand for our services and products has been and will continue to be influenced by most of the same regional, national, or even international economic factors that affect the demand for and production of such goods. When our customers or prospective customers reduce their production levels in response to lower demand for their products, they have less need for MROP supplies and may delay or slow (or even cancel) orders for MROP products or services. In addition, because some of our customers are increasingly moving portions of their operations overseas in order to reduce manufacturing costs, our ability to continue to service those customers at acceptable profitability levels may be impaired. Our dependence upon outside suppliers and manufacturers of MROP products makes us subject to price increases and delays in receiving such products due to market demand, material shortages and other factors. We generally do not maintain supply agreements with third parties for MROP products, but instead purchase the products we sell pursuant to purchase orders in the ordinary course of business. We are and will continue to be subject to price increases charged by our supply sources and to failures or delays by them in delivering the quantities of products we require. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pass any price increase on to our customers, and a price increase in excess of the amount we can pass on to our customers could adversely affect our profit margin. A failure or delay in our supply of products could adversely affect our sales and our ability to meet our delivery schedules to customers. Although we believe that our existing suppliers will continue to meet our requirements, at prices that are acceptable, and that alternative sources of supply would be available, events beyond our control could have an adverse effect on the cost or availability of the products we sell. 13 Table of Contents We rely on a variety of informal or short-term distribution rights granted by our suppliers to offer their product lines to our customers, and we could be adversely affected if those rights were discontinued on short notice. For a substantial portion of our business, we depend on the collection of varied distribution arrangements with suppliers for certain product lines that have been established by each region’s respective geographic market. A significant percentage of these current distribution arrangements are oral, and many of them can be terminated by the supplier immediately or upon short notice. The termination or limitation by any key supplier of its relationship with us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 