Item 1A. Risk Factors In this Item 1A. the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” and “Dril-Quip” used herein refer to Dril-Quip, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless otherwise indicated or as the context so requires. A material or extended decline in expenditures by the oil and gas industry could significantly reduce our revenue and income. Our business depends upon the condition of the oil and gas industry and, in particular, the willingness of oil and gas companies to make capital expenditures on exploration, drilling and production operations offshore. The level of capital expenditures is generally dependent on the prevailing view of future oil and gas prices, which are influenced by numerous factors affecting the supply and demand for oil and gas, including: • worldwide economic activity; • the level of exploration and production activity; • interest rates and the cost of capital; • environmental regulation; • federal, state and foreign policies regarding exploration and development of oil and gas; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain production levels and pricing; • governmental regulations regarding future oil and gas exploration and production in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere, including activities impacted by the 2010 drilling moratorium in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and related permitting delays; • the cost of exploring and producing oil and gas; • the cost of developing alternative energy sources; • the availability, expiration date and price of offshore leases in the United States and overseas; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves in offshore areas; • the success of drilling for oil and gas in unconventional resource plays such as shale formations; • technological advances; and • weather conditions. Oil and gas prices and the level of offshore drilling and production activity have been characterized by significant volatility in recent years. Worldwide military, political and economic events have contributed to oil and natural gas price volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Oil prices in 2011 ranged from $75 per barrel to $113 per barrel. In 2010, oil prices were above $70 per barrel for nearly the entire year and ended the year at $91 per barrel. In 2009, oil prices ranged between $34 per barrel to $81 per barrel. We expect continued volatility in both crude oil and natural gas prices as well as in the level of drilling and production related activities. Even during periods of high prices for oil and natural gas, companies exploring for oil and gas may cancel or curtail programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons. In addition, future significant or prolonged declines in hydrocarbon prices may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain matters relating to the Deepwater Horizon explosion, subsequent oil spill, moratorium and related regulations on deepwater drilling offshore in the U. S. Gulf of Mexico may continue to adversely affect our business in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and potentially in other worldwide locations. On April 22, 2010, a deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico drilling rig known as the Deepwater Horizon that was operated by BP Exploration & Production, Inc. (“BP”) sank after an explosion and fire that began on April 20, 15 2010. We are a party to an ongoing contract with an affiliate of BP to supply wellhead systems in connection with BP’s U.S. Gulf of Mexico operations, and our wellhead and certain of our other equipment were in use on the Deepwater Horizon at the time of the incident. A moratorium by the U.S. government was placed on offshore deepwater drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico that was lifted on October 12, 2010. Since the Deepwater Horizon incident, BOEMRE has issued various new regulations intended to improve offshore safety systems and environmental protection. Although the drilling moratorium has been lifted, these new regulations have increased the complexity of the drilling permit process and are likely to continue to result in delays for the receipt of drilling permits by the Company’s customers relative to past experience, resulting in delays in the resumption of drilling in deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico that could persist through 2012. We are currently unable to quantify the full extent of the impact that the Deepwater Horizon incident and subsequent permitting delays, will have on our future revenues and earnings. Revenues associated with the U.S. Gulf of Mexico totaled approximately 31% of our worldwide revenues during 2011 compared to 39% in 2010. Although we believe that the U.S. government drilling moratorium and permitting delays will have little or no impact on revenues related to sales of our offshore rig equipment, the permitting delays could have a significant adverse impact on revenues related to subsea equipment, and, to a lesser extent, surface equipment revenues in 2012. Our service revenues decreased in each quarter of 2010 as a percentage of worldwide revenues. In the first two quarters of 2011 there was an increase in service revenues. Service revenues for the remainder of the 2011 were basically flat as a percentage of worldwide revenues. The delays in the permitting process could continue to result in delayed product and service orders in 2012, which could have an adverse impact on our financial results in 2012 and future years. We do not yet know the extent to which this incident may cause the United States or other countries to restrict or further regulate offshore drilling. The newly created BSEE agency may issue additional safety and environmental regulations for drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, which may result in substantial increases in cost or further delays in drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. BSEE officials have stated that they are reviewing the possibility of expanding BSEE’s oversight of offshore drilling beyond the oil and gas companies that hold the drilling permits to cover rig suppliers, oilfield service firms, potentially including us, and other contractors now outside the scope of BSEE regulations. As a result, there can be no assurance that our existing products will meet any additional requirements imposed by the BSEE. In addition, any increases in the costs to our customers could cause some projects to become non-economical, and as a result, reduce demand for our products and services. Multiple investigations into the Deepwater Horizon incident have been conducted, and in some cases, continue to be conducted, by governmental agencies, including the Department of Justice, the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling (which released its final investigative report in January 2011), and the BOEMRE/U.S. Coast Guard Joint Investigation Team (which released its final investigative report in September 2011). We were designated as a party-in-interest, received requests for certain information and provided testimony in connection with the joint investigation conducted by BOEMRE and the U.S. Coast Guard. We have also received requests to preserve information from the Joint Investigation Team, the Department of Justice and the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board. While the focus of some of these investigations is to develop options for guarding against future oil spills associated with offshore drilling, the Department of Justice has announced that it is reviewing, among other criminal statutes, The Clean Water Act (“CWA”), which carries civil penalties and fines as well as criminal penalties, The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA”), which can be used to hold parties liable for cleanup costs and reimbursement for government efforts, and The Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 and Endangered Species Act of 1973, which provide penalties for injury and death to wildlife and bird species. We were named, along with other unaffiliated entities, in nine class action lawsuits and ten other lawsuits arising out of the Deepwater Horizon incident. These actions were filed against the Company between April 28, 2010 and March 11, 2011 and were consolidated, along with hundreds of other lawsuits not directly naming the Company, in the multi-district proceeding In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig “Deepwater Horizon” in the Gulf of 16 Mexico, on April 20, 2010 (“MDL Proceeding”). The lawsuits generally allege, among other things, violation of state and federal environmental and other laws and regulations, negligence, gross negligence, strict liability and/or property damages and generally seek awards of unspecified economic, compensatory and punitive damages and/or declaratory relief. The judge presiding over the MDL Proceeding is also presiding over a separate but related proceeding filed by affiliates of Transocean Ltd. (“Transocean”) under the Limitation of Liability Act (“Limitation Action”) in the federal court for the Eastern District of Louisiana. On February 18, 2011, Transocean filed a Third-Party Complaint, tendering the Company to the plaintiffs/claimants in the Limitation Action, which had the procedural effect of making the Company a defendant in over 100,000 claims filed by plaintiffs in the Limitation Action. In April and May 2011, Transocean, Cameron International Corporation, Halliburton Energy Services, Inc., M-I, LLC, Weatherford U.S. LP and Weatherford International, Inc. each filed cross claims against the Company in the MDL Proceeding and/or in the Limitation Action, generally seeking subrogation and/or contribution from the Company and alleging negligence, comparative fault and strict liability for manufacturing, design and marketing defects by the Company. In May 2011, Transocean filed a Third-Party Complaint against the Company, impleading it into an action brought by the United States in connection with the Deepwater Horizon incident against Transocean and other unaffiliated parties as “Responsible Parties” under OPA and for violations of CWA, which alleged comparative fault and strict liability for manufacturing, design and marketing defects by the Company and generally seeking subrogation and/or contribution from the Company. In June 2011, BP and its affiliate BP America Production Company filed counterclaims against the Company in the MDL Proceeding and in the Limitation Action generally seeking subrogation and/or contribution from the Company. On January 20, 2012 the judge presiding over the MDL Proceeding, the Limitation Action and the U.S. government’s action against “Responsible Parties” under OPA, issued an order that granted the Company’s Motion for Summary Judgment and dismissed all claims asserted against the Company in those proceedings with prejudice. We intend to continue to vigorously defend any litigation, fine and/or penalty relating to the Deepwater Horizon incident. To date, no liability has been accrued in conjunction with these matters. Additional lawsuits may be filed against us and additional investigations may be launched in the future. An adverse outcome with respect to any of these lawsuits or investigations, or any lawsuits or investigations that may arise in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. At the time of the Deepwater Horizon incident, we had a general liability insurance program with an aggregate coverage limit of $100 million for claims with respect to property damage, injury or death and pollution. The insurance policies may not cover all potential claims and expenses relating to the Deepwater Horizon incident. In addition, our policies may not cover fines, penalties or costs and expenses related to government-mandated clean up of pollution. We have received a “reservation of rights” letter from our insurers. The incident may also lead to further tightening of the availability of insurance coverage. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance at a reasonable price, thereby making certain projects unfeasible from an economic standpoint. If liability limits are increased or the insurance market becomes more restricted, the risks and costs of conducting offshore exploration and development activities may increase, which could materially impact our results of operations. We may not be able to satisfy technical requirements, testing requirements or other specifications under contracts and contract tenders. Our products are used in deepwater, harsh environments and severe service applications. Our contracts with customers and customer requests for bids typically set forth detailed specifications or technical requirements for our products and services, which may also include extensive testing requirements. We anticipate that such testing 17 requirements will become more common in our contracts. In addition, recent scrutiny of the offshore drilling industry triggered by the Deepwater Horizon incident may result in more stringent technical specifications for our products and more comprehensive testing requirements for our products to ensure compliance with such specifications. We cannot assure you that our products will be able to satisfy the specifications or that we will be able to perform the full-scale testing necessary to prove that the product specifications are satisfied in future contract bids or under existing contracts, or that the costs of modifications to our products to satisfy the specifications and testing will not adversely affect our results of operations. If our products are unable to satisfy such requirements, or we are unable to perform any required full-scale testing, our customers may cancel their contracts and/or seek new suppliers, and our business, results of operations or financial position may be adversely affected. We rely on technology provided by third parties and our business may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to renew our licensing arrangements with them. We have existing contracts and may enter into new contracts with customers that require us to use technology or to purchase components from third parties, including some of our competitors. In the ordinary course of our business, we have entered into licensing agreements with some of these third parties for the use of such technology, including a license from a competitor of a technology important to our subsea wellheads. We may not be able to renew our existing licenses or to purchase these components on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to use a technology or purchase a component, we may not be able to meet existing contractual commitments without increased costs or modifications or at all. In addition, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology or component or to redesign our products, either of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We may be unable to successfully compete with other manufacturers of drilling and production equipment. Several of our primary competitors are diversified multinational companies with substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than ours and which have been engaged in the manufacturing business for a much longer time than us. If these competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to developing and marketing competitive products and services, we may not be able to compete effectively. Similarly, consolidation among our competitors could enhance their product and service offerings and financial resources, further intensifying competition. The loss of a significant customer could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our principal customers are major integrated oil and gas companies, large independent oil and gas companies and foreign national oil and gas companies. Offshore drilling contractors and engineering and construction companies also represent a portion of our customer base. In 2011, our top 15 customers represented approximately 62% of total revenues, with one customer, Petrobras, accounting for approximately 15% of our total revenues. In 2010, our top 15 customers represented approximately 63% of total revenues, and one customer, Keppel Fels, accounted for 13% of our total revenues. In 2009, our top 15 customers represented approximately 60% of total revenues, with one customer, ConocoPhillips, accounting for approximately 10% of our total revenues. While we are not dependent on any one customer or group of customers, the loss of one or more of our significant customers could, at least on a short-term basis, have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our customers’ industries are undergoing continuing consolidation that may impact our results of operations. The oil and gas industry is rapidly consolidating and, as a result, some of our largest customers have consolidated and are using their size and purchasing power to seek economies of scale and pricing concessions. 18 This consolidation may result in reduced capital spending by some of our customers or the acquisition of one or more of our primary customers, which may lead to decreased demand for our products and services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our level of sales to a customer that has consolidated or replace that revenue with increased business activity with other customers. As a result, the acquisition of one or more of our primary customers may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations or our financial position. We are unable to predict what effect consolidations in the industry may have on price, capital spending by our customers, our selling strategies, our competitive position, our ability to retain customers or our ability to negotiate favorable agreements with our customers. Increases in the cost of raw materials and energy used in our manufacturing processes could negatively impact our profitability. Any increases in commodity prices for items such as nickel, molybdenum and heavy metal scrap that are used to make the steel alloys required for our products would result in an increase in our raw material costs. Similarly, any increase in energy costs would increase our product costs. If we are not successful in raising our prices on products to compensate for any increased raw material or energy costs, our margins will be negatively impacted. We depend on third-party suppliers for timely deliveries of raw materials, and our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies in a timely manner. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials from third parties. The ability of these third parties to deliver raw materials may be affected by events beyond our control. Any interruption in the supply of raw materials needed to manufacture our products could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reputation with our customers. The unsettled conditions in the global financial system may have impacts on our business and financial position that we currently cannot predict. The credit crisis and unsettled conditions in the global financial system, particularly with respect to the European Union, may have an impact on our business and our financial position. Uncertainty and turmoil in the credit markets may negatively impact the ability of our customers to finance purchases of our products and services and could result in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders included in our backlog or adversely affect the collectability of our receivables. If the availability of credit to our customers is reduced, they may reduce their drilling and production expenditures, thereby decreasing demand for our products and services, which could have a negative impact on our financial position. Additionally, unsettled conditions could have an impact on our suppliers, causing them to be unable to meet their obligations to us. Although we do not currently anticipate a need to access the credit markets in the short term, a prolonged constriction on future lending by banks or investors could result in higher interest rates on future debt obligations or could restrict our ability to obtain sufficient financing to meet our long-term operational and capital needs. Our international operations expose us to instability and changes in economic and political conditions and other risks inherent to international business, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. We have substantial international operations, with approximately 69%, 61% and 66% of our revenues derived from foreign sales in each of 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We operate our business and market our products and services in all of the significant oil and gas producing areas in the world and are, therefore, subject to the risks customarily attendant to international operations and investments in foreign countries. Risks associated with our international operations include: • volatility in general economic, social and political conditions; • terrorist threats or acts, war and civil disturbances; 19 • expropriation or nationalization of assets; • the sovereign debt crisis of the European Union countries; • renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; • foreign taxation, including changes in law or interpretation of existing law; • assaults on property or personnel; • restrictive action by local governments; • foreign and domestic monetary policies; • limitations on repatriation of earnings; • travel limitations or operational problems caused by public health threats; and • changes in currency exchange rates. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to manufacture products abroad or the demand for our products and services in some locations. To date, we have not experienced any significant problems in foreign countries arising from local government actions or political instability, but there is no assurance that such problems will not arise in the future. Interruption of our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our overall operations. We are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions and there are inherent uncertainties in the final determination of our tax liabilities. As a result of our international operations, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. Therefore, the final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of the statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide. Foreign income tax returns of foreign subsidiaries and related entities are routinely examined by foreign tax authorities. These tax examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes or penalties or both. Refer to “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” regarding tax assessments in Brazil. Our excess cash is invested in various financial instruments which may subject us to potential losses. We invest excess cash in various financial instruments including interest bearing accounts, money market mutual funds and funds which invest in U.S. Treasury obligations and repurchase agreements backed by U.S. Treasury obligations. However, changes in the financial markets, including interest rates, as well as the performance of the issuers, can affect the market value of our short-term investments. There are currently discussions on allowing money market fund net asset values to float and requiring withdrawals to be staggered. Such a policy could have a negative impact on our cash balances and activities. We may suffer losses as a result of foreign currency fluctuations and limitations on the ability to repatriate income or capital to the U.S. We conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than the United States dollar, and our operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We cannot assure you that we will be able to protect the Company against such fluctuations in the future. Historically, we have not conducted business in countries that limit repatriation of earnings. However, as we expand our international operations, we may begin operating in countries that have such limitations. Further, we cannot assure you that the countries in which we currently operate will not adopt policies limiting repatriation of earnings in the future. 20 Our business involves numerous operating hazards that may not be covered by insurance. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our products are used in potentially hazardous drilling, completion and production applications that can cause personal injury, product liability and environmental claims. In addition, certain areas where our products are used, including in and near the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, are close to high population areas and subject to hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. A catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and/or services are used may expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, product liability or commercial claims. To the extent available, we maintain insurance coverage that we believe is customary in the industry. Effective October 1, 2010, we increased our general liability insurance program to an aggregate coverage limit of $200 million for claims with respect to property damage, injury or death and pollution. However, our insurance policies may not cover fines, penalties or costs and expenses related to government-mandated clean up of pollution. In addition, our insurance does not provide coverage for all liabilities, and we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover claims that may arise or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We attempt to further limit our liability through contractual indemnification provisions with our customers. We generally seek to enter into contracts for the provision of our products and services that provide for (1) the responsibility of each party to the contract for personal injuries to, or the death of, its employees and damages to its property, (2) cross-indemnification with other contractors providing products and/or services to the other party to the contract with respect to personal injury, death and property damage and (3) the responsibility of each party to the contract for claims brought by third parties for personal injury, death, property loss or damage to the extent of each party’s negligence or fault. We may not be able to successfully obtain favorable contractual provisions, and a failure to do so may increase our risks and costs, which could materially impact our results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that any party that is contractually obligated to indemnify us will be financially able to do so. We may lose money on fixed-price contracts. A portion of our business consists of the designing, manufacturing and selling of our equipment for major projects pursuant to competitive bids, and is performed on a fixed-price basis. Under these contracts, we are typically responsible for all cost overruns, other than the amount of any cost overruns resulting from requested changes in order specifications. Our actual costs and any gross profit realized on these fixed-price contracts may vary from the estimated amounts on which these contracts were originally based. This may occur for various reasons, including: • errors in estimates or bidding; • changes in availability and cost of labor and materials; and • variations in productivity from our original estimates. These variations and the risks inherent in our projects may result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Our business could be adversely affected if we do not develop new products and secure and retain patents related to our products. Technology is an important component of our business and growth strategy, and our success as a company depends to a significant extent on the development and implementation of new product designs and 21 improvements. Whether we can continue to develop systems and services and related technologies to meet evolving industry requirements and, if so, at prices acceptable to our customers will be significant factors in determining our ability to compete in the industry in which we operate. Many of our competitors are large multinational companies that may have significantly greater financial resources than we have, and they may be able to devote greater resources to research and development of new systems, services and technologies than we are able to do. Our ability to compete effectively will also depend on our ability to continue to obtain patents on our proprietary technology and products. Although we do not consider any single patent to be material to our business as a whole, the inability to protect our future innovations through patents could have a material adverse effect. We may be required to recognize a charge against current earnings because of percentage-of-completion accounting. Revenues and profits on long-term project contracts are recognized on a percentage-of-completion basis. We calculate the percent complete and apply the percentage to determine revenues earned and the appropriate portion of total estimated costs. Accordingly, purchase order price and cost estimates are reviewed periodically as the work progresses, and adjustments proportionate to the percentage complete are reflected in the period when such estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits, we would have to recognize a charge against current earnings, which could be significant depending on the size of the project or the adjustment. Loss of our key management or other personnel could adversely impact our business. In October 2011, J. Mike Walker, the last remaining Co-founder of the Company, retired and stepped down from his positions as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Blake DeBerry was promoted to President and Chief Executive Officer and James Gariepy was promoted to Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Together Mr. DeBerry and Mr. Gariepy have over 30 years with the Company and approximately 60 years of relevant industry experience. We depend on the services of Mr. DeBerry and Mr. Gariepy and the loss of either could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. In addition, competition for skilled machinists, fabricators and technical personnel among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research activities successfully and develop and produce marketable products and services. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates paid by us or both. If either of these events were to occur, in the near-term, the profits realized by us from work in progress would be reduced and, in the long-term, our production capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. Our operations and our customers’ operations are subject to a variety of governmental laws and regulations that may increase our costs, limit the demand for our products and services or restrict our operations. Our business and our customers’ businesses may be significantly affected by: • federal, state and local and foreign laws and other regulations relating to the oilfield operations, worker safety and the protection of the environment; • changes in these laws and regulations; and • the level of enforcement of these laws and regulations. 22 In addition, we depend on the demand for our products and services from the oil and gas industry. This demand is affected by changing taxes, price controls and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas industry in general, including those specifically directed to offshore operations. For example, the adoption of laws and regulations curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and gas for economic or other policy reasons could adversely affect our operations by limiting demand for our products. We cannot determine the extent to which our future operations and earnings may be affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in existing regulations and enforcement thereof. Because of our foreign operations and sales, we are also subject to changes in foreign laws and regulations that may encourage or require hiring of local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. If we fail to comply with any applicable law or regulation, our business, results of operations or financial position may be adversely affected. Our businesses and our customers’ businesses are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may increase our costs, limit the demand for our products and services or restrict our operations. Our operations and the operations of our customers are also subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment. These environmental laws and regulations affect the products and services we design, market and sell, as well as the facilities where we manufacture our products. For example, our operations are subject to numerous and complex laws and regulations that, among other things, may regulate the management and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes; require acquisition of environmental permits related to our operations; restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various materials that can be released into the environment; limit or prohibit operation activities in certain ecologically sensitive and other protected areas; regulate specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; require compliance with operational and equipment standards; impose testing, reporting and record-keeping requirements; and require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations. We are required to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with such environmental and health and safety laws and regulations and anticipate that we will continue to be required to do so in the future. In addition, environmental laws and regulations could limit our customers’ exploration and production activities. These laws and regulations change frequently, which makes it impossible for us to predict their cost or impact on our future operations. For example, legislation to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases has been introduced in the U.S. Congress, and there has been a wide-ranging policy debate, both nationally and internationally, regarding the impact of these gases and possible means for their regulation. In addition, efforts have been made and continue to be made in the international community toward the adoption of international treaties or protocols that would address global climate change issues, such as the annual United Nations Climate Change Conferences. Also, the EPA has undertaken new efforts to collect information regarding greenhouse gas emissions and their effects. Following a finding by the EPA that certain greenhouse gases represent a danger to human health, the EPA proposed to expand its regulations relating to those emissions and has adopted rules imposing permitting and reporting obligations. To date, there has been no significant progress in cap and trade proposals. The results of the permitting and reporting requirements could lead to further regulation of these greenhouse gases by the EPA. It is too early to determine whether, or in what form, further regulatory action regarding greenhouse gas emissions will be adopted or what specific impacts a new regulatory action might have on us or our customers. Generally, the anticipated regulatory actions do not appear to affect us in any material respect that is different, or to any materially greater or lesser extent, than other companies that are our competitors. However, our business and prospects could be adversely affected to the extent laws are enacted or modified or other governmental action is taken that prohibits or restricts our customers’ exploration and production activities or imposes environmental protection requirements that result in increased costs to us or our customers. Environmental laws may provide for “strict liability” for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety, rendering a party liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such party. Sanctions for noncompliance may include revocation of permits, corrective action orders, 23 administrative or civil penalties, and criminal prosecution. Some environmental laws and regulations provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. In addition, we may be subject to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances, as well as damage to natural resources. These laws and regulations also may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, or for our acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations at the time such acts were performed. Any of these laws and regulations could result in claims, fines or expenditures that could be material to results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The trading price of our common stock and the price at which we may sell common stock in the future are subject to large fluctuations in response to any of the following: • limited trading volume in our common stock; • quarterly variations in operating results; • general financial market conditions; • the prices of natural gas and oil; • announcements by us and our competitors; • our liquidity; • changes in government regulations; • our ability to raise additional funds; • our involvement in litigation; and • other events. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the near future. We have not paid any dividends in the past and do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our Board of Directors reviews this policy on a regular basis in light of our earnings, financial position and market opportunities. We currently intend to retain any earnings for the future operation and development of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 