ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a limited history of financial reporting. We have provided only limited historical financial information upon which you may base your evaluation of our performance. We were formed in April 1993, filed for bankruptcy protection in May 2002 and emerged from bankruptcy in September 2003. As noted below, as a result of a lack of available records, we have not provided financial information for periods prior to our emergence from bankruptcy in September 2003. Further, our financial results since September 2003 have been affected by a number of non-recurring revenue and expense events, which makes it more difficult to forecast our future financial performance. Accordingly, you must consider our prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies with limited financial history of financial reporting. We are not in compliance with our reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We have not made any timely periodic filings with the SEC required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), for any period since prior to our filing for bankruptcy in May 2002. The filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or future periodic filings will not cure these past violations. Because of our failure to make timely periodic filings with the SEC, we could be subject to civil penalties and other administrative proceedings by the SEC. We do not anticipate being able to list our common stock on any national exchange until, at a minimum, we have become current with our periodic SEC filings. However, even if we become current with our SEC filings, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to meet other applicable listing standards or that if listed, a public trading market will develop in our securities. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is not compliant with our reporting obligations. The Annual Report on Form 10-K requires five years of selected financial data, which for 2007 would include selected financial information for the full year of 2003. Because of a lack of historical records, we have not provided selected financial information for the period from January 1 to September 7, 2003. Due to our failure to provide the selected financial information for these periods, this Annual Report on Form 10-K does not comply with the requirements of the SEC rules. 10 Our prior SEC Investigation may negatively affect us. As previously discussed in “Corporate History,” the SEC initiated a formal investigation of MFN in June 2002. On December 15, 2006, we received a “Wells” notice from the SEC staff in connection with such investigation indicating that the SEC staff was considering recommending that the SEC bring a civil injunctive action against us alleging that we violated various provisions of the federal securities laws. In connection with the contemplated action, the staff could have sought a permanent injunction, disgorgement, and civil penalties. In response to the Wells notice, we made a written submission to the SEC staff setting forth reasons why a civil injunctive action should not be authorized by the SEC. On March 19, 2007, we received a notice from the SEC staff stating that the investigation of MFN had been terminated and that no enforcement action against us had been recommended to the SEC. Such notice was provided to us under the guidelines of the final paragraph of Securities Act Release No. 5310 which states, among other things, that “[such notice] must in no way be construed as indicating that the party has been exonerated or that no action may ultimately result from the staff’s investigation of that particular matter. All that such a communication means is that the staff has completed its investigation and that at that time no enforcement action has been recommended to the SEC.” While there have been no further actions to date, we cannot assure you that there will not be any further action on this or other matters by the SEC. Our revenue includes certain fees that are not predictable. Historically, a portion of our revenue has included certain termination payments received by the Company to settle contractual commitments, which are referred to as termination revenue. Additionally, we have received settlements of our claims in various customer bankruptcy cases, which is also included in termination revenue. Termination revenue amounted to $8.5 million, $8.3 million and $12.1 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. This revenue is not predictable and may not be sustainable. In prior years, we incurred significant net losses and we cannot assure you that we will generate net income or that we will sustain positive operating cash flow in the future. We have incurred net losses since our inception other than in 2006 and 2007. In 2006, we generated net income, principally from the sale of our remaining data centers and in 2007, we generated operating income and net income. The net income reported for 2007 includes the non-cash gain of $10.3 million on the reversal of foreign currency translation adjustments from the liquidation of certain subsidiaries. In order for us to continue to generate positive operating cash flow and net income, we will need to continue to obtain new customers, increase our revenue from our existing customers and manage our costs effectively. In the event we are unable to do so, or if we lose customers, we may not be able to continue to generate operating cash flow or net income in the future. We have significant exposure to the financial services industry. We have a large number of customers in the financial services industry. Financial services companies, including some of our customers, have recently reported significant losses caused by the write down and re-evaluation of some of their investments and portfolio positions, which has created significant liquidity problems within the financial services industry. These problems may affect our customers’ ability to pay for our services and to place orders for new services. In addition, our operating results may also be adversely affected if our customers file for bankruptcy or are acquired by institutions or entities that are not interested in purchasing services from us. We have incurred secured indebtedness On February 29, 2008, we closed a $60 million senior secured credit facility with two unaffiliated third party lenders, which is comprised of a revolving working capital line and two term loans (collectively, the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our assets. On September 26, 2008, we executed a joinder agreement to the Credit Facility that adds an additional lender and increases the amount of the Credit Facility to $90 million effective October 1, 2008, subject to the terms of the joinder agreement, including the payment of a $0.45 million fee at closing and a $0.1 million advisory fee. The availability under the Revolver increased to $27 million, the Term Loan increased to $36 million and the available Delayed Draw Term Loan increased to $27 million. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and Note 16, “Subsequent Events - Bank Financing,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Amounts borrowed under this facility bear interest at short-term LIBOR or at the administrative agent’s base rate at our discretion, plus the applicable margins, as defined. Effective August 4, 2008, we entered into a three year swap arrangement, fixing our interest on the $24 million outstanding under the Credit Facility at 3.65%, plus the applicable margin of 3.25%. This Credit Facility imposes restrictions on our operations, including the requirement that we maintain a cash balance of $20 million during the term of this facility. Further, if we are unable to meet any of the reporting or financial covenants under this facility, the lenders may demand that we repay the full amount borrowed under this facility or may limit our access to any available amounts. If our operations do not produce sufficient cash flow to fund our operating expenses and capital requirements, we may be required to raise additional capital through a debt or equity financing. Until we can generate positive free cash flow, we will continue to rely on our existing cash, cash from operating activities and funds available under our Credit Facility to meet our cash needs. Our future capital requirements may increase if we acquire or invest in additional businesses, assets, services or technologies, which may require us to issue additional equity or debt. We may also face unforeseen capital requirements for new technology that we require to remain competitive or to comply with new regulatory requirements, for unforeseen maintenance of our network and facilities and for other unanticipated expenses associated with running our business. We cannot assure you that we will have access to necessary capital, nor can we assure you that any such financing will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. If we issue equity securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may be diluted. Additionally, our Credit Facility imposes limitations on the amount of additional indebtedness we may incur. The concerns of our customers or prospective customers regarding our long-term financial status may discourage some of them from purchasing services from us in the future. Customers purchasing high bandwidth communications services and leasing dark fiber often require a high degree of reliability and long-term stability from their vendors because significant portions of their business may rely upon these services. The impact of our bankruptcy reorganization, our failure to comply with our SEC reporting obligations for several years and the prior SEC investigation, cannot be accurately quantified and may impact our business. These factors could cause customers and prospective customers to question our financial soundness and may also affect the contractual terms that are available to us. To the extent that our customers believe that we may not remain financially viable in the long run, they may choose not to purchase services from us. These perceptions, if widespread, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to develop and maintain systems and controls to operate our business effectively. We have experienced severe difficulties developing and maintaining financial and other systems necessary to operate our business properly and for a period of over six years we could not file our periodic reports with the SEC. 11 Our history of rapid initial growth, expansion through acquisitions with attendant integration issues, significant reorganization and restructuring activities and associated significant staffing reductions, budgetary constraints and attendant limitations on investment in internal systems have increased the risk of internal control deficiencies. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management is required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on a periodic basis. Pursuant to our assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, we have identified the material weaknesses described in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” These weaknesses mean that there is more than a remote likelihood that we will not prevent or detect a material misstatement in our financial statements. Although we are developing and have already begun implementing plans to remediate these weaknesses and have undertaken additional procedures to produce our financial statements, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in this regard. Further, as a result of these material weaknesses, our management has concluded that we do not have effective internal control over financial reporting and that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. We remain delinquent in our financial reporting to the SEC. In the event that we are unable to develop and maintain appropriate systems and controls, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe, however, that the financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K fairly present, in all material respects, our financial condition and results of operations for the periods presented. Our common stock is not listed and it may be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares. Our common stock is currently not listed on any stock exchange. Although we are aware that trades in our common stock occur through the over the counter market, the stock is very thinly traded. As a result, prices may be volatile and it may be difficult to find a purchaser for shares of our common stock. Although we plan to list our common stock with NASDAQ, we cannot assure you that NASDAQ will accept our listing. Further, we cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our shares will lead to the development of an active trading market or how liquid that market may become. We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy because we depend on factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our future largely depends on our ability to implement our business strategy - including shifting from carrier to enterprise customers and from leasing dark fiber to providing lit services - to create new business and revenue opportunities. Our results of operations will be adversely affected if we cannot fully implement our business strategy. Successful implementation depends on numerous factors beyond our control, including economic, competitive, regulatory and other conditions and uncertainties, the ability to obtain licenses, permits, franchises and rights-of-way on reasonable terms and conditions and the ability to hire and retain qualified management personnel. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in our industry. The telecommunications industry is extremely competitive, particularly with respect to price and service. Our failure to compete effectively with our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant increase in industry capacity or reduction in overall demand would adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase prices. Further, we anticipate that prices for certain telecommunications services such as IP bandwidth will continue to decline due to a number of factors including (a) price competition as various network providers attempt to gain market share to cover the fixed costs of their network investments and/or install new networks that might compete with our networks; and (b) technological advances that permit substantial increases in the transmission capacity of many of our competitors’ networks. In the telecommunications industry, we compete against ILECs, which have historically provided local telephone services and currently occupy significant market positions in their local telecommunications markets. In addition to these carriers, several other competitors, such as facilities-based communications service providers including CLECs, cable television companies, electric utilities and large end-users with private networks offer services similar to those offered by us. Many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, sales and marketing and research and development resources than we do. Rapid technological changes could affect the continued use of our services. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology that could materially affect the continued use of our services. Changes in technology could negatively affect the desire of customers to purchase our existing services and may require us to make significant investments in order to meet customer demands for services incorporating new technologies. We also cannot assure you that technological changes in the communications industry and Internet-related industry will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on key personnel. Our business is managed by certain key management and operating personnel. We believe that the success of our business strategy and our ability to operate successfully depend on the continued employment of such employees and the ability to attract qualified employees. We face significant competition from a wide range of companies in our recruiting efforts, and we could experience difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel in the future. Reliance on consultants. We currently rely on certain consultants to provide senior financial and accounting services, including one that is our acting Chief Financial Officer. To the extent that the consultants were to terminate their services agreements before we have hired permanent replacements, our ability to regain compliance with our Exchange Act filing obligations could be further delayed. Further, if any of these consultants do not provide a high quality level of service, it could further delay the production of, or result in a misstatement in, our financial statements. We depend on third party service providers for important parts of our business operations and the failure of those third parties to provide their services could negatively affect our services. We rely on third party service providers for important parts of our business, including most of the fibers on which our long haul network operates and significant portions of the conduits into which our fiber optic cables are installed in our metro networks. If these third party providers fail to perform the services required under the terms of our contracts with them or fail to renew agreements on reasonable terms and conditions, it could materially and adversely affect the performance of our services and we may experience difficulties locating alternative service providers on favorable terms, if at all. Changes in our traffic patterns or industry practice could result in increasing peering costs for our IP network. Peering agreements with other Internet service providers allow us to access the Internet and exchange traffic with these providers. In most cases, we peer with other Internet service providers on a settlement or payment-free basis. If other providers change the terms upon which they allow settlement-free peering or if changes in our Internet traffic patterns, including the ratio of our inbound to outbound traffic, cause us to fall below the criteria that these providers use in allowing settlement-free peering, the costs of operating our Internet backbone will likely increase. Any increases in costs could have an adverse effect on our margins and our ability to compete in the Internet services market. 12 Customer agreements contain service level and delivery obligations that could subject us to liability or the loss of revenue. Our contracts with customers generally contain service guarantees and service delivery date targets, which if not met by us, enable customers to claim credits against their payments to us and, under certain conditions, terminate their agreements. If we are unable to meet our service level guarantees or service delivery dates, it could adversely affect our revenue and cash flow. We are required to maintain, repair, upgrade and replace our network and facilities, and our failure to do so could harm our business. Our business requires that we maintain, upgrade, repair and periodically replace our facilities and networks. This requires and will continue to require, management time and the periodic expenditure of capital. In the event that we fail to maintain, upgrade or replace essential portions of our network or facilities, it could lead to a material degradation in the level of services that we provide to our customers which would adversely affect our business. Our networks can be damaged in a number of ways, including by other parties engaged in construction close to our network facilities. In the event of such damage, we will be required to incur expenses to repair the network in order to maintain services to customers. We could be subject to significant network repair and replacement expenses in the event of a terrorist attack or natural disaster damages our network. Further, the operation of our network requires the coordination and integration of sophisticated and highly specialized hardware and software technologies. Our failure to maintain or properly operate this hardware and software can lead to degradations or interruptions in customer service. Our failure to provide proper customer service can result in claims from our customers for credits or damages and can damage our reputation for service, thereby limiting future sales opportunities. Requests to relocate our network can result in additional expenses. We are periodically required to relocate portions of our network by municipalities, railroads, highway authorities and other entities that engage in construction or other activities in areas close to our network. These relocations can be expensive and time consuming to management and can result in interruptions of service to customers. If we are required to engage in an increased amount of relocation activities, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Governmental regulation may negatively affect our operations. Existing and future government laws and regulations greatly influence how we operate our business. U.S. Federal and state laws directly shape the telecommunications and Internet markets. Consequently, regulatory requirements and changes could adversely affect our operations and also influence the markets for telecommunications and Internet services. We cannot predict the future regulatory framework of our business. Local governments also exercise legal authority that may have an adverse effect on our business because of our need to obtain rights-of-way for our fiber networks. While local governments may not prohibit persons from providing telecommunications services nor treat telecommunication service providers in a discriminatory manner, they can affect the timing and costs associated with our use of public rights-of-way. Government regulation of the Internet may subject us to liability. Laws and regulations that apply to the Internet are becoming more prevalent. The U.S. Congress has considered Internet laws regarding privacy and security relating to the collection and transmission of information over the Internet, entrusting the Federal Trade Commission with strong enforcement power. The U.S. Congress also has adopted laws that regulate the protection of children, copyrights, trademarks, domain names, taxation and the transmission of sexually explicit material over the Internet. The European Union adopted its own privacy regulations and other countries may do so in the future. Other nations have taken actions to restrict the free flow of material deemed objectionable over the Internet. The scope of many of these laws and regulations is subject to conflicting interpretations and significant uncertainty that may take years to resolve. As a result of this uncertainty, we may be exposed to direct liability for our actions and to contributory liability for the actions of our customers. We cannot predict our future tax liabilities. If we become subject to increased levels of taxation, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We provide telecommunication and other services in multiple jurisdictions across the United Stated and in London and are therefore subject to multiple sets of complex and varying tax laws and rules. We cannot predict the amount of future tax liabilities to which we may become subject. Any increase in the amount of taxation incurred as a result of our operations or due to legislative or regulatory changes could result in a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe that our current provisions are reasonable and appropriate, we cannot assure you that these items will be settled for the amounts accrued or that we will not identify additional exposures in the future. Our inability to produce audited financial statements has prevented us from filing our federal and state income taxes in a timely manner. Because we have been unable to produce auditable financial statements on a timely basis, we delayed the filing of federal and state income tax returns for 2003 to 2006. While we have made progress in filing past returns, we are still beyond the filing deadlines, including all applicable extensions, for a number of federal and state returns. In January 2008, we filed our federal and state income tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2003 through December 31, 2005. We are still subject to tax audits in these jurisdictions. While we believe that we will not owe any material amount of income taxes in these jurisdictions due to the significant losses incurred by us, we could be subject to various fines or penalties as a result of our non-timely filings. Our franchises, licenses, permits, rights-of-way, conduit leases and property leases could be canceled or not renewed, which would impair our ability to provide our services. We must maintain rights-of-way, franchises and other permits from railroads, utilities, state highway authorities, local governments, transit authorities and others to operate our networks. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining these right-of-way agreements or obtaining future agreements on acceptable terms. Some of these agreements may be short-term or revocable at will, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to have access to existing rights-of-way after they have expired or terminated. If a material portion of these agreements were terminated or could not be renewed and we were forced to abandon our networks, the termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in some cases landowners have asserted that railroad companies, utilities and others to whom they granted easements to their properties are not entitled as a result of these easements to grant rights-of-way to telecommunications providers. If these disputes are resolved in the landowners' favor, we could be obligated to make substantial lease payments to these landowners for the lease of these rights-of-way or to indemnify the right-of-way holder for its losses. 13 In the past, we have had franchises and rights-of-way expire prior to executing a renewal and in the interim until such renewal was executed, operated without an agreement. We expect that this will continue to occur in the future. These expirations have not caused any material adverse effect on our operations in the past, and we do not expect that they will in the future. However, to the extent that a municipality or other right-of-way holder attempts to terminate our related operations upon the expiration of a franchise or right-of-way agreement, it could materially adversely effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to expand our network to new locations, we often need to obtain additional rights-of-way, franchises and other permits. Our failure to obtain these rights in a prompt and cost effective manner may prevent us from expanding our network which may be necessary to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and could expose us to liabilities and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lose or are unable to renew key real property leases where we have located our POPs, it could adversely affect our services and increase our costs as we would be required to restructure our network and move our POPs. Stockholders affiliated with certain of our directors own a significant percentage of our shares, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of August 31, 2008, two stockholders affiliated with certain of our directors beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 33.19% of our outstanding common stock and our executive officers and directors, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 3.19% of our common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders could have significant influence over the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. In addition, third parties may be discouraged from making a tender offer or bid to acquire the Company because of this concentration of ownership. Our charter documents, our Shareholders’ Rights Plan and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws, our Shareholders’ Rights Plan and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control or change in management that would provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. Our Shareholders’ Rights Plan has significant anti-takeover effects by causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, the authorization of undesignated preferred stock gives our Board of Directors the ability to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to change control of us. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, this premium may not be realized or the market price of our common stock could decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 