ITEM 1A. Risk Factors ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments ITEM 2. Properties ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II ITEM 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure ITEM 9A(T). Controls and Procedures ITEM 9B. Other Information PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance ITEM 11. Executive Compensation ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES Report of Independent Registered Accounting Firm—Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the two years ended December 31, 2008 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the two years ended December 31, 2008 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the two years ended December 31, 2008 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 2 PART I This Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”) contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future results of Ore Pharmaceuticals Inc. (“Ore Pharmaceuticals”) that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which Ore Pharmaceuticals operates and its business and the beliefs and assumptions of the management of Ore Pharmaceuticals. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "targets," "goals," "projects," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed in this Form 10-K under the section entitled “Risk Factors”. Ore Pharmaceuticals undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in management’s expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements are based. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to “Ore Pharmaceuticals,” “Ore Pharmaceuticals Inc.,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Ore Pharmaceuticals Inc. Gene Logic® is a registered trademark of Ocimum Biosolutions, Inc. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Corporate History Ore Pharmaceuticals Inc., headquartered in Gaithersburg, Maryland, is a drug development company focused on developing certain compounds for uses we identified through our drug repositioning efforts. The Company was incorporated in September 1994 as a Delaware corporation and completed its initial public offering in 1997. Formerly named Gene Logic Inc., we changed our name to Ore Pharmaceuticals Inc. in December 2007. In 2008, we focused on developing certain compounds for which we had found new uses through our drug repositioning technology. Our stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “ORXE.” Until 2006, our core business was licensing our proprietary genomics databases and software and providing related services. In 2006, following a strategic reevaluation of our business we embarked on a series of actions. In December 2006, we sold our preclinical testing services subsidiary (sometimes referred to as our Preclinical Division) to Bridge Pharmaceuticals, Inc. In December 2007, we sold the assets of our Genomics Division (the “Genomics Assets”) and the related name “Gene Logic” to Ocimum Biosolutions, Inc. (“Ocimum”). We retained certain technology and the right to use our genomics databases for the purposes of drug development and molecular diagnostics. In September 2008, we sold our molecular diagnostics subsidiary, DioGenix Inc., to Nerveda, Inc. We then focused our efforts on our drug repositioning and development business, which was based on certain drug indication-seeking technologies that we had previously acquired from Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Millennium”) and on the proprietary genomics databases and software we had developed. Through our drug repositioning efforts, we identified potential new therapeutic uses for specific compounds. In 2008, we discontinued further drug repositioning efforts to focus on developing certain of these specific compounds for the new uses. Our Business Ore Pharmaceuticals is a drug development company. We are now developing a small number of drug candidates for new therapeutic uses discovered through our drug repositioning efforts. Before discontinuing our drug repositioning efforts, we applied well-known technologies along with our proprietary know-how in integrative pharmacology to identify potential new uses for certain drug candidates owned by other pharmaceutical companies. These drug candidates were discontinued in such other pharmaceutical companies’ clinical development for reasons other than safety. In 2008, we decided to focus our efforts and resources on developing certain of these drug candidates for which we had discovered potential new therapeutic use and discontinued further drug repositioning work. 3 Our drug candidates have already been tested in preclinical testing and in humans by the original developer and have demonstrated an acceptable safety profile. Therefore, we believe that our drug candidates have a higher likelihood of clinical success than the drug candidates typically under development at small drug development companies. Under the supervision of our Senior Vice-President for Clinical Development, our drug development efforts are generally performed by outsourced contractors and consultants. Although our current financial resources are presently limited, we have made and continue to make significant changes to reduce our rate of cash usage, while maintaining our business objectives. In 2009, we expect to outsource additional administrative functions as we continue efforts to reduce our employee headcount and related rate of cash usage. We also continue to consider other strategic opportunities and paths to enhance shareholder value, including, but not limited to, targeting additional sources of funding and developing new strategic relationships with pharmaceutical companies and other interested third parties. Our Pipeline of Drug Candidates We currently have three drug candidates for which we have development rights for new uses we discovered. All of these drug candidates have undergone extensive preclinical safety testing and have, at the very least, been through early-stage human clinical trials. Using our drug repositioning technology, we found potential alternate uses for these drug candidates that our drug repositioning partners had not previously investigated. Since these drug candidates have already been in early-stage clinical testing, we believe we can quickly move these drug candidates back into clinical development enabling us to efficiently determine their potential for their newly discovered indications. Our right to develop each of our drug candidates resulted from a commercial arrangement with our drug repositioning partners (see “Contractual Arrangements” below). Under these arrangements, we are obligated to pay to such partners certain success-based milestones during clinical development, as well as royalties on future commercial sales. We are seeking to obtain development rights to several other compounds for which we identified new uses from our drug repositioning and development partnership agreements. GL1001 Our lead drug candidate and the primary focus of our scientific efforts is GL1001, which we are developing for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (“IBD”). We recently completed a multiple ascending dose Phase I clinical trial in the United States. We are planning to initiate a Phase Ib/IIa clinical trial for ulcerative colitis in mid 2009 that we expect to have completed in mid to late 2010. Background on GL1001 In 2006, we acquired the rights to develop GL1001 from Millennium. Through extensive analysis, we have identified potential new therapeutic uses for this drug candidate to treat IBD and other gastrointestinal diseases and conditions. GL1001 is a potent inhibitor of the ACE2 enzyme, whose substrates include several bioactive peptides. We have broadly analyzed GL1001’s action, as well as its disease-specific expression in human tissue samples. Our animal models indicate that GL1001 reduces signs of injury and inflammation in experimental colitis, gastritis and gastric ulcer. In a particular model, our drug candidate reduced the severity of histological lesions and was observed to target colon tissue. In another model, GL1001 reduced gastric damage scores induced by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. In 2002, GL1001 was tested by Millennium in a single ascending dose Phase I clinical study in the United Kingdom. Results of that clinical trial indicated that the drug candidate was well-tolerated up to the highest dose tested. In June 2008, we filed an investigational new drug (“IND”) application with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) for GL1001 (see “Drug Development” below). Following clearance of the IND and to confirm GL1001’s safety profile in humans, we commenced clinical testing of GL1001 in September 2008 in a multiple ascending dose Phase I clinical trial. This study was a blinded, placebo-controlled study in 32 healthy volunteers that studied the effects on subjects of multiple ascending doses. The drug candidate was orally administered for 14 days. Results of that trial showed that the drug candidate was well tolerated by humans, with no serious adverse events observed. 4 We are currently preparing protocols and manufacturing sufficient quantities of GL1001 in anticipation of initiating a Phase Ib/IIa clinical trial in mid 2009. This trial will be designed to study additional safety aspects, as well as the effectiveness of GL1001 in the treatment of ulcerative colitis. We expect results of this study to be available in mid to late 2010. Therapeutic Opportunity – Inflammatory Bowel Disease IBD consists of two categories of disease: ulcerative colitis (“UC”) and Crohn’s disease (“CD”). These are conditions that are characterized by intermittent, relapsing intestinal inflammation. UC tends to occur in the terminal portions of the digestive tract, and CD can occur anywhere in the digestive tract. Roughly fifty percent (50%) of patients diagnosed with IBD are believed to have UC, while thirty percent (30%) have CD and the remaining twenty percent (20%) have “indeterminate colitis” with symptoms that fall between CD and UC. The clinical trial for GL1001 that we are planning will focus on treatment of UC; however, we have preliminary evidence that GL1001 may also be useful in the treatment of CD. Worldwide, there are estimated to be four million patients diagnosed with IBD; approximately one million of these patients are in the United States. Recent statistics appear to indicate a rise in the number of new cases. UC is characterized by diffuse inflammation affecting the mucosal and submucosal layers of the colon that typically is most intense in the rectum and can extend into the colon. In about a third of UC patients, the entire large bowel is affected. The inflammation can result in ulcerations that can lead to bloody diarrhea. Current therapies do not appear to cure the disease or prevent future recurrences. Chronic inflammation increases the risk of colon cancer, making surveillance for dysplasia (a form of pre-cancer) necessary even if the actual inflammatory disease remains in remission. CD is more varied in its inflammatory process and clinical manifestations. Typically, inflammation affects all layers (referred to as transmural inflammation), in contrast to the superficial inflammation found in UC. Unlike UC, where the inflammatory process is typically diffuse and continuous in extent, CD inflammation may be patchy and segmental. Symptoms can reflect the inflammation itself or the scarring that can result (fibrostenotic disease). Often the gastrointestinal tract becomes obstructed at the affected site. In many patients, the transmural inflammation can result in pathologic connections between the intestine and a variety of structures, including other parts of the GI tract, the bladder and the skin (most commonly in the perineal or perianal region). While CD can result in a wide range of symptoms, patients can experience a combination of abdominal pain, diarrhea and weight loss. In pediatric patients, lack of growth is a particularly common manifestation. In addition to symptoms related directly to gastrointestinal tract function, a significant minority of patients with either UC or CD also experience manifestations outside the intestinal tract due to associated inflammation affecting the skin, eyes, joints, liver and bile ducts. Although specific episodes or complications of CD can respond to available drugs or surgical intervention, none are curative, and the disease is life-long. It is estimated that between one and two million Americans are affected by IBD. With typical onset in childhood or early adulthood, these disorders cause many decades of pain and suffering and result in significant lost productivity, in addition to the direct costs of medical and surgical care. The burden on the U.S. healthcare system alone is significant; IBD is one of the five most prevalent gastrointestinal diseases in the United States, with an overall health care cost estimated at more than $1.7 billion. This chronic condition commonly requires a lifetime of care after diagnosis. Each year in the United States, IBD accounts for over 700,000 physician visits, 100,000 hospitalizations and disability in 119,000 patients. Over the long term, approximately 75% of patients with CD and 25% of those with UC will require surgery. Limitations of Current IBD Treatments Existing therapies present significant concerns in efficacy, safety and dosing. Although a variety of medications are available that can control inflammation and relieve the resulting symptoms, none provide fully effective treatment, and almost all are associated with the risk of serious side effects. Surgical intervention plays a key role in the management of some patients. However, even with surgery, recurrence of IBD over time is likely. If approved for use, GL1001 has the potential to offer long-term therapeutic relief of the serious symptoms exhibited by patients with IBD with less adverse side effects than current medications. 5 Potential Therapeutic Opportunity – Radiation Enteritis In addition to IBD, we are also investigating use of GL1001 for the treatment of radiation enteritis (also known as radiation enteropathy), a common adverse side-effect of radiation therapy for cancer where the mucosal lining of the intestine is damaged by cytotoxic radiation. An early pilot study testing GL1001 in a radiation enteritis animal model showed positive results; however, it is still too early to determine whether GL1001 could be developed in this indication. Commercialization Opportunities As we proceed with our early-stage clinical testing, we are actively seeking to enter into an arrangement with one or more third parties that would conduct or finance later-stage clinical development and commercialization of GL1001. Tiapamil In 2008, we acquired development and commercialization rights for tiapamil from F. Hoffman La Roche Ltd. (“Roche”). As part of our drug repositioning program, we discovered that tiapamil activates a major regulatory protein in the brain, an activity for which this drug candidate and its class of L-type calcium channel antagonists had not been previously developed. We have thus identified potentially novel therapeutic uses for tiapamil in certain central nervous system diseases, particularly focused on cognition and memory. Development of tiapamil was discontinued by Roche in 1986 for reasons other than safety after completing Phase II trials in hypertension, dysrhythmia and angina pectoris. Based on the results of our early preclinical studies, we intend to develop tiapamil for the most appropriate of several potential indications. Additional preclinical work will likely be necessary to assist in this determination prior to filing an IND with the FDA. We have not yet determined when we will make such a filing. The composition of matter patents (see “Intellectual Property Rights” below) for tiapamil that were filed by Roche have expired; however, we have recently filed provisional method-of-use patent applications for tiapamil based on our preclinical discoveries. Because tiapamil has never been made available commercially, we expect that any issued patents resulting from our patent applications would adequately protect a developer in the marketplace from generic competition for the remainder of such patents’ life. Romazarit In 2008, we also acquired development and commercialization rights from Roche for the clinical-stage drug candidate romazarit. Through our repositioning analysis, we identified potentially novel therapeutic uses for romazarit in metabolic diseases and subsequently observed lowered lipid levels, weight and glucose levels in preclinical testing, which could allow this drug candidate to be developed for the treatment of metabolic indications such as obesity. Development of romazarit was discontinued by Roche in 1990 for reasons other than safety during Phase II trials for rheumatoid arthritis. Based on our preclinical efforts, we intend to develop romazarit for a metabolic indication, although we expect that some limited preclinical work will be necessary to assist in delineating the appropriate development path and prior to filing any IND with the FDA. The composition of matter patents for romazarit have also expired; however, we have filed provisional method-of-use patent applications for romazarit based on the results of our preclinical analysis. Because romazarit has never been made available commercially, we expect that any issued patents resulting from our patent applications would adequately protect a developer in the marketplace from generic competition for the remainder of such patents’ life. 6 Drug Development Today, drug development in the United States generally consists of the following steps: · Discovery. Discovery is the process of identifying new biological targets and the compounds that can affect them. Targets must be identified, prioritized and validated. · Preclinical Testing. Compounds that are being considered as drugs are studied in the laboratory and in animal studies to determine if the compound will have an acceptable safety profile and if it will be effective in treating the targeted disease or condition (i.e. show efficacy in treatment). For certain diseases, animal models may exist which may predict human efficacy. · Investigational New Drug (“IND”) Application. After completing preclinical testing, an IND application is filed with the FDA for permission to test the compound in humans. The IND application includes the results of any animal studies and any other relevant safety and efficacy data. · Clinical Trials. These trials consist of a series of increasingly complex and costly studies (Phase I, II and III) designed to show the effect of drug candidates administered to human subjects that ultimately can involve up to several thousand patients over a multi-year period. o Phase I Trials. Represents the initial introduction of an investigational new drug into a small number of healthy human subjects to test for safety concerns and possible adverse effects, dosage tolerance, absorption, biodistribution, metabolism, excretion and clinical pharmacology. These trials may also potentially provide early indications of efficacy. In some instances, a slightly more advanced Phase Ib study can be used as a “proof of concept,” or confirmation of the drug developer’s hypothesis. o Phase II Trials. Includes early, controlled, small-scale clinical studies conducted to obtain initial data on the efficacy of the drug, to determine dose tolerance and optimal dose range and to gather additional information relating to safety and potential adverse effects. Phase II studies are sometimes divided into Phase IIa and Phase IIb. Phase IIa is designed to assess “proof of concept” (i.e. does the drug demonstrate the intended therapeutic effect), as well as dosing requirements (how much drug should be given), and Phase IIb is specifically designed to study efficacy (how well the drug works at the prescribed doses). o Phase III Trials. Consists of clinical trials involving substantially larger groups of subjects and longer testing after initial evidence of effectiveness of the drug has been obtained in Phase II. These trials also gather additional information about effectiveness and safety needed to evaluate the overall benefit-risk relationship of the drug. Phase III studies usually include several hundred to several thousand people and may be conducted over multiple years. As Phase III trials are the most expensive of the clinical trials, with costs frequently in excess of $50 million and in some cases more than $100 million, smaller companies often attempt to outlicense their drug candidates prior to Phase III trials. · New Drug Application (“NDA”) and Approval. Following successful completion of clinical trials, the developers are required to file NDA applications with the FDA for its approval to allow commercial manufacture, marketing and sale of the drug (referred to as commercializing the drug). This process can also be both extensive and burdensome and the FDA can request additional testing. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing activities consist of business development efforts to identify third parties potentially interested in our drug candidates. These activities are ongoing and it may take a considerable period of time for us to be able to complete a commercial arrangement. We don’t expect that we will be able to complete any such arrangement for our lead candidate, GL1001, until we complete the anticipated Phase Ib/IIa clinical trial in mid to late 2010. In 2008, we approached what we believe to be the majority of companies who may have a therapeutic interest in the gastrointestinal disease market. We received indications of interest from a number of these companies, and have kept such interested companies aware of our progress. In 2009, we expect to continue to have additional communications and discussions with companies interested in GL1001. 7 Research & Development Research and development expenses for the years ended 2008 and 2007 were $9.7 million and $10.3 million, respectively. In 2007, our research and development expenses primarily consisted of costs associated with our discontinued drug repositioning business. In 2008, our research and development expenses primarily related to the development of GL1001. Contractual Arrangements We obtained rights to GL1001 from Millennium and to romazarit and tiapamil from Roche. Under the terms of a Compound Transfer and Development Agreement with Millennium dated July 26, 2006, we obtained broad rights to develop and/or outlicense GL1001 in any disease indication, except for oncology diseases. Under the agreement, we, or any successor that ultimately develops GL1001, would be obligated to make certain milestone payments to Millennium based on the achievement of the following milestones: · upon completion of Phase IIa clinical trials; · upon initiation of Phase III clinical trials; and · upon first obtaining regulatory approval to market the drug. In addition, the developer of GL1001 will be obligated to make royalty payments to Millennium equal to a percentage of net commercial sales of approved products containing GL1001. The term of this agreement extends to the life of any of our valid patents for GL1001. Under the terms of the Drug Indication Evaluation and Development Agreement with Roche dated December 5, 2005, and amended on June 13, 2008, we obtained rights to develop and/or outlicense romazarit and tiapamil. Under the agreement, we, or any successor that ultimately develops either tiapamil or romazarit, would be obligated to make certain milestone payments to Roche based on the achievement of the following milestones: · upon filing or reactivation of an IND; · upon preliminary efficacy established in first Phase II clinical trial; · upon initiation of Phase III trials; and · upon obtaining regulatory approval to market the drug in the United States, Europe and/or Japan. In addition, the developer of either tiapamil or romazarit will be obligated to make royalty payments to Roche equal to a percentage of net commercial sales of approved products containing such drug candidates. The term of this agreement extends to the life of any of our valid patents for tiapamil or romazarit, as the case may be. Competition Currently, there are many small pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies developing drugs. In many instances, these companies may not have the experience or resources necessary to bring a compound through the full clinical and regulatory process to obtain marketing approval and thus must seek assistance from larger companies. Recently, difficult economic conditions and the difficulties smaller companies have in obtaining capital appear to be causing more of these smaller companies to seek such assistance earlier in the development process. We compete with these companies to make commercial arrangements with larger, more well-established, companies. In addition, we expect to see competition from both manufacturers of existing drugs and drugs currently in development to treat patients afflicted with diseases or conditions that can be treated with our drug candidates. Products in this market will be differentiated based on cost, effectiveness, dosage sizes, side effects and interaction with other therapies and drugs. Companies such as Proctor & Gamble Pharmaceuticals, Pfizer, Inc., Salix Pharmaceuticals Ltd. and Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc. currently market drugs that we anticipate would compete with GL1001 for the treatment of IBD. We believe that the following companies are currently developing drugs that, if approved, would also compete with GL1001 for IBD treatment: Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd., DanioLabs Ltd., BioLineRx, Ltd., Cosmo Pharmaceuticals S.p.A., AGI Therapeutics PLC and SLA Pharma AG. There may be other drugs in development for IBD treatment of which we are not aware. 8 Suppliers We outsource a number of technical activities to achieve our business goals. These activities include performing preclinical and clinical testing, compound manufacturing and designing clinical protocols that meet FDA and other regulatory standards. We have entered into contractual arrangements with experienced professional consultants to provide advice and assist in meeting various regulatory requirements while we seek to conduct clinical trials for GL1001. We also have a manufacturing agreement to provide sufficient quantities of GL1001 for our clinical testing needs. Finally, we have service arrangements with a number of clinical research organizations to design the protocols, identify clinical facilities to recruit participants and conduct trials and to manage and oversee the actual conduct of clinical trials for GL1001. Because there is an adequate supply of other providers who could perform the services provided by our suppliers, we do not believe that we are dependent on any of our suppliers. Intellectual Property Rights As of December 31, 2008, we own or have license rights to 36 issued patents, 21 of which are United States patents, and 47 patent applications, 23 of which are United States utility (non-provisional) or provisional patent applications. Of such patents and patent applications, 6 US patents and 9 patent applications relate to GL1001 and 6 US patents and 11 patent applications relate to the other drug candidates in our pipeline. The remaining patents relate to programs or technologies that we expect to outlicense, assign or abandon in 2009. At this time, we believe that, in particular, only the patent applications related to new indications of usage for GL1001 (and the in-licensed rights to Millennium patents and patent applications for GL1001) are material to our business. The patents and patent applications associated with our drug candidates generally fall into two categories: composition of matter patents and method-of-use patents. Composition of Matter Patents. Typically, patents on new compounds are filed before or during the discovery stages of development, when lead compounds are identified as prospective drugs. These are typically composition of matter patents that set forth the invention of a compound described by its chemical composition and other physical or behavioral properties. These patents often claim initially-conceived methods for using the compound. When granted, any commercial use of the compound would likely infringe such patents and thus they provide full protection against generic manufacturers or developers of alternate uses. Method-of-Use Patents. By contrast, method-of-use patents describe discoveries of new potential uses of pre-existing compounds, but do not claim the invention of the compound itself. These patents provide protection against infringement by other parties that may seek to use a compound in a way that is claimed in the patent, even if that compound’s composition of matter patent has expired. In this situation, while it may not be infringement to manufacture and sell a particular approved drug that is off patent (i.e. no longer protected by a composition of matter patent), it is likely to be infringement to sell the drug marketed for a use described in a valid method-of-use patent. A perceived industry risk with method-of-use patents is that, without infringing such patents, generic manufacturers can market and sell approved pharmaceuticals for other uses that are not covered by the method-of-use patents; however, doctors may prescribe such generic products for the uses that are claimed by the method-of-use patents. In the cases of our drug candidates, these drugs have not been approved for any use; thus, generic companies seeking to sell and market our drug candidates simply because composition of matter patents have expired would have to go through lengthy clinical trials and approval processes in order to bring these drug candidates to market for any use that would not otherwise infringe our method-of-use patents. We also have licenses granting us exclusive rights in particular issued composition of matter patents and patent applications for GL1001 that are currently owned by Millennium. Pursuant to these licenses with Millennium, which expire only when the patent life ends, we have the right to participate in the prosecution and other strategic decisions for these patents and patent applications. Patents and patent applications associated with our drug candidates are the primary method for protecting our intellectual property rights. For intellectual property rights that are not eligible for patent protection, we rely on confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protection measures to protect our interests. We take security measures to protect our proprietary know-how and technologies and confidential data and information, including requiring all employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements. In arrangements with third parties (including suppliers) that require the sharing of know-how and other confidential information, our policy is to make available only such information as is relevant to our agreements with such parties, subject to appropriate contractual restrictions, including requirements for them to maintain confidentiality and use such information solely in accordance with our agreement. However, such measures may not adequately protect our information. 9 In connection with the sale of our Genomics Assets, we also obtained a perpetual, royalty-free license to the genomics databases we had developed by our former Genomics Division that allow us to use such databases, in the form they existed as of the date of sale, for drug development. Additional Government Regulation As described above, our preclinical and clinical activities are regulated by the FDA. In addition we use third-party manufacturers to produce GL1001. These third party manufacturers are subject to FDA regulations and inspections. Also, new government requirements may be established that could delay or prevent our drug candidates from further clinical development. Our laboratory is located in our facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Our sublease for this facility expires by June 30, 2009, and we do not anticipate leasing additional laboratory space as we now use outside contractors to perform the majority of our laboratory work. Our laboratory is currently subject to a variety of national, state and local laws and regulations. We maintain standard operating procedures and the documentation necessary to comply with regulations relating to hazard communication and employee right-to-know regulations, the handling, storage and disposal of medical specimens, laboratory materials and hazardous waste and radioactive materials and the safety and health of laboratory employees. The cost of complying with such regulations is not material. We no longer use controlled substances in our laboratory; however, in 2008 such use was regulated and subject to licensure by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration and relevant state and local agencies. We are in the process of closing this license and removing any remaining controlled substances from our laboratory. The regulations of the United States Department of Transportation and the United States Postal Service apply to the transportation of laboratory specimens via surface and air. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety, which require us to follow certain procedures, including providing ongoing training and proper equipment for employees working in our facilities. Our employees receive training focusing on compliance with applicable hazardous materials regulations and health and safety guidelines. Seasonality Our business is not subject to predictable seasonal variation. Human Resources As of December 31, 2008, we had 14 full-time employees, all of whom reside within the United States. Most of our employees are engaged directly in the management and administration of the Company. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and management considers relations with our employees to be good. Available Information We maintain an Internet site at www.orepharma.com. However, material contained on our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. We make available free of charge on or through our Internet site our SEC filings, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports we file or furnish pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 10 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is subject to risk factors common to other small drug development companies and to risks particular to its own situation. While it is not possible to predict or identify all such risk factors, set forth below are what we believe to be the most significant risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. This list is not meant to be all-inclusive. You should carefully consider these risks and all other information included in this Form 10-K, together with all other risks associated with small public drug development companies and all risks associated with investing under difficult economic uncertainties. Each of these risk factors could have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as adversely affect the value of our Common Stock. Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Current Business and Industry Our business is dependent on the successful development of our drug candidates. Similar to other small drug development companies, we have a limited number of drug candidates and our business is dependent on their success. We currently have three drug candidates in our pipeline; however, our primary effort is focused on our lead drug candidate, GL1001. If we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize GL1001, it is unlikely that we will have sufficient resources to develop the other drug candidates in our pipeline. Small drug development companies with drug candidates in testing stages face numerous risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: · whether they can successfully conduct preclinical and clinical testing of their drug candidates and whether such testing produces results sufficiently positive to support entering into outlicensing or other commercial arrangements with third parties; · whether they can design protocols and recruit sufficient subjects with the right characteristics and conduct clinical testing to adequately prove the safety and therapeutic effectiveness of their drug candidates at a cost acceptable to the company; · whether testing of their drug candidates demonstrates acceptable therapeutic effect; · whether testing of their drug candidates reveals unanticipated safety issues or undesirable side effects; · whether regulatory review and approval by the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory authorities can be timely and successfully completed; · whether their drug candidates appear to have sufficient potential economic return to interest investors and/or commercial partners; · whether sufficient funding is available to operate the company and to conduct the necessary testing and clinical trials; and · whether commercial partners are successful in developing and commercializing any drug candidates and whether such drug candidates produce sufficient revenue to pay any third party license fees associated with those drug candidates, support the companies and provide a financial return to their stockholders. In addition to the foregoing, our drug candidates are subject to additional risks and uncertainties which include, but are not limited to: · whether we experience difficulties or delays in the initiation, progress or completion of clinical trials for our drug candidates, including GL1001 trials, whether caused by competition, adverse events, investigative site initiation rates, patient enrollment rates, regulatory issues or other factors; · whether the clinical trials demonstrate that GL1001 is a safe and effective treatment for diseases of commercial interest; · whether the safety and/or efficacy results of the GL1001 trials support developing an NDA in the United States or any other country; and · whether an NDA is approved by the FDA or any other regulatory authority. Adverse outcomes with regard to any of the foregoing risks and uncertainties could cause a drug candidate to fail, either technically, economically or commercially, and such failure could deplete or exhaust our resources. 11 If we are unable to develop commercial arrangements for our drug candidates, we may be unable to generate revenues. Prior to late-stage clinical testing, smaller drug development companies often must outlicense or otherwise partner a drug candidate to or with a larger company with more financing and resources because smaller companies lack the resources necessary to (a) conduct late-stage clinical testing, which is very expensive and time consuming, and (b) manufacture and commercialize the product. Because other funding available to small drug development companies is difficult and expensive to obtain in the current economic climate, we will face significant competition from other small drug development companies in our attempt to interest larger companies in our drug candidates. This competitive environment could force us to outlicense or otherwise partner our drug candidates at earlier stages and to accept less compensation. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete successful commercial arrangements for our drug candidates. There are numerous risks associated with the commercialization of drug candidates. If GL1001 or any of our other drug candidates is commercialized, there are additional risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to: · whether the government, private health insurers and other third-party payors will provide sufficient coverage or reimbursement for products derived from our drug candidates; · whether such products will achieve sufficient acceptance by the medical community; · whether alternative or more effective drug candidates or treatment strategies are developed; and · whether insurance covering our drug candidates will sufficiently cover product liability claims. Adverse outcomes with regard to any of the foregoing risks and uncertainties would hinder or prevent the successful commercialization of GL1001 or any of our other drug candidates and could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Because our drug candidates and our development and collaboration efforts depend on our intellectual property rights, adverse events affecting such rights would harm our ability to commercialize our drug candidates. Our success will depend to a large degree on our own, our licensors’ and potential partners’ ability to obtain and defend patents for our drug candidates. Our patent position on drug candidates involves complex legal and factual questions. Specific risks and uncertainties that we face in the area of patent exclusivity include, but are not limited to: · whether the pending patent applications we have filed, or to which we have licensed rights, result in issued patents and the length of time it takes to obtain issued patents; · whether the claims of any patents which are issued on our pending applications provide commercially meaningful protection or value; · whether the patents licensed or issued to us provide adequate exclusivity for all aspects of our proprietary technology; · whether other companies challenge patents issued or licensed to us; and · whether the patent protection available is deemed adequate protection by our commercial partners to invest in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. Adverse outcomes with regard to any of the foregoing risks and uncertainties could have a detrimental impact on the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. We may need to initiate patent enforcement litigation or be subject to future infringement claims. Various organizations, including companies, academic institutions and non-profit institutions are developing drug candidates. Many of these drug candidates are subject to the same evolving legal standards and related uncertainties about patent protection. Therefore, it may be necessary for us to initiate litigation to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We may not have the resources to initiate such litigation, and if we do, we may not prevail in such litigation. In addition, we may be the subject of patent infringement claims raised by other parties; we could incur substantial litigation costs to defend ourselves in such infringement suits. 12 Risks and Uncertainties Related to our Sold or Discontinued Businesses We remain subject to outstanding obligations with respect to our sold or discontinued businesses. We previously conducted a genomics business, a preclinical business, a drug repositioning business and, on a smaller scale, a molecular diagnostic business. In most cases, when we sold or discontinued these businesses, we assigned the leases for the space required to conduct these businesses, but remain liable to the landlord with regard to several properties if the assignees of such properties fail to timely make rental payments or otherwise breach the terms of such leases. Such leases expire through December 2013 and at December 31, 2008 represented a potential aggregate contingent liability of $12.2 million. We also accepted promissory notes in partial payment of the sales price for two of our sold or discontinued businesses ($3 million due in June 2009 and $0.4 million due each in December 2009 and June 2010) that have not yet come due and agreed to remain liable and to indemnify the purchasers of our discontinued businesses to various degrees, and subject to various limitations and exclusions, with regard to any claims resulting from the discontinued businesses. Therefore, risks and uncertainties applicable to our sold or discontinued businesses include, but are not limited to: · whether the promissory notes will be paid in full and without dispute when due; · whether claims will be made against us for any indemnity provided to purchasers or by any customer or supplier of the sold or discontinued businesses; and · whether the assignees of the various leases will make rental payments and otherwise comply with the terms of such leases for the balance of the lease terms, or if any of them default, whether we will be able to limit any resulting lease liability. General Business Risks and Risks Related to Our Common Stock We have a history of operating losses that could continue for some time. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception, including losses of $22.5 million in 2008 and $34.7 million in 2007. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $372.8 million. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred from the businesses we sold and the development of our drug development business. These costs have exceeded our revenue and we expect to incur additional losses in the future. We have limited funding available and may not be able to obtain the additional funding we need to continue to develop our drug candidates as planned. We have limited funding available, but have made and are continuing to make substantial efforts to reduce our rate of cash usage so that we will have sufficient funds to complete the Phase Ib/IIa clinical trial we believe is needed to realize value with respect to GL1001. As part of those efforts, we are reducing our workforce and attempting to reduce other expenses; however, we may also need to seek additional funding in the near future. There is no assurance that funding will be available or will be on terms acceptable to us or to our shareholders. If we are unable to obtain necessary financing, or financing on favorable terms, when needed, our business would materially suffer and we may not be able to continue our strategies, including continuing to develop our drug candidates. If additional financing is obtained through the issuance of equity securities or debt convertible to equity, our existing stockholders could experience significant dilution. Our Common Stock is subject to the possibility of delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market. Our Common Stock, which is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, is currently trading below the minimum $1.00 per share price necessary for such listing. Such requirement has been temporarily suspended by NASDAQ until at least April 2009; however, if we are unable to meet this requirement when reinstated, our Common Stock could be delisted by NASDAQ. 13 We may not be able to hire or retain key officers or employees that we need to implement our business strategy and develop our drug candidates. Due to our efforts to reduce cash usage, we have had to significantly reduce our workforce. These changes could have potential negative effects on our operations. Additionally, these workforce reductions combined with the uncertainty of our future could make it difficult to retain and recruit qualified personnel as we continue to develop our drug candidates. The competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the loss of services of certain personnel or our inability to attract additional personnel when needed could adversely affect our business. In order to hire and retain personnel, we may be required to issue significant amounts of equity-based compensation, which could cause our existing stockholders to experience dilution. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 