ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks associated with an investment in our common stock and all of the other information in this 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Customers in the oil and gas industry account for a significant portion of our sales. Reduced expenditures by customers in this industry are likely to reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Customers related to the oil and gas industry accounted for approximately 50% of our sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005. The oil and gas industry is a cyclical commodity business, with product demand and prices based on numerous factors such as general economic conditions and local, regional and global events and conditions that affect supply, demand and profits. While demand for our products and services has benefited from recent high demand and prices experienced by our customers in this industry, a decline in demand or prices for oil and gas will likely cause a decrease in demand for our products and services and result in a decline in our revenues, profit margins and cash flows. Our products include complex systems for energy and industrial markets which are subject to operational and liability risks. We are engaged in the manufacture and installation of complex power distribution and control systems for the energy and industrial markets. These systems are frequently complex and susceptible to unique engineering elements that are not tested in the actual operating environment until commissioned. As a result, we may incur unanticipated additional operating and warranty expenses that were not anticipated when the fixed-price contracts were estimated and executed resulting in reduced profit margins on such projects. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, which may result in a loss of market share or decrease in revenue or profit margin. Our products and services are provided in a highly competitive environment and we are subject to competition from a number of similarly sized or larger businesses which may have greater financial and other resources than are available to us. Factors that affect competition include timely delivery of products and 8 services, reputation, manufacturing capabilities, price, performance and dependability. Any failure to adapt to a changing competitive environment may result in a loss of market share and a decrease in revenue and profit margins. We often utilize fixed-price contracts which could adversely affect our financial results. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for such fixed price contracts. The cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may result in actual revenue and gross profits for a project differing from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability and losses on projects. Depending upon the size of fixed price contracts, variations from estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. We rely on a few key employees whose absence or loss could disrupt our operations or be adverse to our business. Our continued success is dependent on the continuity of several key management, operating and technical personnel. The loss of these key employees would have a negative impact on our future growth and profitability. We have not entered into written employment agreements with any of our key personnel other than our Chief Financial Officer, the CEO of M&I and two executives at our American Access subsidiary. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted by rapid growth. We have experienced a significant increase in the sales of our products and services since 2004. We cannot be certain that our personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our operations as they expand to meet continued growth. Any future growth also will impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. We cannot be certain that we can recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. To the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could lead to a loss of revenue or profitability. Our ability to provide high-quality products and services on a timely basis requires that we employ an adequate number of skilled personnel. Accordingly, our ability to increase our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We, like many of our competitors, are currently experiencing shortages of qualified personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy or that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. Natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions could harm our business and operations. Natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, and the actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations or those of our customers, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. We manufacture products and operate plants in Mississippi, Texas and Florida. Operations were disrupted in 2005 due to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Although we did not suffer a material loss as a result of these disruptions due to insurance coverage and advance preparations, it is not possible to predict future similar events or their consequences, any of which could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products, or disrupt our supply chain. 9 We generate a significant portion of our revenues from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business outside of the United States. Approximately 40% of our revenues in 2006 were generated from projects and business operations outside of the United States, primarily provided to the upstream oil and gas industry in the following countries: Russia, Djibouti, Singapore, Australia, India, Ecuador, Dubai and Peru. This percentage was approximately 20% during in 2007. The decline from the prior year reflects a $6 million sale to China that occurred in 2006. The oil and gas industry operates in both remote and potentially politically unstable locations, and numerous risks and uncertainties affect our non-United States operations. These risks and uncertainties include changes in political, economic and social environments, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, as well as United States laws affecting activities of United States companies abroad, including tax laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. In addition, the costs of providing our services can be adversely and/or unexpectedly impacted by the remoteness of the locations and other logistical factors. We entered into a joint venture with a Chinese energy services company in 2006. This investment represents our initial experience operating in China and as a result we may encounter unforeseen or unexpected operating, financial, political or cultural factors that could impact its business plans and the expected profitability from such investment. We will face risks if China loses normal trade relations with the United States and it may be adversely affected by the diplomatic and political relationships between the United States and China. As a result of the relatively weak Chinese legal system in general and the intellectual property regime in particular, we may face additional risk with respect to the protection of its intellectual property in China. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could adversely affect our investment and business opportunities in China. Increases in raw material prices will increase our operating costs, and we may be unable to pass all these increases on to our customers in the form of higher prices for our products. Copper, steel and aluminum represent a significant element of our material cost. Significant increases in the prices of these materials can reduce our estimated operating margins if we are unable to recover such increases from customer revenues. Foreign Currency Transaction Risk AETI maintains an investment in its Singapore joint venture, M&I Electric Far East PTE, Ltd. The functional currency of this joint venture is the Singapore dollar. The amount of its investment is translated into United States dollars at the exchange rate in effect at the end of each quarterly reporting period. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income in AETI’s consolidated balance sheet. The investment in marketable securities consists of common shares of Oakwell Engineering, AETI’s partner in MIEFE. Oakwell is a distributor of electrical and energy-related products. These shares trade on the Singapore Stock Exchange and are denominated in Singapore dollars. We completed an investment of 16.0 million Yuan (approximately $2.0 million) in our Chinese joint venture, BOMAY, in March, 2007. The functional currency of this joint venture is the Chinese Yuan. BOMAY’s financial statements will be translated into United States dollars at the rate prevailing at the end of each quarterly reporting period and any resulting adjustment will be recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. Under the terms of the Equity Joint Venture Contract, we were obligated to make a total investment of 16.0 million Yuan (approximately $2.0 million) during the initial two years of the joint venture. In the recent past, our investments in China and Singapore have benefitted from the general weakness of the U.S. dollar. There is no assurance that this trend will continue in the future. 10 Other than the aforementioned items, we do not believe it is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk because all of our sales and purchases are denominated in United States dollars. Commodity Price Risk We are subject to market risk from fluctuating market prices of certain raw materials. While such materials are typically available from numerous suppliers, commodity raw materials are subject to price fluctuations. We endeavor to recoup these price increases from our customers on an individual contract basis to avoid operating margin erosion. Although historically we have not entered into any contracts to hedge its commodity risk, we may do so in the future. Commodity price changes can have a material impact on our prospective earnings and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 