Item 1A. Risk Factors. As with any business, we face a number of risks. If any of the following risks occur, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition would likely suffer. We have grouped these risk factors into several categories, as follows: 1. General Risks Related to Our Business 2. Risks Related to Our Affordable Housing Group 3. Risks Related to Our Commercial Real Estate Group 4. Risks Related to Our Portfolio Management Group 5. Risks Related to Our Credit Risk Products Group 6. Risks Related to Application of Tax Laws 7. Risks Related to Investing in Our Company 1. General Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to raise capital or access financing on favorable terms, or at all, and we may also be unable to repay or refinance our debt obligations Our outstanding debt could limit our operational flexibility, limit our ability to raise additional capital or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. Capital limitations could affect our ability to grow assets under management, a major aspect of our business plan, since we achieve at least part of this growth through co-investment in sponsored funds and by initially warehousing investments for new funds, both of which require capital. Furthermore, turbulence in the credit markets that began in 2007 has led to decreased availability of many forms of financing, our ability to raise capital has been negatively impacted by a sharp decline in our common share price and our Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility include significant limitations. We are subject to the risks normally associated with outstanding debt, including the risks that: · our vulnerability to downturns in our business is increased, requiring us to reduce expenditures we need to expand our businesses; · our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; · we may be unable to refinance existing indebtedness; and · the terms of any refinancing may be less favorable than the terms of existing indebtedness. In December 2008, we amended our Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility. The amended agreement contains limitations, including: · incurring additional unsecured indebtedness without lender approval; · declaring and paying dividends, as described further in “We are currently restricted from paying dividends and non-payment of dividends could result in the addition of members to our board” under Risks Related to Investing in Our Company below; · new business investment without lender approval; and · conducting transactions with our affiliates. - 7 - - In addition, under our Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility, we are required to raise a minimum of $5.5 million by collecting or selling assets deemed to be non-core during 2009 and utilize such proceeds to pay down amounts owed under the facilities (described further in “Our assets are pledged and there are restrictions on securitizing/monetizing them” below). Further, proceeds of certain transactions must be used to repay the outstanding balances under these facilities. The outstanding balance on the Term Loan is required to be reduced to $39.0 million by July 15, 2009 and is due in full by December 31, 2009. The outstanding balance on the termed-out portion of the Revolving Credit Facility is required to be reduced to $190.0 million by June 30, 2010, and is due in full by September 30, 2010. See the description of our existing facilities under “ITEM 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – SECTION 4 – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If markets continue to experience volatility and general tightening of credit, we may be unable to achieve our strategic goals. Alternatively, the debt we do arrange may carry a higher rate of interest, thereby decreasing our net income and cash flows. As a result, certain growth initiatives could prove more costly or not economically feasible. A failure to meet required amortization payments of our debt facilities, renew our existing credit facilities, to increase our capacity under our existing facilities or to add new or replacement debt facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we would pursue any options available to us in order to avoid the consequences of covenant default (such as working with our creditors to extend, modify or restructure our obligations, dispose of our assets or adjust our business, or otherwise pursue strategic and financial alternatives available to us in order to preserve enterprise value), we can provide no assurance that such efforts would enable us to avoid defaults on or the acceleration of our obligations or if implemented will not involve a substantial restructuring or alteration of our business operations or capital structure Our businesses, results of operations and financial condition have been materially and adversely affected by recent market conditions During 2008, worldwide economic conditions significantly deteriorated, including a steep decline in equity markets (which continue to be extremely volatile), lack of liquidity, widened credit spreads, lack of price transparency and the collapse of several prominent financial institutions. Global regulators and central banks have taken a number of unprecedented steps to address these issues, but it is unclear whether these measures will be effective, or, if effective, when the markets will stabilize. We have been materially and adversely affected by these conditions and events in a number of ways, including: · severe and continued declines to the market values of the investment portfolios of Consolidated Partnerships, leading to significant other-than-temporary impairments; · a general decline in business activity caused by stagnation in the many markets in which we operate; and · curtailment of our liquidity as described in “We may be unable to raise capital or access financing on favorable terms, or at all, and we may also be unable to repay or refinance our debt obligations” above. Until markets recover, our businesses may continue to be negatively impacted. Furthermore, there can be no assurance, even with government intervention, that we will resume levels of business activities we experienced in the past. Our investments are relatively illiquid and would be difficult to sell, or to sell at acceptable prices Most of our investments such as CMBS, retained CMBS certificates, Freddie Mac Certificates, investments in tax credit property partnerships and mortgage loans lack a regular trading market. If a situation arises where we require additional cash, we could be forced to liquidate some or all of our investments on unfavorable terms (if any sale is possible) adversely affecting our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Additionally, the loss of future income from these investments would negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows in future periods. We rely upon business relationships which may not continue We rely upon relationships with key investors and developers. If these relationships do not continue, or if we are unable to form new relationships, our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected. Specifically, in 2008: · five key investors provided approximately 91.9% of the equity capital raised by tax credit syndication funds we sponsored (JP Morgan Chase & Co. and HSBC Bank USA, N.A. each provided over 10.0% of the equity raised). Although Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were not investors of equity capital in these funds during 2008, they were significant investors in such funds in prior years, having contributed 13.3% of the equity capital raised in 2007; · five key developers provided approximately 65.8% of the tax credit properties for which we arranged equity financing (Penrose Properties, Inc. and Related Apartment Preservation LLC. each provided over 10.0%) ; · Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were the purchasers of 99.0% of the loans originated by our Commercial Real Estate and Affordable Housing groups in 2008; and - 8 - - · Freddie Mac is the counterparty to the re-securitization of our mortgage revenue bond portfolio. Our ability to generate revenue through mortgage sales to institutional investors largely depends on programs sponsored by GSE’s, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market. The federal government has placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in conservatorship in an attempt to stabilize those GSEs, but the full impact of the conservatorship is yet to be determined. We are not involved in the single family home mortgage business but we are involved with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with respect to the multifamily rental housing finance business, which extends across our Affordable Housing, Commercial Real Estate and Portfolio Management groups. Our agreements with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which afford us a number of advantages, may be canceled by the counterparty for cause. Cancellation of one or more of these agreements would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and could result in further disqualification with other counterparties and other materially adverse consequences. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do business with our key investors and developers or that new relationships will be formed. Factors beyond our control may cause investors or purchasers to curtail their activities. Developers may also experience financial difficulties that would, in turn, reduce the amount of business we transact with them. If developers were to fail, it could also lead to some of the adverse consequences listed under “There are risks associated with investments secured by real estate, which may negatively affect our net income and cash flows” below. We also rely upon relationships with providers of products in which we invest (e.g. CMBS) and investors who invest in the funds which we manage. Many of these businesses with which we had existing relationships are no longer in business or have been recently acquired by other institutions, and it will be necessary for us to build new relationships with CMBS issuers, Wall Street firms, banks and insurance companies who create and sell high-yield debt products, in order to obtain product for our own account or for funds that we manage. By reason of their regulated status, certain of our investors have regulatory incentives to invest in our sponsored investment funds in addition to the economic return from such investments. A change in such regulations could result in determinations by such investors to seek other investment opportunities. The inability to generate new income sources and to maintain our recurring income arrangements could have a negative impact on our net income and cash flows Two revenue sources in our Affordable Housing group are transaction fees generated by our origination of new tax credit investment funds and recurring fees payable by existing and future funds. Transaction fees are generally “up-front” fees that are generated: · by the origination of new investment funds; and · upon investment of the capital raised in an investment fund. Recurring fees are generated by the ongoing operation of investment funds we sponsor and/or manage, some of which have finite lives. With respect to funds originated in our Commercial Real Estate group, equity income is earned for our role as manager, our co-investment and our incentive fees. The termination of one or more of these recurring arrangements, or the inability to sponsor new funds that generate new income, would reduce net income and cash flows. Additionally, the terms of our Credit Facility restrict our ability to co-invest in new funds without lender consent. There can be no assurance that existing arrangements will not be reduced or terminated or that we will be able to realize revenues from new investment funds. Likewise, we earn fees for originating loans and ongoing fees for servicing loans. A decline in origination volume or the loss or termination of a servicing arrangement could adversely affect our results of operations and reduce net income and cash flows. There can be no assurance that existing recurring fee arrangements will not be reduced or terminated or that we will be able to realize revenues from new business. There are risks associated with investments secured by real estate, which may negatively affect our net income and cash flows Through our subsidiaries, we derive a large portion of our earnings by: · originating and managing funds that provide equity to tax credit property partnerships; · originating and managing funds that originate or acquire direct mortgage loans, high-yield CMBS or joint venture equity; · investing in mortgage revenue bonds; and · originating and servicing mortgages. - 9 - - Our success depends in large part on the performance of the properties underlying these investments, which subjects us to various types and degrees of risk, including the following: · the properties might not generate sufficient income to meet their operating expenses and payments on the related debt and/or operating expenses may escalate leading to the same result; · economic conditions may limit the amount of rent that can be charged at the properties, the timeliness of rent payments or a reduction in occupancy levels; · there may be rent limitations for certain properties that could limit our ability to generate the funds necessary to maintain the properties in proper condition; · if an investment defaults, the fair market value of the property securing such investment may be less than the principal amount of the investment; · there are certain types of losses which are either uninsurable or not economically insurable; as a result, the owners of the real estate securing our investments could be required to pay for such costs; and · a guarantor may be unable to fulfill its obligations. All of these conditions and events may increase the possibility that, among other things: · a property owner may be unable to meet its obligations to us as holder of its debt; · a property owner may default on a mortgage for which we have a loss-sharing obligation; · a fund may not be able to pay our fees; · a fund may not generate the return that we have committed to provide and we may be called upon to satisfy the promised return; · our incentive fees from fund management may be subject to recapture if the funds do not reach overall investment hurdles; and · we could lose our invested capital and/or anticipated future revenue. This could decrease the fair value of our investments, lower the fair value of assets we pledge as collateral, impair our ability to generate new business and negatively affect our net income and cash flows. We may suffer adverse consequences from changing interest rates Because a portion of our debt is variable rate and not hedged, an increase in interest rates could negatively affect our net income and cash flows. Additionally, increasing interest rates may: · reduce the fair value of our investments or the investments of funds we manage and residual interests in securitization transactions; · decrease the amount we could realize on the sale or financing of those investments; · reduce the income and incentive fees from funds that we manage; · reduce the number of properties economically feasible to finance; · reduce the demand for financing, which could limit our ability to originate loans or to structure transactions, thereby reducing fees and interest we receive; · increase our borrowing costs; · restrict our access to capital; and · cause investors to find alternative investments that are more attractive than the equity funds we sponsor. Conversely, falling interest rates may prompt historical renters to become homebuyers, in turn potentially reducing the demand for the multifamily rental housing we finance. In addition, current market conditions have led to increased foreclosures, resulting in greater supply of low-cost homes which could lower the demand for multifamily rental housing. Further, a portion of our net income is generated by interest income we earn on mortgage escrow deposits. If interest rates decrease, our revenue decreases as well. Furthermore, strategies we may follow to address these risks carry risks of their own, including, but not limited to: · the potential inability to refinance variable-rate debt at terms we find acceptable; · lack of availability of alternate sources of fixed-rate or lower cost financing; · default by interest rate swap counterparties on their obligations to us; · our inability to match the duration or reset periods of assets and liabilities that we want to mitigate the effect of changing rates; and · other efforts to manage risks related to changes in interest rates that may not be successful. If a change in interest rates causes the consequences described above, or otherwise negatively affects us, the result could adversely affect our ability to generate net income or cash flows. - 10 - - We may be unable to raise capital for new investment funds A large part of our net income is based on fees and equity income we earn for originating or managing investment funds, many of which have finite lives. Our current strategy to expand our position as an asset manager is dependent upon our ability to attract investors to funds we originate. Additionally, the terms of our credit facilities restrict our ability to co-invest in new funds (without lender consent) which may prevent others from investing. If we are not successful in originating funds to expand our business and to replace others as they approach the end of their life cycles, our ability to earn income and generate cash flows will decline. Additionally, real estate underlies most of our business lines, whether by virtue of sponsoring funds associated with real estate or by direct investment. While sometimes viewed as an attractive investment sector, there is no guarantee that the investors in the funds we sponsor will continue to allocate capital to investments associated with real estate. Should there be a general decline in capital invested in the sector, our ability to sponsor funds would be diminished and the income we earn from these activities would decline. Certain management agreements have finite terms and may not be renewed which could negatively affect our net income and cash flows We receive fees or equity allocations from investment funds we sponsor and manage. These funds generally do not require or authorize their investors to approve the funds’ management arrangements with us as we will generally have controlling interests in the funds or the entities which control the funds. However, our management is subject to the fiduciary duty to the investors in those funds, which may affect our ability to continue to collect the fees and equity allocations. Furthermore, the organizational documents of certain of these funds allow for the investors to remove us as general partner or managing member without cause or upon the occurrence of certain events. Although the funds will generally be required to pay fair market value if they exercise this right, our right to receive future fees would terminate and there can be no assurance that the payment will fully compensate us for the future loss in revenue. Finally, many of these funds have finite lives, after which they are liquidated. The termination of a fund will result in a termination of the fees we receive from it. Heightened competition may negatively impact our earnings We are subject to competition in all of our business lines, as described in Item 1. – Business – Business Overview – Competition. As competition increases, we may experience compression in the level of profits we earn on our various investments and financing products due to, among other things: · reductions in the rate of fees we earn from originating and managing funds; · reductions in the rate of interest we earn on investments; · reductions in the rates of origination and servicing fees for mortgages; and · lower levels of discounts at which high-yield investments may be purchased. As we often borrow funds to make investments, rising interest rates may compound this issue. Absent cost reductions, such compression may not permit us to enjoy the margins we have achieved historically, thereby lowering our revenues and net income. Other parties have the first right to cash flows from our residual interest investments Because of our utilization of securitizations, we own certain on balance-sheet residual interests subordinate in right of payment to other senior securities. There are risks in owning such residual interests that could adversely affect our net income and cash flows, including: · the risk that borrowers may not be able to make payments, resulting in us, as the holder of the residual interests, receiving principal and interest payments that are less than expected or no payment at all; and · the risk that the holders of the senior interests may control the ability to enforce remedies, limiting our ability to take actions that might protect our interests. Further, the cash flows we receive for many of these investments are specifically pledged and must be used to reduce the balance outstanding under our credit facilities. Any reduction in the cash flows as noted above could prevent us from reducing our debt to required levels as of specified dates, thereby causing us to be in default of the agreements. Our assets are pledged and there are restrictions on securitizing/monetizing them Substantially all of our assets have been pledged as collateral in connection with our debt facilities and credit intermediation activities and we may not have full access to them until we exit the related programs. This may prevent us from entering into other financing agreements at terms more favorable than under existing agreements. Also, if we are unable to meet the payment terms under the related agreements, we may be forced to sell certain assets, which could result in losses and the elimination of income and cash flows we currently earn. - 11 - - There are risks of loss associated with our mortgage originations that may negatively impact our net income and cash flows In our DUS program, we originate loans through one of our subsidiaries that are thereafter purchased or credit enhanced by Fannie Mae. For most of these loans, we retain a first loss position with respect to loans that we originate and sell under this program. For these loss sharing loans, we assume responsibility for a portion of any loss that may result from borrower defaults, based on the Fannie Mae loss sharing formulas, and Fannie Mae risk Levels I, II or III. All of the 866 loss sharing loans in this program as of December 31, 2008 were Level I loans. For such loans, if a default occurs, we are responsible for the first 5% of the unpaid principal balance and a portion of any additional losses to a maximum of 20% of the original principal balance; any remaining loss is borne by Fannie Mae. For Level II and Level III loans, we may carry a higher loss sharing percentage. Under the terms of our master loss sharing agreement with Fannie Mae, we are responsible for funding 100% of mortgagor delinquency (principal and interest) and servicing advances (taxes, insurance and foreclosure costs) until the amounts advanced exceed 5% of the unpaid principal balance at the date of default. Thereafter, for Level I loans, we may request interim loss sharing adjustments which allow us to fund 25% of such advances until final settlement under the master loss sharing agreement. No interim sharing adjustments are available for Level II and Level III loans. We also participate in loss sharing transactions under Freddie Mac’s DUI program whereby we originate loans that are purchased by Freddie Mac. Under the terms of our master agreement with Freddie Mac, we are obligated to reimburse Freddie Mac for a portion of any loss that may result from borrower defaults on DUI transactions. For such loans, if a default occurs, our share of the loss will be the first 5% of the unpaid principal balance and 25% of the next 20% of the remaining unpaid principal balance to a maximum of 10% of the unpaid principal balance. The loss on a defaulted loan is calculated as the unpaid principal amount due, unpaid interest due and default resolutions costs (taxes, insurance, operation and foreclosure costs) less recoveries. Our maximum “first loss” exposure under the DUS and DUI programs is detailed in ITEM 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis – SECTION 4 – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Commitments and Contingencies - Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements. As a mortgage lender, we must comply with numerous licensing requirements, and our inability to remain in compliance with such requirements could adversely affect our operations and, in general, our reputation Like other mortgage lending companies, we must comply with the applicable licensing and other regulatory requirements of each jurisdiction in which we are authorized to lend. These requirements are complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. From time to time we are subject to examination by regulators and, if it is determined that we are not in compliance with the applicable requirements, we may be fined, and our license to lend in one or more jurisdictions may be suspended or revoked. We may be negatively impacted by new accounting literature currently proposed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) has proposed literature that, among other things, would require the consolidation of certain entities commonly referred to as “qualified” special purpose entities or QSPEs. For our CMBS funds, we purchase high-yield CMBS securities from QSPEs at which time we also, in general, obtain the primary and special servicing rights related to the underlying mortgages for the securities. Current interpretation of the proposed literature could result in us consolidating these entities which would impact our financial position on a gross basis. Consolidation would also obligate us to bear the cost of auditing such entities which would negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows to the extent we incurred additional audit, valuation and similar fees, which could be material. 2. Risks Related to Our Affordable Housing Group There is a risk of elimination of, or changes to, governmental programs that could limit our product offerings A significant portion of our Affordable Housing group revenues is derived from the syndication of partnership interests in partnerships that invest in properties eligible for LIHTCs which are a provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Section 42 of the Code authorizes federal LIHTCs for affordable multifamily rental housing. Under this program, a project either receives an allocation of federal LIHTCs from an agency designated by the government of the state in which the project is located or the project is entitled to the LIHTCs by reason of its being financed by volume cap mortgage revenue bonds. There are two types of credits: · 4% credits – for new buildings and existing buildings financed with mortgage revenue bonds that receive an allocation of the volume cap, or for new and existing buildings financed with below-market federal financing that receive an allocation of federal LIHTCs from state agencies; and - 12 - - · 9% credits – for new buildings that receive an allocation of federal LIHTCs from state agencies. The credits are taken over a period of ten years, which can span over an 11-year operating period. The credit amount is based on the qualified basis of each building, which is based upon the adjusted basis of the building multiplied by the percentage of units in the building leased to low-income tenants. In order to qualify for the federal LIHTC, the property must comply with either of the “20/50” or “40/60” tests that apply to tax-exempt bonds (see “The treatment of our income as federally tax exempt depends upon the application of tax laws that could be challenged” under Risks Related to Application of Tax Laws later in this section). In addition, the amount of rent that may be charged to qualifying low-income tenants cannot exceed 30% of the “imputed income” for each unit, i.e., 30% of the imputed income of a family earning 50% or 60% of area median income, as adjusted for family size. Failure to comply continuously with these requirements throughout the 15-year recapture period could result in a recapture of the federal LIHTCs. In addition, if the rents from the property are not sufficient to pay debt service on the mortgage revenue bonds or other financing secured by the property and a default ensues, the initial borrower could lose ownership of the project as the result of foreclosure of the mortgage. In such event, the initial equity investors would no longer be entitled to claim the federal LIHTCs, but the foreclosing lender could claim the remaining LIHTCs provided the project continues to be operated in accordance with the requirements of Section 42. As a result, there is a strong incentive for the federal LIHTC investor to ensure that the development is current on debt service payments by making additional capital contributions or otherwise. With respect to most of the properties, substantially all the multifamily units are rented to individuals or families earning no greater than 60% of area median income and, thus, substantially all of the qualified basis may be used to determine the amount of the federal LIHTC. This maximizes the amount of equity raised from the purchasers of the federal LIHTCs for each development and provides for the maximum amount of rent that can be obtained from tenants where there is currently strong occupancy demand. The Tax Credit funds we sponsor contribute the negotiated equity to the developer/owner, paid over a period of time. In the case of properties utilizing 4% credits, this contribution will usually provide between 25% and 35% of the costs of the development. For properties utilizing 9% credits, this contribution will usually provide between 45% and 55% of the cost of the development. Since LIHTCs are a part of the Code, Congress could repeal or modify this legislation at any time or modify the tax laws so that the value of LIHTC benefits is reduced. If such legislation is repealed or adversely modified, we would no longer be able to pursue this portion of our business strategy. Our role as a sponsor of investment funds and co-developer of Tax Credit properties exposes us to risks of loss In connection with the sponsorship of investment funds and joint venture activities for co-development of Tax Credit properties, we act as a fiduciary to the investors in our investment funds and are often required to also provide performance guarantees. We advance funds to acquire interests in Tax Credit property partnerships for inclusion in investment funds and, at any point in time, the amount of funds advanced can be material. Recovery of these amounts is subject to our ability to attract investors to new investment funds or, if investors are not found, the sale of the partnership interests in the underlying properties. We could also be liable to investors in investment funds and third parties as a result of serving as general partner or special limited partner in various investment funds. The Tax Credit properties utilize their cash flows to cover debt service costs as well as operational costs. We historically acquired mortgage revenue bonds that financed such properties and re-securitized most of the bonds in 2007. We retained a residual interest in that transaction, the value of which depends upon the underlying properties’ ability to cover debt service costs. If a significant number of property partnerships default on their obligations, the impact on the value of our residual interests could be material and would negatively impact our net income and cash flows. In addition, investors in the Tax Credit funds we sponsor and manage anticipate certain returns on their investment and for certain funds we have agreed to provide specified rates of return. If the Tax Credit properties in which these funds invest do not perform as expected, we may be required to make payments in order to meet our committed level of return (see also “There are risks associated with credit intermediation and commitments to provide specified rates of return that expose us to losses” under Risks Related to Our Credit Risk Products Group). We may advance monies to a fund to cover shortfalls at the property partnership level, although we are not required to do so, to maintain our relationship with Tax Credit fund investors and to preserve the value of our residual interests in the mortgage revenue bonds we re-securitized. However, the amount we may advance is subject to limitations imposed by our Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility and may not adequately address amounts needed to cover debt service costs. If we make such advances, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover the monies. If we determine that any such advances are not recoverable, the negative impact on our net income and cash flows could be material. - 13 - - Funds may not generate sufficient cash to pay fees due to us, which may negatively impact our net income and cash flows Much of the revenue in our Affordable Housing group is earned from fees that Tax Credit funds we sponsor and manage pay to our subsidiaries for services rendered. These funds are dependent upon the cash flows of Tax Credit property partnerships in which they invest to generate their own cash flows that are used to pay such fees for services, such as asset management and advisory services. As the Tax Credit property partnerships are susceptible to numerous operational risks (see “There are risks associated with investments secured by real estate, which may negatively affect our net income and cash flows” under General Risks Related to our Business above), the Tax Credit funds may not collect sufficient cash to pay the fees they owe to us. If we do not receive these fees, or if we determine that the fees are not collectible, the loss of such revenue would negatively impact our net income and cash flows. 3. Risks Related to Our Commercial Real Estate Group Investments in non-investment grade CMBS and High-Yield Debt are subject to risk of loss We have invested in subordinated CMBS for our own account and through the CMBS funds we sponsor and manage. Subordinated CMBS of the type in which we and our funds invest typically include "first loss" and non-investment grade subordinated interests, commonly referred to as high-yield. A first loss security is the most subordinate class in a structure and accordingly is the first to bear the loss upon a default, restructuring or liquidation of the underlying collateral, is the last to receive payment of interest and principal and is often not assigned an investment rating. Accordingly, such classes are subject to a greater risk of loss of principal and non-payment of interest than more senior, rated classes. The market values of subordinated interests in CMBS and other subordinated securities tend to be more sensitive to changes in economic conditions than more senior, rated classes. As a result of these and other factors, subordinated interests generally are not actively traded and are relatively illiquid investments. In addition, volatility in trading markets for CMBS has caused the value of investments to decline significantly in 2008. This circumstance is compounded by the decreased liquidity in the market for such investments and the decreased availability of long-term financing (see also “An inability to raise capital or access financing on favorable terms, or at all, could adversely affect our growth” under General Risks Related to our Business above). In addition, if market conditions continue into the liquidation periods of the investment funds we manage and they are required to sell assets, the losses they would realize could be significant. As we have co-investments in the funds and earn incentive fees based on their performance, the impact of such losses would negatively impact our net income and cash flows. 4. Risks Related to Our Portfolio Management Group If our loan servicing portfolio decreases, our net income and cash flows would be negatively affected A large portion of our revenues in the Portfolio Management group relate to recurring fees for servicing mortgages we originate or those for which we have sub-servicing or special servicing agreements. Loans in our portfolio are subject to maturity, prepayments, defaults and refinancing after which we may not recapture the loan. Changes in market factors may also reduce the level of pre-securitization servicing that we perform. Upon these events, our portfolio would decline, depriving us of the associated revenue stream. This, in turn, would negatively affect our net income and cash flows. A downgrade in our servicer ratings could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch rate us as a mortgage servicer. Our current favorable servicer ratings from these entities are important to conduct our loan servicing business. We can provide no assurance that these ratings will not be downgraded in the future. Any such downgrade could have an adverse effect on our business, financing activities, financial condition or results of operations. 5. Risks Related to Our Credit Risk Products Group There are risks associated with credit intermediation and commitments to provide specified rates of return that expose us to losses Through our subsidiaries, we provide credit intermediation to third parties for a fee. If such third parties default on their obligations for which we provided credit intermediation, our loss would likely be in an amount far in excess of the fee paid to us for providing the service. We also contract to provide specified internal rates of return to investors in tax credit funds we sponsor. In connection with such transactions we might be required to advance funds to ensure that the investors do not lose their expected tax benefits and, if the internal rate of return to investors falls below the specified level, we would be required to make a payment so that the specified rate of return will be achieved. Our maximum potential liability pursuant to those transactions is detailed in ITEM 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis – SECTION 4 – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Commitments and Contingencies – Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements. - 14 - - 6. Risks Related to Application of Tax Laws Our classification as a publicly traded partnership not taxable as a corporation is not free from doubt and could be challenged We, and many of our Affordable Housing and Commercial Real Estate subsidiaries, operate as partnerships or are disregarded for federal income tax purposes. This allows us to pass through our income, including our federally tax-exempt income, and deductions to our shareholders. The listing of our common shares on the Over-the-Counter Exchange causes us to be treated as a “publicly traded partnership” for federal income tax purposes. We believe that we have been and are properly treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. However, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) could challenge our partnership status and we could fail to qualify as a partnership in years that are subject to audit or in future years. Qualification as a partnership involves the application of numerous technical legal provisions. For example, a publicly traded partnership is generally taxable as a corporation unless 90% or more of its gross income is “qualifying” income (which includes interest, dividends, real property rents, gains from the sale or other disposition of real property, gain from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of interest or dividends, and certain other items). We have represented that in all prior years of our existence at least 90% of our gross income was qualifying income and we intend to conduct our operations in a manner such that at least 90% of our gross income will constitute qualifying income in the current year and in the future. Although the issue is not free from doubt, we believe we have been and are properly treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. In determining whether interest is treated as qualifying income under these rules, interest income derived from a “financial business” and income and gains derived by a “dealer” in securities are not treated as qualifying income. We have represented that we are acting as an investor with respect to our remaining mortgage revenue bond investments and that we have not engaged in, and will not engage in, a financial business, although there is no clear guidance on what constitutes a financial business under the tax law. We have taken the position that for purposes of determining whether we are in a financial business, Affordable Housing activities that we are engaged in now and that we contemplate engaging in prospectively would not cause us to be engaged in a financial business or to be considered a “dealer” in securities. The IRS could assert that our activities constitute a financial business. If our activities constitute (or as a result of increased volume constitute) a financial business or cause us to be treated as a dealer, there is a substantial risk that more than 10% of our gross income would not constitute qualifying income. We could also be treated as if we were engaged in a financial business if the activities of Centerline Capital Group (“CCG”) and its subsidiaries were attributed to us and were determined to constitute a financial business. CCG is subject to income tax on its income. Accordingly, we believe the activities and income of CCG and its subsidiaries will not be attributed to Centerline for purposes of determining Centerline’s tax status. In addition, in determining whether interest is treated as qualifying income, interest income that is determined based upon the income or profits of any person is not treated as qualifying income. A portion of the interest payable on participating interest bonds owned by us is determined based upon the income or profits of the properties securing our investments. Accordingly, if we were to receive more than 10% of our gross income in any given year from such “contingent interest,” the IRS could take the position that we should be treated as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. There can be no assurance that such monitoring would be effective in all events to avoid the receipt of contingent interest and any other non-qualifying income in any given year that exceeds 10% of our gross income because circumstances outside of our (or our subsidiaries) control could cause such a result. If, for any reason, less than 90% of our gross income constitutes qualifying income, items of income and deduction would not pass through to our shareholders and our shareholders would be treated for federal income tax purposes as stockholders in a corporation. We would be required to pay income tax at corporate rates on any portion of our net income that did not constitute tax-exempt income. In addition, a portion of our federally tax-exempt income may be included in determining our alternative minimum tax liability. Distributions by us to our shareholders would constitute dividend income taxable to such holders to the extent of our earnings and profits, which would include tax-exempt income, as well as any taxable income we might have, and the payment of these distributions would not be deductible by us. These consequences would have a material adverse effect on us, our shareholders and the price of our shares. There is a risk that the IRS will disagree with our judgment with respect to allocations We use various accounting and reporting conventions to determine each shareholder’s allocable share of income, including any market discount taxable as ordinary income, gain, loss and deductions. Our allocation provisions will be respected for federal income tax purposes only if they are considered to have “substantial economic effect” or are in accordance with the partners’ “interest in the partnership.” There is no assurance that the IRS will agree with our various accounting methods, conventions and allocation provisions, particularly our allocation of adjustments to shareholders attributable to the differences between the shareholders’ purchase price of common shares and their shares of our tax basis in our assets, pursuant to an election we made. The structure of our acquisitions could be challenged Our acquisitions of Centerline Affordable Housing Advisors LLC (“CAHA”) and other subsidiaries were structured to prevent us from realizing active income from these businesses and effectively to receive a tax deduction (via the allocation of subsidiary income) for payments made to its selling principals. It is possible that the IRS could challenge this structure, with material adverse consequences to us. First, the IRS could assert that we, as the parent trust, are the owner of these businesses, in which case the parent trust would realize an amount of active income from them that would require it to be treated as a corporation instead of a publicly traded partnership for income tax purposes. If the IRS prevailed, we would be required to pay taxes on that income, thereby reducing the amount available for us to make distributions. As a result, it is likely that the value of our shares would decline. Second, the IRS might assert that the Special Common Units (“SCUs”) and Special Common Interests (“SCIs”) held by the selling principals of the businesses and others are actually shares of our Company. If this position prevailed, the distributions payable on the units would not reduce the taxable income of CCG. In such event, CCG would be subject to increased tax, which could reduce our net income, our cash flows and our distributions, which could also result in a decrease in the portion of our distributions that is excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes. - 15 - - The treatment of our income as federally tax exempt depends upon the application of tax laws that could be challenged In our Affordable Housing business, we invest primarily in investments that generate tax-exempt income. However, the IRS may seek to re-characterize a portion of our tax-exempt income as taxable income as described below. If the IRS were successful, a shareholder’s distributive share of such income would be taxable to the shareholder, regardless of whether an amount of cash equal to such distributive share is actually distributed. Any taxable income would be allocated pro rata among our CRA Preferred Shares, our CRA Shares and our common shares. Tax-exemption of interest on mortgage revenue bonds On the date of original issuance or re-issuance of each mortgage revenue bond, nationally recognized bond counsel or special tax counsel rendered its opinion to the effect that, based on the law in effect on that date, interest on such mortgage revenue bonds is excludable from federally-taxable gross income, except with respect to any revenue bond during any period in which it is held by a “substantial user” of the property financed with the proceeds of such mortgage revenue bonds or a “related person” of such a “substantial user.” Each opinion speaks only as of the date it was delivered. However, an opinion of counsel has no binding effect and there is no assurance that the IRS will not contest these conclusions or, if contested, that they will be sustained by a court. The Code establishes certain requirements which must be met subsequent to the issuance and delivery of tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds for interest on such mortgage revenue bonds to remain excludable from federally-taxable gross income. Among these continuing requirements are restrictions on the investment and use of the revenue bond proceeds. In addition, there is a requirement that the property be operated as a rental property and that during the Qualified Project Period (defined below) at least either: · 20% of the units must be rented to individuals or families whose income is less than 50% of the area median gross income (the “20/50 test”); or · 40% of the units must be rented to individuals or families whose income is less than 60% of the area median gross income (the “40/60 test”); in each case with adjustments for family size. The Qualified Project Period begins when 10% of the units in the property are first occupied and ends on the latest of the date: (i) which is 15 years after 50% of the units are occupied; (ii) on which all the bonds have been retired; or (iii) on which any assistance provided under Section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 terminates. Continuing requirements also include compliance and compliance with rules pertaining to arbitrage. Each issuer of the mortgage revenue bonds, as well as each of the underlying borrowers, has covenanted to comply with certain procedures and guidelines designed to ensure satisfaction of the continuing requirements of the Code. Failure to comply with these continuing requirements of the Code may cause the interest on such bonds to be includable in federally-taxable gross income retroactively to the date of issuance, regardless of when such noncompliance occurs. Greenberg Traurig, LLP (also referred to as “Greenberg Traurig”) as our bond counsel, and Paul Hastings, as our securities counsel (Greenberg Traurig and Paul Hastings are collectively referred to herein as our “Counsel”), have not, in connection with this filing, passed upon and do not assume any responsibility for, but rather have assumed the continuing correctness of, the opinions of bond counsel or special tax counsel (including opinions rendered by Greenberg Traurig) relating to the exclusion from federally-taxable gross income of interest on the mortgage revenue bonds and have not independently verified whether any events or circumstances have occurred since the date such opinions were rendered that would adversely affect the conclusions set forth herein. “Substantial User Limitation” Interest on a mortgage revenue bond we own will not be excluded from gross income during any period in which we are a "substantial user" of the properties financed with the proceeds of such mortgage revenue bond or a "related person" to a "substantial user." A “substantial user” generally includes any underlying borrower and any person or entity that uses the financed properties on other than a de minimis basis. - 16 - - Greenberg Traurig has reviewed most of the mortgage revenue bonds we own, the ownership of the obligors of our mortgage revenue bonds and the ownership of our shares and our subsidiaries' shares and, with respect to the mortgage revenue bonds which it reviewed, concurs in the conclusion that we are not "substantial users" of the properties financed with the proceeds of the mortgage revenue bonds or related parties thereto. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS would not challenge such conclusion. If such challenge were successful, the interest received on any bond for which we were treated as a "substantial user" or a "related party" thereto would be includable in federally taxable gross income. Tax exemption of distributions on residual interest We hold residual interests in a large number of federally tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds, primarily through our re-securitization program with Freddie Mac. These residual interests entitle us to a share of the federally tax-exempt interest of such mortgage revenue bonds. Special tax counsel for each securitization program has rendered an opinion to the effect that the issuer of the residual interests will be classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and the holders of the residual interests will be treated as partners of such partnership. Consequently, as the holder of the residual interests, we treat our share of the federally tax-exempt income allocated and distributed to us as federally tax-exempt income. However, it is possible that the IRS could disagree with those conclusions and an alternative characterization could cause income from the residual interests to be treated as ordinary taxable income. If such an assertion of an alternative characterization prevailed, it would materially adversely affect us and our shareholders. In addition, it is possible that the interest on one or more of the mortgage revenue bonds in which we own a residual interest could be treated by the IRS as taxable ordinary income. In such event, the distributions on such residual interest would also, to the extent of such taxable interest on an underlying mortgage revenue bond, be treated as taxable ordinary income. Also, in most securitization programs, including the Freddie Mac securitization, we are obligated to repurchase any mortgage revenue bond the interest on which has been determined by the IRS to be taxable ordinary income. The following discussion relates only to our REIT subsidiary: Adverse consequences of failure to maintain REIT status may include taxation of a portion of our earnings not otherwise taxable Centerline REIT, Inc. (“Centerline REIT”), a subsidiary, intends to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. If Centerline REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to its stockholders would not be deductible in computing its taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Unless entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Code, Centerline REIT also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which it ceased to qualify as a REIT. Centerline REIT must distribute annually at least 90% of its taxable income (excluding any net capital gain) in order to be exempt from corporate income taxation of the earnings that it distributes. In addition, Centerline REIT is subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions it pays with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of: 1. 85% of its ordinary income for that year, 2. 95% of its capital gain net income for that year; and 3. 100% of its undistributed ordinary income and capital gain net income from prior years. While Centerline REIT intends to make distributions to its stockholders to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and to be exempt from the nondeductible excise tax, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may require it to borrow funds to meet this distribution requirement and to avoid the excise tax. In addition, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of its taxable income could cause Centerline REIT to: 1. distribute amounts that represent a return of capital; 2. distribute amounts that would otherwise be spent on capital expenditures or repayment of debt; or 3. distribute amounts that may be treated as excess inclusion income and accordingly, unrelated business taxable income in the hands of certain not-for-profit stockholders. To qualify as a REIT, Centerline REIT must satisfy certain requirements concerning the nature of its assets and income, which may restrict its ability to invest in various types of assets. Specifically: 1. at least 75% of Centerline REIT’s assets must consist of real estate assets, cash and cash items, and certain government securities, to ensure that the bulk of Centerline REIT’s investments are either equity or mortgage interests in real property; and - 17 - - 2. Centerline REIT will not be able to acquire securities (other than securities that are treated as an interest in real property or interests in a taxable REIT subsidiary) of any single issuer that would represent either more than 5% of the total value of its assets or 10% of the voting securities of such issuer, to ensure a diversification of Centerline REIT’s non-real-property investments. In addition, to satisfy the income requirements of a REIT, Centerline REIT generally will be restricted to acquiring assets that generate qualifying income for purposes of certain income tests. These restrictions could affect adversely Centerline REIT’s ability to optimize its portfolio of assets. Changes in Tax Laws Regarding REITs Could Adversely Affect Our Net Income Congress, and to some extent the United States Department of Treasury, as well as state legislatures and regulatory authorities, could at any time adversely change the way in which a REIT and its stockholders are taxed, by imposing additional entity-level taxes, further restricting the permissible beneficial ownership and types of assets and income of a REIT, requiring additional distributions, or changing the law in any other respect. Moreover, such changes could apply retroactively. Should any such changes be implemented, they would likely cause our net income to decline. 7. Risks Related to Investing in Our Company We are currently restricted from paying dividends and non-payment of dividends could result in the addition of members to our board Under our amended Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility, we are prohibited from paying dividends on most of our common and preferred shares. With respect to our 11.0% Preferred Shares (see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements), if dividends are in arrears for six or more quarterly periods, holders of those shares are entitled to nominate and elect two trustees to our Board for a one-year term. A similar provision exists under our Redeemable CRA Preferred Shares (see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements) if dividends are in arrears for six or more consecutive quarters. Common shareholders would have no vote related to the election of such trustees and the interest of the preferred shareholders that elect them may not be consistent with the interests of common shareholders. Holding our common stock could result in income taxes without corresponding cash distributions The Company continues to generate taxable income from its Commercial Real Estate businesses as well as taxable and nontaxable income from its remaining mortgage revenue bond holdings. As a partnership, this income will be passed through to our common shareholders. Further, since our economic interest in mortgage revenue bonds has decreased, we expect that the tax-exempt portion of our income will decline. With the suspension of the preferred and common dividends, as discussed above, most common shareholders will have a tax liability with respect to the taxable portion or our income and no cash distributions to offset that liability. We expect this to be the case as long as the debt facilities remain outstanding. Because we hold most of our investments through our subsidiaries, our shareholders are effectively subordinated to the liabilities and equity of our subsidiaries and our preferred shares We hold most of our investments through our subsidiaries. Because we own only common equity of our subsidiaries, we, and therefore holders of our shares, are effectively subordinated to the debt obligations, preferred equity, SCUs and SCIs of our subsidiaries, which at December 31, 2008, aggregated approximately $1.4 billion. In particular, the holders of the preferred shares of Equity Issuer are entitled to receive preferential distributions with respect to $377.5 million of residual interest investments it holds. Accordingly, a portion of the cash flow from our investments, particularly certain retained interests, will not be available for distribution on our common shares. Likewise if we pay a common dividend in future periods: · holders of SCUs issued by our Centerline Capital Company LLC (“CCC”) subsidiary are entitled to receive preferential distributions with respect to the earnings of CCC and its subsidiaries; and · holders of SCIs issued by our Centerline Investors I LLC (“Centerline Investors”) subsidiary are entitled to receive preferential distributions with respect to the earnings of Centerline Investors. Additionally, we have issued preferred shares that rank senior to our common shares with respect to payment of dividends, and other distributions and liquidation. While most of these preferred shares are convertible into common shares, the preferences will exist at all times prior to any such conversion. Our earnings, therefore, may not be available for distribution to our common shareholders. We depend upon the services of our executive officers We and our subsidiaries depend upon the services of our executive officers and other individuals who comprise our executive management team. All decisions with respect to the management and control of our Company and our subsidiaries, subject to the supervision of our Board of Trustees (or the applicable subsidiary’s board), are currently made by these key officers. The departure or the loss of the services of any of these key officers or a large number of senior management personnel and other employees could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business effectively and our future results of operations. - 18 - - Our Board of Trustees can change our business policies unilaterally Our Board of Trustees may amend or revise our business plan and certain other policies without shareholder approval. Therefore, our shareholders have no control over changes in our policies, including our business policies with respect to acquisitions, financing, growth, debt, capitalization and distributions, which are determined by our Board of Trustees. There are possible adverse effects arising from shares available for future sale Subject to restrictions imposed by our debt agreements, our board of trustees is permitted to offer additional equity or debt securities of our Company and our subsidiaries in exchange for money, property or other consideration. Our ability to sell or exchange such securities will depend on conditions then prevailing in the relevant capital markets and our results of operations, financial condition, investment portfolio and business prospects. As long as the issuance is made in accordance with our trust agreement, the issuance of such additional securities would not be subject to the approval of our shareholders and could negatively affect the resale price of our shares. Shareholders would not have any preemptive rights in connection with the issuance of any additional securities we or our subsidiaries may offer and any of our equity offerings would cause dilution of a shareholder’s investment in us. As of December 31, 2008, 13.1 million common shares remained issuable in exchange for outstanding SCUs, 0.3 million common shares remained issuable in exchange for outstanding SCIs and we have granted restricted common shares of which 2.6 million were unvested at December 31, 2008. When these shares vest and/or convert, their sale in the public market could, and depending upon the number of involved, likely would, adversely affect prevailing market prices of our shares and our ability to raise additional capital through the equity markets. In addition, we have issued other series of shares that are convertible into common shares, including: · Convertible Community Reinvestment Act Preferred Shares; · Series A Convertible Community Reinvestment Act Preferred Shares; · 4.4% Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Community Reinvestment Act Preferred Shares; and · 11.0% Preferred Shares. As of December 31, 2008, these shares were convertible into an aggregate of 20.3 million common shares. In addition, as of December 31, 2008: · TRCLP and its owners indirectly held 10.2 million of the outstanding SCUs and 1.1 million common shares which, subject to some exceptions, are not subject to a lock-up agreement; · An affiliate of TRCLP also holds 10.8 million of our 11.0% Preferred Shares; and · Former executives of our Company held 1.9 million of the outstanding SCUs and the 0.3 million outstanding SCIs. These SCUs and SCIs are not subject to lock-up agreements and may be converted to common shares at any time. Lastly, under the terms of an agreement, a creditor has the option of converting amounts outstanding beginning in June 2009 into common shares of the Company. As of December 31, 2008, the amount outstanding was $28.4 million. The former owners of Centerline Affordable Housing Advisors and members of our management team have significant voting power on matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, and their interests may be in conflict with the interests of our other shareholders In connection with our acquisition of CAHA in 2003, we issued to each of its selling principals one special preferred voting share for each SCU they received. Our special preferred voting shares have no economic interest, but entitle each holder to one vote per special preferred voting share on all matters subject to a vote of the holders of our common shares. The selling principals of CAHA who received special preferred voting shares include Marc D. Schnitzer, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and a subsidiary of Related Companies, L.P. (“TRCLP”), which is controlled by Stephen M. Ross, the chairman of our Board of Trustees. Mr. Schnitzer has also received share grants from the Company that are entitled to vote during the vesting periods, as have other members of our executive management team. An affiliate of TRCLP also holds most of the 11.0% Preferred Shares, which are entitled to vote as if they were converted to common shares. As a result of the special preferred voting share issuance, additional common shares directly or indirectly owned by them, share grants we have made and the 11.0% Preferred Shares, members of our executive management team and Mr. Ross in the aggregate directly or indirectly owned voting shares representing approximately 33.0% of our voting power as of December 31, 2008. As such, if they vote as a block, such shareholders will have significant voting power on all matters submitted to a vote of our common shareholders. - 19 - - Also, because Mr. Schnitzer and Mr. Ross serve as our managing trustees, there are ongoing conflicts of interest when we are required to determine whether or not to take actions to enforce our rights under the various agreements entered into in connection with the CAHA acquisition. While any material decisions involving these persons are subject to the vote of a majority of our independent trustees, such decisions may create conflicts between us and these persons. Similarly, as TRCLP is the developer of several properties in which we or the funds we manage have debt or equity investments, there are ongoing conflicts of interest when we are required to determine whether to take actions to enforce our rights under the agreements governing those relationships. As discussed in Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements, the funds we manage have recorded impairment charges associated with certain properties managed by TRCLP or its affiliates and as a result, we have been in active negotiations with TRCLP regarding such properties. In addition, we have some obligations to the former owners of CAHA which will require us to make choices as to how we operate our business and which may affect those obligations. For example, we have guaranteed the payment to all holders of the SCUs of all but $5.0 million of the distributions they would otherwise be entitled to receive from CCC. In addition, we have agreed to share cash flow from investment funds so that we and certain of these former owners can receive payment of deferred fees. Further, TRCLP and its affiliates currently engage in businesses which compete with us. The non-competition covenants contained in a future relations agreement entered into by TRCLP and its affiliates in connection with our acquisition of CAHA prohibit TRCLP and its affiliates from competing with any business currently engaged in by us other than in specified areas, including: · providing credit intermediation on debt products secured by “80/20” multifamily housing properties; and · providing mezzanine financing to multifamily housing properties other than so-called “tax credit properties.” There can be no assurance that we and TRCLP and its affiliates will not compete for similar products and opportunities in these areas in the future. No assurance can be given that our shareholders will be entitled to the same limitation on personal liability as stockholders of private corporations for profit We are governed by the laws of the State of Delaware. Under our trust agreement and the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, as amended (“Delaware Act”), our shareholders will be entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. In general, stockholders of Delaware corporations are not personally liable for the payment of corporate debts and obligations, and are liable only to the extent of their investment in the Delaware corporation. However, a shareholder may be obligated to make certain payments provided for in our trust agreement and bylaws. The properties securing our investments are dispersed in numerous states and the District of Columbia. In jurisdictions which have not adopted legislative provisions regarding statutory trusts similar to those of the Delaware Act, questions exist as to whether such jurisdictions would recognize a statutory trust, absent a state statute, and whether a court in such jurisdiction would recognize the Delaware Act as controlling. If not, a court in such jurisdiction could hold that our shareholders are not entitled to the limitation of liability set forth in our trust agreement and the Delaware Act and, as a result, are personally liable for our debts and obligations. Our anti-takeover provisions may discourage third-party proposals Certain provisions of our trust agreement may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our Company. This could inhibit a change in control of our Company under circumstances that could give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over then-prevailing market prices. Such provisions include the following: Additional Classes and Series of Shares Our trust agreement permits our Board of Trustees to issue additional classes or series of beneficial interests and to establish the preferences and rights of any such securities. Thus, our Board of Trustees could authorize the issuance of beneficial interests with terms and conditions which could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction. Staggered Board Our Board of Trustees is divided into three classes of managing trustees. The terms of the first, second and third classes will expire in 2011, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Managing trustees for each class will be chosen for a three-year term upon the expiration of the current class’ term. The use of a staggered board makes it more difficult for a third-party to acquire control over us. - 20 - - If we had to register under the Investment Company Act, there could be negative consequences to our investment strategy Neither we nor our subsidiaries are registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”) and we may not be able to conduct our activities as we currently do if we were required to so register. At all times, we intend to conduct our activities, and those of our subsidiaries, so as not to become regulated as an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act. Even if we are not an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we could be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act if a subsidiary of ours were deemed to be an investment company. There are a number of possible exemptions from registration under the Investment Company Act that we believe apply to us and our subsidiaries and which we believe make it possible for us not to be subject to registration under the Investment Company Act. For example, the Investment Company Act exempts entities that are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate,” which we refer to as “qualifying interests.” Under current interpretations by the SEC staff, one of the ways in which our subsidiaries can qualify for this exemption is to maintain at least 55% of their assets directly in qualifying interests and the balance in real estate-type interests. We believe our subsidiaries can rely on this exemption or another exemption from registration. The requirement that our subsidiaries maintain 55% of their assets in qualifying interests (or satisfy another exemption from registration) may inhibit our ability to acquire certain kinds of assets or to securitize additional interests in the future. If any of our subsidiaries fail to qualify for exemption from registration as an investment company and we, in turn, are required to register as an investment company, our ability to maintain our financing strategies would be substantially reduced, and we would be unable to conduct our business as described herein. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 