Item 1A. Risk Factors We may not have adequate financial resources to execute our business plan. We have historically operated at a loss and have not generated sufficient cash from operating activities to cover our operating and other cash expenses. While we have been able to historically finance our operating losses through borrowings or from the issuance of additional equity, we currently have no plans to borrow additional funds or to issue additional equity securities for this purpose. At March 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents of $7.91 million and $5.87 million, respectively. While we believe that existing sources of liquidity are sufficient to meet expected cash needs through 2007, we will need to increase our revenues or further reduce our operating expenses in order to be assured of meeting our liquidity needs on a long-term basis. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our revenues or further reduce our expenses and, accordingly, we may not have sufficient sources of liquidity to continue the operations of the Company indefinitely. We have a history of operating losses and may incur losses in the future. We have experienced annual losses from continuing operations since inception of our operations. Our losses from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $2.96 million, $4.98 million, and $13.75 million, respectively. These losses have been due principally to the high levels of research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses that we have incurred in order to develop and market our products, the fixed nature of our manufacturing costs, restructuring charges and impairment charges. In addition, markets for our products and services have developed more slowly than expected in many cases and may continue to do so. As a result, we may incur operating losses in the future. Markets for our products and services may continue to develop slowly. There are many factors that affect the market demand for our products and services that we cannot control. Demand for our WAVE System is affected by the needs and budgetary resources of research institutions, universities, hospitals and others who use the WAVE System for genetic-variation research. The WAVE System represents a significant expenditure by these types of customers and often requires a long sales cycle. If revenues from the sales of our products and services continue at current levels, we may need to take steps to further reduce operating expenses or raise additional working capital. We cannot assure you that sales will increase or that we will be able to reduce operating expenses or raise additional working capital. Similarly, the sales cycle for the OEM products that we sell can also be a long sales cycle. 7 Table of Contents Sales of our Discovery Services have been variable. Sales of discovery services have varied significantly due in large part to the fact that approximately 82% and 90% of discovery services sales in 2004 and 2005, respectively, were realized from orders from a single large pharmaceutical company. Sales to this customer were governed by a non-binding master services agreement dated August 22, 2002. Accordingly, the amount of sales to this customer is subject to change. In 2006, we did not sell any discovery services to this customer. The sale of our products and business operations in international markets subjects us to additional risks. During the past several years, international sales have represented more than half of our total net sales. As a result, a major portion of our revenues and expenses are subject to risks associated with international sales and operations. These risks include: Ÿ payment cycles in foreign markets are typically longer than in the U.S., and capital spending budgets for research agencies can vary over time with foreign governments; Ÿ changes in foreign currency exchange rates can make our products more costly and operating expenses higher in local currencies since our foreign sales and operating expenses are typically paid for in U.S. Dollars, British Pounds or the Euro; and Ÿ the potential for changes in U.S. and foreign laws or regulations that result in additional import or export restrictions, higher tariffs or other taxes, more burdensome licensing requirements or similar impediments to our ability to sell products and services profitably in these markets. Our WAVE System includes hardware components and instrumentation manufactured by a single supplier and if we are no longer able to obtain these components and instrumentation our ability to manufacture our products could be impaired. We rely on a single supplier, Hitachi High Technologies America, to provide the basic instrument used in our WAVE Systems. While other suppliers of instrumentation and computer hardware are available, we believe that our arrangement with Hitachi offers strategic advantages. Hitachi is replacing its current instrument line with a new instrument line. While we presently plan to convert our technology and applications to this new instrument line, such conversion may not be successful and, therefore, we may incur additional costs for the custom manufacturing of the current instrument line. If we were required to seek alternative sources of supply, it could be time consuming or expensive or require significant and costly modification of our WAVE System. Also, if we were unable to obtain instruments from Hitachi in sufficient quantities or in a timely manner, our ability to manufacture our products could be impaired, which could limit our future revenues. We may not have adequate personnel to execute our business plan. In order to reduce our operating costs, we have reduced the number of employees in all area of the business. In addition, we may lose other key management, scientific, technical, sales and manufacturing personnel from time to time. It may be very difficult to replace personnel if they are needed in the future, and the loss of key personnel could harm our business and operating results. We cannot assure you that our employee reductions will not impair our ability to continue to develop new products and refine existing products in order to remain competitive. In addition, these reductions could prevent us from successfully marketing our products and developing our customer base. 8 Table of Contents Our markets are very competitive. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we do and/or may enjoy other competitive advantages. This may allow them to more effectively market their products to our customers or potential customers, to develop products that make our products obsolete or to produce and sell products less expensively than us. As a result of these competitive factors, demand for and pricing of our products and services could be negatively affected. Our patents may not protect us from others using our technology that could harm our business and competitive position. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop similar or alternative products or technology, duplicate any of our products, or, if patents are issued to us, design around the patented products developed by us. Our patents or licenses could be challenged by litigation and, if the outcome of such litigation were adverse to us, our competitors could be free to use our technology. We may not be able to obtain additional patents for our technology, or if we are able to do so, patents may not provide us with substantial protection or be commercially beneficial. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in litigation if we are required to defend ourselves in patent suits brought by third parties or if we initiate such suits. We cannot be certain that other measures taken to protect our intellectual property will be effective. We rely upon trade secret protection, copyright and trademark laws, non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions for some of our confidential and proprietary information that is not subject matter for which patent protection is being sought. Such measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. If such measures do not protect our rights, third parties could use our technology and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. We are dependent upon our licensed technologies and may need to obtain additional licenses in the future to offer our products and remain competitive. We have licensed key components of our technologies from third parties. If these agreements were to terminate prematurely due to our breach of the terms of these licenses or we otherwise fail to maintain our rights to such technology, we may lose the right to manufacture or sell a substantial portion of our products. In addition, we may need to obtain licenses to additional technologies in the future in order to keep our products competitive. If we fail to license or otherwise acquire necessary technologies, we may not be able to develop new products that we need to remain competitive. The protection of intellectual property in foreign countries is uncertain. A significant percentage of our sales are to customers located outside the U.S. The patent and other intellectual property laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. We may need to bring proceedings to defend our patent rights or to determine the validity of our competitors’ foreign patents. These proceedings could result in substantial cost and diversion of our efforts. Finally, some of our patent protection in the U.S. is not available to us in foreign countries due to the laws of those countries. 9 Table of Contents Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. There are a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications submitted for technologies in, or related to, our area of business. As a result, any application or exploitation of our technology could infringe patents or proprietary rights of others and any licenses that we might need as a result of such infringement might not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. This may lead others to assert patent infringement or other intellectual property claims against us. Our failure to comply with any applicable government regulations or otherwise respond to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous chemicals that we use may adversely affect our results of operations. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. We are subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we could be required to pay penalties or be held liable for any damages that result and this liability could exceed our financial resources. We cannot assure you that accidental contamination or injury will not occur. Any such accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities and operations, resulting in delays and increased costs. The price for our common stock is volatile and may drop. The trading price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly over recent years. The volatility in the price of our stock is attributable to a number of factors, not all of which relate to our operating results and financial position. The delisting of our stock from the NASDAQ may negatively affect the volume of shares traded and the price for our stock. Continued volatility in the market price for our stock should be expected and we cannot assure you that the price of our stock will not decrease in the future. Fluctuations or further declines in the price of our stock may affect our ability to sell shares of our stock and to raise capital through future equity financing. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock”, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” under the rules of the SEC. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 3a51-1 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock”, for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 requires: · that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and · that the broker or dealer receives from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and 10 Table of Contents · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the "penny stock" rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. We may issue a substantial amount of our common stock to holders of options and warrants and this could reduce the market price for our stock. At December 31, 2006, we had obligations to issue 13,530,241 shares of common stock including outstanding stock options representing 5,467,664 shares and warrants representing 8,062,577 shares. The issuance of these additional shares of common stock may be dilutive to our current shareholders and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is thinly traded and a large percentage of our shares are held by a small group of unrelated, institutional owners. At March 30, 2007, we had 49,189,672 shares of common stock outstanding. Fewer than ten unrelated, institutional holders own more than 50% of these shares The sale of significant shares into the public market has potential to cause significant downward pressure on the price of our common stock. This is particularly the case if the shares being placed into the market exceed the market’s ability to absorb the stock. Such an event could place further downward pressure on the price of our common stock. This presents an opportunity for short sellers to contribute to the further decline of our stock price. If there are significant short sales of our stock, the price decline that would result from this activity will cause the share price to decline more so, which, in turn, may cause long holders of the stock to sell their shares thereby contributing to sales of stock in the market. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 Table of Contents 