ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS IN EVALUATING US, CAREFUL CONSIDERATION SHOULD BE GIVEN TO THE RISK FACTORS SET FORTH BELOW, AS WELL AS THE OTHER INFORMATION SET FORTH IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K. ALTHOUGH THESE RISK FACTORS ARE MANY, THESE FACTORS SHOULD NOT BE REGARDED AS CONSTITUTING THE ONLY RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESSES. EACH OF THESE RISK FACTORS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS AND/OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. IN ADDITION TO THE FOLLOWING DISCLOSURES, PLEASE REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT INCLUDING THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES. UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, ALL RISK FACTORS LISTED BELOW SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ATTRIBUTABLE TO ALL OUR OPERATIONS INCLUDING ALL OPERATIONS CLASSIFIED AS DISCONTINUED. RISKS RELATED TO OUR EMERGENCE FROM BANKRUPTCY Our actual financial results may vary significantly from the projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court In connection with the Plan of Reorganization process, we were required to prepare projected financial information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of the Plan of Reorganization and our ability to continue operations upon emergence from bankruptcy. We filed projected financial information with the Bankruptcy Court most recently on October 22, 2007 and furnished it to the SEC, and as part of the disclosure statement approved by the Bankruptcy Court. The projections reflect numerous assumptions concerning anticipated future performance and prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and continue to be beyond our control and that may not materialize. Projections are inherently subject to uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks. Our actual results will vary from those contemplated by the projections for a variety of reasons, including the fact that given our recent emergence from bankruptcy we have adopted the provisions of AICPA SOP 90-7, Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code (“SOP 90-7”), regarding fresh-start accounting. As indicated in the disclosure statement, the projections applied fresh-start accounting provisions. However, these projections were limited by the information available to us as of the date of the preparation of the projections. Therefore variations from the projections may be material. The projections have not been incorporated by reference into this report and neither these projections nor any version of the disclosure statement should be considered or relied upon in connection with the purchase of our Common Stock. Because our consolidated financial statements reflect fresh-start accounting adjustments made upon emergence from bankruptcy, and because of the effects of the transactions that became effective pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization, financial information in our future financial statements will not be comparable to our financial information from prior periods Upon our emergence from Chapter 11, we adopted fresh-start accounting in accordance with SOP 90-7, pursuant to which our reorganization value, which represents the fair value of the entity before considering liabilities and approximates the amount a willing buyer would pay for the assets of the entity immediately after the reorganization, has been allocated to the fair value of assets in conformity with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business Combinations, using the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. We stated liabilities, other than deferred taxes, at a present value of amounts expected to be paid. The amount remaining after allocation of the reorganization value to the fair value of identified tangible and intangible assets is reflected as goodwill, which is subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. In addition, under fresh-start accounting the accumulated deficit has been eliminated. In addition to fresh-start accounting, our consolidated financial statements reflect all effects of the transactions contemplated by the Plan of Reorganization. Thus, our future statements of financial position and statements of operations data will not be comparable in many respects to our consolidated statements of financial position and consolidated statements of operations data for periods prior to our adoption of fresh-start accounting and prior to accounting for the effects of the reorganization. The lack of comparable historical information may discourage investors from purchasing our Common Stock. 11 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY Continued Extreme Disruption in Global Financial Markets and Sustained Weakening in our Markets Could Significantly Impact our Results of Operations, Liquidity and Long Term Anticipated Growth Rate As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption recently, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that include severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. The current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products, our ability to procure necessary raw materials from suppliers, our ability to secure credit from our suppliers at terms granted to us historically and our ability to collect from our customers amounts due on trade receivables at terms previously experienced by us. Our global business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending that impact the construction, home furnishings, automotive, rubber chemicals and aviation and transportation markets. The weakening of these markets, if not temporary, could significantly impact our results of operations, our liquidity, our long-term anticipated growth rate and/or our ability to complete the sale of our Integrated Nylon business. Further, stemming from our recent emergence from bankruptcy, the carrying amount of our goodwill and intangible assets was established at fair value as of February 28, 2008 and therefore is more susceptible to impairment if business operation results and/or macroeconomic conditions deteriorate. Impairment charges, if any, could be material to our results of operations. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries. However, if macroeconomic conditions continue to worsen, it is possible these factors could result in a decline in our future profitability and cash from operating activities. Our Operations Are Restricted by Our Credit Facilities and Could be Impacted by the Failure of Our Lenders to Perform Our credit facilities include a number of significant restrictive covenants. These covenants could impair our financing and operational flexibility and make it difficult for us to react to market conditions and satisfy our ongoing capital needs and unanticipated cash requirements. Specifically, such covenants restrict our ability and, if applicable, the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • make certain investments and acquisitions; • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; • limit dividends or other payments by us and certain of our subsidiaries; • use assets as security in other transactions; • pay dividends on our common stock or repurchase our equity interests; • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; • guarantee the debts of others; • enter into new lines of business; • make capital expenditures; • prepay, redeem or exchange our debt; • form any joint ventures or subsidiary investments. In addition, our current credit facilities require us to satisfy certain financial covenants. These financial covenants and tests could limit our ability to react to market conditions or satisfy extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing and operations. 12 Table of Contents Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we would be required to obtain waivers from our lenders to maintain compliance with our debt obligations. If we are unable to obtain any necessary waivers and the debt is accelerated, a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future operating performance would result. Our current revolving credit facility is a syndicated credit agreement in which each lender is severally liable for only its agreed part of the loan commitments. Although all lenders have performed their individual obligations under the terms of the revolving credit agreement to date, there can be no assurance that this will continue given the current turmoil in the financial services industry. One or more lender’s failure to perform on their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to fund its ongoing operations and other commitments. The Prices of Raw Materials and Energy We Require to Produce Our Products Are Volatile and Could Significantly Impact Our Operating Margins We purchase large amounts of commodity raw materials, including natural gas, propylene, cyclohexane and benzene. Temporary shortages or over supply of these raw materials and energy sources may occasionally occur. We typically purchase major requirements for key raw materials under medium-term contracts. Pricing under these contracts may fluctuate as a result of unscheduled plant interruptions, United States and worldwide market conditions and government regulation. Raw materials and energy costs reached all time high price levels during the third quarter of 2008, but during the fourth quarter of 2008 an unprecedented decline in prices to near historical lows were driven by the extreme disruption in the global demand profile. Volatile raw material and energy costs could significantly impact our operating margins in the future. See also Business — Raw Materials and Energy Resources. Problems Encountered in Operating Our Production Facilities Could Adversely Impact Our Business Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unscheduled down time and environmental hazards. From time to time in the past, we have had incidents that have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted our manufacturing, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of our production facilities. In addition, some of our products involve the manufacture or handling of a variety of reactive, explosive and flammable materials. Use of these products by our employees, customers and contractors could result in liability to us if an explosion, fire, spill or other accident were to occur. We Have and Will Continue to Have Significant Indebtedness We have and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our significant indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • We will have to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow to making interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. • Certain levels of indebtedness may make us less attractive to potential acquirors or acquisition targets. • Certain levels of indebtedness may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions, and make us more vulnerable to downturns in general economic conditions as compared to competitors that may be less leveraged. • As described in more detail above, the documents providing for our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that may limit our financing and operational flexibility. Furthermore, our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations will depend, among other things, upon fluctuations in interest rates, our future operating performance and ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. These factors depend partly on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. We have hedged a significant portion of our variable rate debt with derivative instruments. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our debt service obligations as well as fund necessary capital expenditures, pension funding obligations and investments in research and development. In addition, if we need to refinance our debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets or equity, we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Finally, counterparties to our derivative instruments may not be able to honor their contractual obligations. 13 Table of Contents Turnover in the Senior Management Team and Losses of Other Key Personnel Could Have a Significant Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations The services of our senior management team, as well as other key personnel, will be critical to the successful implementation of our business strategies going forward. If the terms of incentive compensation programs are not adequate, we may have difficulty retaining current senior management and other key personnel and be unable to hire qualified personnel to fill any resulting vacancies, which could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. We Operate in a Highly Competitive Industry That Includes Competitors with Greater Resources Than Ours The markets in which we compete are highly competitive. Competition in these markets is based on a number of factors, such as price, product, quality and service. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technological and other resources and may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than us. Consolidation of our competitors or customers may also adversely affect our businesses. Furthermore, global competition and customer demands for efficiency will continue to make price increases difficult. We Operate in Cyclical Business Segments and Our Financial Results Are Likely to Fluctuate Accordingly We operate in cyclical business segments. Specifically, a substantial portion of our sales are to customers involved, directly or indirectly, in the housing and automotive industries, both of which are, by their nature, cyclical industries. A downturn in either or both of these industries would and has resulted in lower demand for our products among customers involved in those industries and a reduced ability to pass on cost increases to these customers. If We Are Unable to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights, Our Sales and Financial Performance Could Be Adversely Affected We own a large number of patents that relate to a wide variety of products and processes and have a substantial number of patent applications pending. We own a considerable number of established trademarks in many countries under which we market our products. These patents and trademarks in the aggregate are of material importance to the operations of our businesses. Our performance may depend in part on our ability to establish, protect and enforce such intellectual property and to defend against any claims of infringement, which could involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions and uncertainties. In the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. If litigation that we initiate is unsuccessful, we may not be able to protect the value of some of our intellectual property. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties or license fees to continue to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using or we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable period of time. If we are unable to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, we may be forced to cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, or to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and may be time-consuming. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of some of our resources. Our intellectual property rights may not have the value that we believe them to have, which could result in a competitive disadvantage or adversely affect our business and financial performance. See also Business — Intellectual Property. 14 Table of Contents Legal Proceedings including proceedings related to environmental and other regulatory obligations may have a materially negative impact on our future results of operations We have been, and may in the future be, subject to various lawsuits and other legal proceedings, including proceedings related to our environmental and other regulatory obligations. As a manufacturer of chemical-based materials, we may become subject to litigation alleging personal injury, or product liability associated with our products and businesses. Adverse judgments or rulings against us in these legal proceedings, or the filing of additional environmental or other damage claims against us, may have a materially negative impact on our future results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Additionally, we may incur significant administrative and legal costs associated with defending or settling litigation. The Applicability of Numerous Environmental Laws to Our Manufacturing Facilities Could Cause Us to Incur Material Costs and Liabilities We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, safety and health laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to land and water and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and the distribution of chemical substances. We are also required to maintain various environmental permits and licenses, many of which require periodic modification and renewal and related governmental approvals. Our operations entail the risk of violations of these laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. In addition, these requirements and their enforcement may become more stringent in the future. Non-compliance with such future requirements could subject us to material liabilities, such as government fines, third-party lawsuits or the suspension of non-compliant operations. Future requirements may also result in our making significant site or operational modifications at substantial cost. Future regulatory and enforcement developments could also restrict or eliminate our ability to continue to manufacture certain products or could require us to make modifications to our products. At any given time, we are involved in litigation, administrative proceedings and investigations of various types in a number of jurisdictions involving potential environmental liabilities, including clean-up costs associated with contaminated sites, natural resource damages, property damages and personal injury. For example, natural resource trustees have asserted certain natural resource damage claims against us principally relating to our Anniston and Sauget facilities, the liability for which we share with Monsanto pursuant to our Plan of Reorganization. The natural resource trustees have estimated the value of the natural resource damages at between $366 million and $604 million; we dispute these estimates and have received estimates from third party experts of $14 million to $51 million for such asserted damages. These damage estimates are preliminary and subject to change and do not take into account reductions to damages possible through projects to restore natural resources. We may be required to spend substantial sums to defend or settle these and other actions, to pay any fines levied against us or satisfy any judgments or other rulings rendered against us and such sums may be material. Under certain environmental laws, we can be held strictly liable for hazardous substance contamination at real property we have owned, operated or used as a disposal site or for natural resource damages associated with such contamination. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. One liable party can be held responsible for all costs at a site, regardless of fault, percentage of contribution to the site or the legality of the original disposal. As described in more detail above and in the following paragraph, we could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, natural resources damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims as a result of hazardous substance contamination. We have made and will continue to make substantial expenditures for environmental and regulatory compliance and remediation projects. The substantial amounts that we may be required to spend on environmental capital projects and programs could cause substantial cash outlays and, accordingly, could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity and profitability or limit our financial and operating flexibility. In addition, although we believe that we have correctly budgeted and, to the extent appropriate under applicable accounting principles, reserved for these amounts, factors beyond our control may render these budgeted and reserved amounts inadequate. These factors include changing governmental policies and regulations; the commencement of new governmental proceedings or third party litigation regarding environmental remediation; new releases of hazardous substances that result in personal injury, property damage or harm to the environment; and the discovery of unknown conditions of contamination or unforeseen problems encountered in the environmental remediation programs. 15 Table of Contents Our recent Chapter 11 case was caused, in significant part, by an accumulation of legacy liabilities, including, among others, “legacy environmental liability” arising from historical operations of Pharmacia prior to the Solutia spin-off. In the course of the Chapter 11 case we achieved a substantial reallocation of the risk from these legacy liabilities. In particular, pursuant to the settlement agreement entered into between Monsanto and us, Monsanto agreed to be financially responsible for remediation costs and other environmental liabilities for sites owned, operated or used by Pharmacia but never owned, operated or used by us after the Solutia spin-off; to share liabilities with respect to offsite areas at the Sauget and Anniston plant sites; and to be financially responsible for personal injury and property damage claims associated with exposures to hazardous substances arising from legacy Pharmacia operations (so-called “Legacy Toxic Tort Claims”). If Monsanto and/or Pharmacia fail to honor their respective obligation with respect to such remediation costs or Legacy Toxic Tort Claims, we could become responsible for some or all of such liabilities except for the remediation costs and other environmental liabilities for sites owned, operated or used by Pharmacia but never owned, operated or used by us for which Solutia received a discharge under the Plan which liabilities could be material. See also Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Environmental Matters. We Face Currency and Other Risks Associated with International Sales We generate significant revenue from export sales, as well as from operations conducted outside the United States. Operations outside the United States expose us to risks including fluctuations in currency values, trade restrictions, tariff and trade regulations, U.S. export controls, foreign tax laws, shipping delays, and economic and political instability. For example, violations of U.S. export controls could result in fines and the suspension or loss of export privileges which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions. The functional currency of each of our non-U.S. operations is generally the local currency. Exchange rates between some of these currencies and U.S. dollars have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the future. It is possible that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates will have a negative effect on our results of operations. Many of Our Products and Manufacturing Processes Are Subject to Technological Change and Our Business Will Suffer if We Fail to Keep Pace Many of the markets in which our products (and their corresponding manufacturing processes) compete are subject to technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. We must continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved capabilities to continue to be a market leader. We must also continue to make improvements in our manufacturing processes and productivity to maintain our competitive position. When we invest in new technologies, processes or production facilities, we will face risks related to construction delays, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical difficulties related to start-up. Our inability to anticipate, respond to, capitalize on or utilize changing technologies could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in any given period. Significant Payments May Be Required to Maintain the Funding of Our Domestic Qualified Pension Plan We maintain a qualified pension plan under which certain of our employees and retirees are entitled to receive benefits. Although we have frozen future benefit accruals under our U.S. pension plan, significant liabilities still remain. In order to fund the pension plan, we made significant contributions to the pension plan in 2008 amounting to approximately $57 million and will have to fund more going forward. We may be unable to obtain financing to make these pension plan contributions. In addition, even if financing for these contributions is obtained, the funding obligations and the carrying costs of debt incurred to fund the obligations could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. Labor Disruptions With the Unionized Portion Of Our Workforce Could Have a Negative Effect While we believe that our relations with our employees are good, we may not be able to negotiate these or other collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. A prolonged labor dispute, which could include a work stoppage, could impact our ability to satisfy our customers’ requirements and negatively affect our financial condition. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 