Item 1A: Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Sources of Financing and Liquidity Our significant indebtedness could materially adversely affect our financial health, limit our ability to finance future acquisitions and capital expenditures and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. As of December 31, 2011, our total outstanding indebtedness was approximately $1.4 billion, which includes floor plan notes payable, long-term debt and short-term debt. We have $175.0 million of maximum borrowing availability under a syndicated revolving credit facility (the “2011 Revolving Credit Facility”), up to $500.0 million in maximum borrowing availability for new vehicle inventory floor plan financing and up to $80.0 million in maximum borrowing availability for used vehicle 11 Table of Contents inventory floor plan financing (the “2011 Floor Plan Facilities”). We refer to the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility and 2011 Floor Plan Facilities collectively as our “2011 Credit Facilities.” Based on balances as of December 31, 2011, we had $129.3 million available for additional borrowings under the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility based on the borrowing base calculation, which is affected by numerous factors including eligible asset balances and the market value of certain additional collateral. We are able to borrow under our 2011 Revolving Credit Facility only if, at the time of the borrowing, we have met all representations and warranties and are in compliance with all financial and other covenants contained therein. We also have capacity to finance new and used vehicle inventory purchases under bilateral floor plan agreements with various manufacturer-affiliated finance companies and other lending institutions (the “Silo Floor Plan Facilities”) as well as our 2011 Floor Plan Facilities. In addition, the indentures relating to our 9.0% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 (the “9.0% Notes”), 5.0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2029 which are redeemable by us and which may be put to us by the holders after October 1, 2014 under certain circumstances (the “5.0% Convertible Notes”) and our other debt instruments allow us to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, as long as we comply with the terms thereunder. In addition, the majority of our dealership properties are leased under long-term operating lease arrangements that commonly have initial terms of fifteen to twenty years with renewal options ranging from five to ten years. These operating leases require compliance with financial and operating covenants similar to those under our 2011 Credit Facilities, and monthly payments of rent that may fluctuate based on interest rates and local consumer price indices. The total future minimum lease payments related to these operating leases and certain equipment leases are significant and are disclosed in Note 12, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. An acceleration of our obligation to repay all or a substantial portion of our outstanding indebtedness or lease obligations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our 2011 Credit Facilities, the indentures governing our 9.0% Notes and many of our facility operating leases contain numerous financial and operating covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the applicable agreement or indenture. If a default were to occur, we may be unable to adequately finance our operations and the value of our common stock would be materially adversely affected because of acceleration and cross default provisions. In addition, a default under one agreement or indenture could result in a default and acceleration of our repayment obligations under the other agreements or indentures, including the indentures governing our outstanding 9.0% Notes and 5.0% Convertible Notes under the cross default provisions in those agreements or indentures. If a cross default were to occur, we may not be able to pay our debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. Even if new financing were available, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. As a result of this risk, we could be forced to take actions that we otherwise would not take, or not take actions that we otherwise might take, in order to comply with the covenants in these agreements and indentures. Our ability to make interest and principal payments when due to holders of our debt securities depends upon our future performance. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and other expenses will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, domestic and foreign economic conditions, the regulatory environment and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt as it becomes due, we may be required to refinance the debt, sell assets or sell shares of our common stock on terms that we do not find attractive. Further, our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to the 2011 Credit Facilities and the indentures pertaining to our outstanding notes could result in a default under these agreements that would prevent us from borrowing under the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We have financed the purchase of certain dealership properties with mortgage notes that require balloon payments at the end of the notes’ terms. Many of our mortgage notes’ principal and interest payments are based on an amortization period longer than the actual terms (maturity dates) of the notes. As a result, we will be required to repay or refinance the remaining principal balances at the notes’ maturity dates (balloon payments). The maturity dates of these notes range from 2013 to 2018. The amounts to be refinanced at the maturity dates could be significant. We may not have sufficient liquidity to make such payments at the notes’ maturity dates. In the event we do have sufficient liquidity to completely repay the remaining principal balances at maturity, we may not be able to refinance the notes at interest rates that are acceptable to us, or depending on market conditions, refinance the notes at all. Our inability to repay or refinance these notes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make interest and principal payments when due to holders of our debt securities depends upon the receipt of sufficient funds from our subsidiaries. Substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by our subsidiaries and substantially all of our consolidated cash flow and net income are generated by our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our cash flow and ability to service debt depends to a substantial degree on the results of operations of our subsidiaries and upon the ability of our subsidiaries to provide us with cash. We may receive cash from our subsidiaries in the form of dividends, loans or distributions. We may use this cash to service our debt obligations or for working capital. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to distribute cash to us or to make funds available to service debt. In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make loans to us is subject to minimum net capital requirements under manufacturer franchise and dealer agreements and laws of the state in which a subsidiary is organized and depends to a significant degree on the results of operations of our subsidiaries and other business considerations. Our 2011 Revolving Credit Facility contains restrictive provisions that may reduce our borrowing availability for the purpose of making principal payments when due to holders of our debt securities. The maturity date of the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility may in certain circumstances be accelerated (the “Springing Maturity Date”) if the share price of our common stock falls below a certain level or if we do not maintain certain liquidity levels during enumerated periods of time prior to the maturity date of certain debt securities with an outstanding balance in excess of $35.0 million. In addition, availability of the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility may be curtailed during enumerated periods related to any Springing Maturity Date. To the extent that availability under our 2011 Revolving Credit Facility is not available for the purposes of making interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient liquidity to make such payments when due to holders of our debt securities. The conversion of the 5.0% Convertible Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and results of operations. If the conversion features of the 5.0% Convertible Notes are triggered, holders of those notes will be entitled to convert their notes in accordance with the terms of the indenture governing those notes. We may be required to make cash payments to satisfy our conversion obligations. In the event we have the ability to, and choose to, settle the 5.0% Convertible Notes with cash payments in lieu of settlement with shares of common stock, the amount of these cash payments could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. In addition, even if the holders of the 5.0% Convertible Notes do not elect to convert their respective notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which could result in a material reduction of our net working capital and negatively affect our compliance with debt covenants, or could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We depend on the performance of sublessees to offset costs related to certain of our lease agreements. In most cases, when we sell a dealership, the buyer of the dealership will sublease the dealership property from us, but we are not released from the underlying lease obligation to the primary landlord. We rely on the sublease income from the buyer to offset the expense incurred related to our obligation to pay the primary landlord. We also rely on the buyer to maintain the property in accordance with the terms of the sublease (which in most cases mirror the terms of the lease we have with the primary landlord). Although we assess the financial condition of a buyer at the time we sell the dealership, and seek to obtain guarantees of the buyer’s sublease obligation from the stockholders or affiliates of the buyer, the financial condition of the buyer and/or the sublease guarantors may deteriorate over time. In the event the buyer does not perform under the terms of the sublease agreement (due to the buyer’s financial condition or other factors), we may not be able to recover amounts owed to us under the terms of the sublease agreement or the related guarantees. Our operating results, financial condition and cash flows may be materially adversely affected if sublessees do not perform their obligations under the terms of the sublease agreements. Our use of hedging transactions could limit our financial gains or result in financial losses. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in cash flow due to interest rate fluctuations, we have entered into, and in the future expect to enter into, derivative instruments (or hedging agreements). No hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2011, we had interest rate swap agreements to effectively convert a portion of our LIBOR-based variable rate debt to a fixed rate. See the heading “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” under Note 6, “Long-Term Debt,” to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. We intend to hedge as much of the interest rate risk as management determines is in our best interests given the cost of such hedging transactions. Our hedging transactions expose us to certain risks and financial losses, including, among other things: • counterparty credit risk; • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which we seek protection; • the duration of the amount of the hedge may not match the duration or amount of the related liability; • the value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting rules to reflect changes in fair-value. Downward adjustments, or “mark-to-market losses,” would reduce our stockholders’ equity; and • all of our hedging instruments contain terms and conditions with which we are required to meet. In the event those terms and conditions are not met, we may be required to settle the instruments prior to the instruments’ maturity with cash payments which could significantly affect our liquidity. A failure on our part to effectively hedge against interest rate changes may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to satisfy our debt obligations upon the occurrence of a change in control or a fundamental change. Upon the occurrence of a change in control or a fundamental change, as defined in our 9.0% Notes and 5.0% Convertible Notes, holders of these instruments will have the right to require us to purchase all or any part of such holders’ notes at a price equal to either 101% (in the case of the 9.0% Notes) or 100% (in the case of the 5.0% Convertible Notes) of principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. The events that constitute a change of control under these indentures may also constitute a default under our 2011 Credit Facilities. There can be no assurance that we would have sufficient resources available to satisfy all of our obligations under these debt instruments in the event of a change in control or fundamental change. In the event 14 Table of Contents we were unable to satisfy our obligations under the change in control or fundamental change control provisions, it could have an adverse material impact on us and our Class A and Class B common stock holders. Any future debt instruments that we may incur may contain similar provisions regarding repurchases in the event of a change in control or fundamental change triggering event. Although O. Bruton Smith, our chairman and chief executive officer, and his affiliates have previously assisted us with obtaining financing, we cannot assure you that he or they will be willing or able to do so in the future. Our obligations under the 2011 Credit Facilities are secured with a pledge of 5,000,000 shares of SMI common stock. These shares of SMI common stock are owned by Sonic Financial Corporation (“SFC”), an entity controlled by O. Bruton Smith. Presently, the $175.0 million borrowing limit of our 2011 Revolving Credit Facility is subject to a borrowing base calculation that is based, in part, on the value of the SMI shares pledged by SFC. Consequently, a withdrawal of this pledge by SFC or a significant decrease in the value of SMI common stock could reduce the amount we can borrow under the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility. Risks Related to Our Relationships with Vehicle Manufacturers Our operations may be adversely affected if one or more of our manufacturer franchise or dealer agreements is terminated or not renewed. Each of our dealerships operates under a separate franchise or dealer agreement with the applicable automobile manufacturer. Without a franchise or dealer agreement, we cannot obtain new vehicles from a manufacturer or advertise as an authorized factory service center. As a result, we are significantly dependent on our relationships with the manufacturers. Manufacturers exercise a great degree of control over the operations of our dealerships through the franchise and dealer agreements. The franchise and dealer agreements govern, among other things, our ability to purchase vehicles from the manufacturer and to sell vehicles to customers. Each of our franchise or dealer agreements provides for termination or non-renewal for a variety of causes, including certain changes in the financial condition of the dealerships and any unapproved change of ownership or management. Manufacturers may also have a right of first refusal if we seek to sell dealerships. Actions taken by manufacturers to exploit their superior bargaining position in negotiating the terms of franchise and dealer agreements or renewals of these agreements or otherwise could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We cannot guarantee that any of our existing franchise and dealer agreements will be renewed or that the terms and conditions of such renewals will be favorable to us. Our failure to meet a manufacturer’s customer satisfaction, financial and sales performance and facility requirements may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to acquire new dealerships. Many manufacturers attempt to measure customers’ satisfaction with their sales and warranty service experiences through manufacturer-determined CSI scores. The components of CSI vary from manufacturer to manufacturer and are modified periodically. Franchise and dealer agreements also may impose financial and sales performance standards. Under our agreements with certain manufacturers, a dealership’s CSI scores, sales and financial performance may be considered a factor in evaluating applications for additional dealership acquisitions. From time to time, some of our dealerships have had difficulty meeting various manufacturers’ CSI requirements or performance standards. We cannot assure you that our dealerships will be able to comply with these requirements in the future. A manufacturer may refuse to consent to an acquisition of one of its franchises if it determines our dealerships do not comply with its CSI requirements or performance standards, which could impair the execution of our acquisition strategy. In addition, we receive incentive payments from the manufacturers based, in part, on CSI scores, which could be materially adversely affected if our CSI scores decline. 15 Table of Contents In addition, a manufacturer may condition its allotment of vehicles, participation in bonus programs, or acquisition of additional franchises upon our compliance with its facility standards. This may put us in a competitive disadvantage with other competing dealerships and may ultimately result in our decision to sell a franchise when we believe it may be difficult to recover the cost of the required investment to reach the manufacturer’s facility standards. If state dealer laws are repealed or weakened, our dealerships will be more susceptible to termination, non-renewal or renegotiation of their franchise and dealer agreements. State dealer laws generally provide that a manufacturer may not terminate or refuse to renew a franchise or dealer agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with written notice setting forth good cause and stating the grounds for termination or non-renewal. Some state dealer laws allow dealers to file protests or petitions or attempt to comply with the manufacturer’s criteria within the notice period to avoid the termination or non-renewal. Though unsuccessful to date, manufacturers’ lobbying efforts may lead to the repeal or revision of state dealer laws. If dealer laws are repealed in the states in which we operate, manufacturers may be able to terminate our franchises without providing advance notice, an opportunity to cure or a showing of good cause. Without the protection of state dealer laws, it may also be more difficult for our dealerships to renew their franchise or dealer agreements upon expiration. In addition, these laws restrict the ability of automobile manufacturers to directly enter the retail market in the future. However, the ability of a manufacturer to grant additional franchises is based on several factors which are not within our control. If manufacturers grant new franchises in areas near or within our existing markets, this could significantly impact our revenues and/or profitability. Further, if manufacturers obtain the ability to directly retail vehicles and do so in our markets, such competition could have a material adverse effect on us. Our sales volume and profit margin on each sale may be materially adversely affected if manufacturers discontinue or change their incentive programs. Our dealerships depend on the manufacturers for certain sales incentives, warranties and other programs that are intended to promote and support dealership new vehicle sales. Manufacturers routinely modify their incentive programs in response to changing market conditions. Some of the key incentive programs include: • customer rebates or below market financing on new and used vehicles; • employee pricing; • dealer incentives on new vehicles; • manufacturer floor plan interest and advertising assistance; • warranties on new and used vehicles; and • sponsorship of certified pre-owned vehicle sales by authorized new vehicle dealers. Manufacturers frequently offer incentives to potential customers. A reduction or discontinuation of a manufacturer’s incentive programs may materially adversely impact vehicle demand and affect our profitability. Our sales volume may be materially adversely affected if manufacturer captives change their customer financing programs or are unable to provide floor plan financing. One of the primary finance sources used by consumers in connection with the purchase of a new or used vehicle is the manufacturer captive finance companies. These captive finance companies rely, to a certain extent, on the public debt markets to provide the capital necessary to support their financing programs. In addition, the captive finance companies will occasionally change their loan underwriting criteria to alter the risk profile of their loan portfolio. A limitation or reduction of available consumer financing for these or other reasons could affect consumers’ ability to purchase a vehicle, and thus, could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume. 16 Table of Contents Our parts and service sales volume and profitability are dependent on manufacturer warranty programs. Franchised automotive retailers perform factory authorized service work and sell original replacement parts on vehicles covered by warranties issued by the automotive manufacturer. Dealerships which perform work covered by a manufacturer warranty are reimbursed at rates established by the manufacturer. For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 16.3% of our parts and service revenue was for work covered by manufacturer warranties. To the extent a manufacturer reduces the labor rates or markup of replacement parts for such warranty work, our Fixed Operations sales volume and profitability could be adversely affected. Adverse conditions affecting one or more key manufacturers or lenders may negatively impact our profitability. Our business is dependent upon the products, services, and financing and incentive programs offered by major automobile manufacturers, and could be negatively impacted by any significant changes to these manufacturers’: • financial condition; • marketing; • vehicle design; • publicity concerning a particular manufacturer or vehicle model; • production capabilities; • management; • reputation; and • labor relations. Events such as labor strikes or other disruptions in production, including those caused by natural disasters, that may adversely affect a manufacturer may also adversely affect us. In particular, labor strikes at a manufacturer that continue for a substantial period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, the delivery of vehicles from manufacturers at a time later than scheduled, which may occur particularly during periods of new product introductions, could limit sales of those vehicles during those periods. This has been experienced at some of our dealerships from time to time. Adverse conditions affecting these and other important aspects of manufacturers’ operations and public relations may adversely affect our ability to sell their automobiles and, as a result, significantly and detrimentally affect our profitability. Our business could be materially adversely impacted by the bankruptcy of a major vehicle manufacturer or related lender. For example: • a manufacturer in bankruptcy could attempt to terminate all or certain of our franchises, in which case we may not receive adequate compensation for our franchises; • consumer demand for such manufacturer’s products could be materially adversely affected; • a lender in bankruptcy could attempt to terminate our floorplan financing and demand repayment of any amounts outstanding; • we may be unable to arrange financing for our customers for their vehicle purchases and leases through such lender, in which case we would be required to seek financing with alternate financing sources, which may be difficult to obtain on similar terms, if at all; • we may be unable to collect some or all of our significant receivables that are due from such manufacturer or lender, and we may be subject to preference claims relating to payments made by such manufacturer or lender prior to bankruptcy; and • such manufacturer may be relieved of its indemnification obligations with respect to product liability claims. 17 Table of Contents Additionally, any such bankruptcy may result in us being required to incur impairment charges with respect to the inventory, fixed assets and intangible assets related to certain dealerships, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to remain in compliance with the financial ratios contained in our debt agreements. Tens of billions of dollars of U.S. government support were provided to Chrysler, General Motors and Ally Financial (formerly known as GMAC), and we believe that this support mitigated the potential adverse impacts to us resulting from the Chrysler and General Motors bankruptcies. There can be no assurance that U.S. government support will be provided to the same extent or at all in the event of another bankruptcy of a major vehicle manufacturer or related lender. As a result, the potential adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations could be worse in a manufacturer or related lender bankruptcy that is not financially supported by the U.S. government. Manufacturer stock ownership restrictions may impair our ability to maintain or renew franchise or dealer agreements or issue additional equity. Some of our franchise and dealer agreements prohibit transfers of any ownership interests of a dealership and, in some cases, its parent, without prior approval of the applicable manufacturer. A number of manufacturers impose restrictions on the transferability of our Class A common stock and our ability to maintain franchises if a person acquires a significant percentage of the voting power of our common stock. Our existing franchise and dealer agreements could be terminated if a person or entity acquires a substantial ownership interest in us or acquires voting power above certain levels without the applicable manufacturer’s approval. Violations of these levels by an investor are generally outside of our control and may result in the termination or non-renewal of existing franchise or dealer agreements or impair our ability to negotiate new franchise or dealer agreements for dealerships we acquire in the future. In addition, if we cannot obtain any requisite approvals on a timely basis, we may not be able to issue additional equity or otherwise raise capital on terms acceptable to us. These restrictions may also prevent or deter a prospective acquirer from acquiring control of us. The current holders of our Class B common stock maintain voting control over us. However, we are unable to prevent our stockholders from transferring shares of our common stock, including transfers by holders of the Class B common stock. If such transfer results in a change in control, it could result in the termination or non-renewal of one or more of our existing franchise or dealer agreements, the triggering of provisions in our agreements with certain manufacturers requiring us to sell our dealerships franchised with such manufacturers and/or a default under our credit arrangements. We depend on manufacturers to supply us with sufficient numbers of popular and profitable new models. Manufacturers typically allocate their vehicles among dealerships based on the sales history of each dealership. Supplies of popular new vehicles may be limited by the applicable manufacturer’s production capabilities. Popular new vehicles that are in limited supply typically produce the highest profit margins. We depend on manufacturers to provide us with a desirable mix of popular new vehicles. Our operating results may be materially adversely affected if we do not obtain a sufficient supply of these vehicles. A decline in the quality of vehicles we sell, or consumers’ perception of the quality of those vehicles, may adversely affect our business. Our business is highly dependent on consumer demand and preferences. Events such as manufacturer recalls, negative publicity or legal proceedings related to these events may have a negative impact on the products we sell. If such events are significant, the profitability of our dealerships related to those manufacturers’ could be adversely affected and we could experience a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Growth Strategy Pursuant to the terms of the 2011 Credit Facilities, our ability to make acquisitions is restricted. Pursuant to the 2011 Credit Facilities, we are restricted from making dealership acquisitions in any fiscal year if the aggregate cost of all such acquisitions occurring in any fiscal year is in excess of $50.0 million, or if the aggregate cost of such acquisitions is in excess of $175.0 million during the term of the agreement, without the written consent of the Required Lenders (as that term is defined in the 2011 Credit Facilities). With this restriction on our ability to make acquisitions, our growth strategy may be limited. In addition, we may have to forfeit the opportunity to acquire profitable dealerships at attractive valuations. We may not be able to capitalize on real estate and dealership acquisition opportunities because our ability to obtain capital to fund these acquisitions is limited. We intend to finance our real estate and dealership acquisitions with cash generated from operations, through issuances of our stock or debt securities and through borrowings under credit arrangements. We may not be able to obtain additional financing by issuing stock or debt securities due to the market price of our Class A common stock, overall market conditions or covenants under our 2011 Credit Facilities that restrict our ability to issue additional indebtedness, or the need for manufacturer consent to the issuance of equity securities. Using cash to complete acquisitions could substantially limit our operating or financial flexibility. In addition, we are dependent to a significant extent on our ability to finance our new and certain of our used vehicle inventory with “floor plan financing.” Floor plan financing arrangements allow us to borrow money to buy a particular new vehicle from the manufacturer or a used vehicle on trade-in or at auction and pay off the loan when we sell that particular vehicle. We must obtain floor plan financing or obtain consents to assume existing floor plan financing in connection with our acquisition of dealerships. Substantially all the assets of our dealerships are pledged to secure the indebtedness under our Silo Floor Plan Facilities and the 2011 Credit Facilities. These pledges may impede our ability to borrow from other sources. Moreover, because the identified manufacturer-affiliated finance subsidiaries are either owned by or affiliated with BMW, Mercedes, Ford and Toyota, respectively, any deterioration of our relationship with the particular manufacturer-affiliated finance subsidiary could adversely affect our relationship with the affiliated manufacturer, and vice-versa. Manufacturers’ restrictions on acquisitions could limit our future growth. We are required to obtain the approval of the applicable manufacturer before we can acquire an additional franchise of that manufacturer. In determining whether to approve an acquisition, manufacturers may consider many factors such as our financial condition and CSI scores. Obtaining manufacturer approval of acquisitions also takes a significant amount of time, typically three to five months. We cannot assure you that manufacturers will approve future acquisitions or do so on a timely basis, which could impair the execution of our acquisition strategy. Certain manufacturers also limit the number of its dealerships that we may own, our national market share of that manufacturer’s products or the number of dealerships we may own in a particular geographic area. In addition, under an applicable franchise or dealer agreement or under state law, a manufacturer may have a right of first refusal to acquire a dealership that we seek to acquire. A manufacturer may condition approval of an acquisition on the implementation of material changes in our operations or extraordinary corporate transactions, facilities improvements or other capital expenditures. If we are unable or unwilling to comply with these conditions, we may be required to sell the assets of that manufacturer’s dealerships or terminate our franchise or dealer agreement. 19 Table of Contents Failure to effectively integrate acquired dealerships with our existing operations could adversely affect our future operating results. Our future operating results depend on our ability to integrate the operations of acquired dealerships with our existing operations. In particular, we need to integrate our management information systems, procedures and organizational structures, which can be difficult. Our growth strategy has focused on the pursuit of strategic acquisitions that either expand or complement our business. We cannot assure you that we will effectively and profitably integrate the operations of these dealerships without substantial costs, delays or operational or financial problems, due to: • the difficulties of managing operations located in geographic areas where we have not previously operated; • the management time and attention required to integrate and manage newly acquired dealerships; • the difficulties of assimilating and retaining employees; • the challenges of keeping customers; and • the challenge of retaining or attracting appropriate dealership management personnel. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not adequately anticipate all of the demands that growth through acquisitions will impose. When we resume a strategy of acquiring other dealerships, we will face risks commonly encountered with growth through acquisitions. These risks include, but are not limited to: • incurring significantly higher capital expenditures and operating expenses; • failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of acquired dealerships; • entering new markets with which we are unfamiliar; • potential undiscovered liabilities and operational difficulties at acquired dealerships; • disrupting our ongoing business; • diverting our management resources; • failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies; • impairing relationships with employees, manufacturers and customers as a result of changes in management; • increased expenses for accounting and computer systems, as well as integration difficulties; • failure to obtain a manufacturer’s consent to the acquisition of one or more of its franchises or renew the franchise or dealer agreement on terms acceptable to us; and • incorrectly valuing entities to be acquired. We may not adequately anticipate all of the demands that growth will impose on our systems, procedures and structures. We may not be able to reinstitute our acquisition strategy without the costs of future acquisitions escalating. We have grown our business primarily through acquisitions in the past. We may not be able to consummate any future acquisitions at acceptable prices and terms or identify suitable candidates. In addition, increased competition for acquisition candidates could result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us and higher acquisition prices. The magnitude, timing, pricing and nature of future acquisitions will depend upon various factors, including: • the availability of suitable acquisition candidates; 20 Table of Contents • competition with other dealer groups for suitable acquisitions; • the negotiation of acceptable terms with the seller and with the manufacturer; • our financial capabilities and ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms; • our stock price; and • the availability of skilled employees to manage the acquired companies. We may not be able to determine the actual financial condition of dealerships we acquire until after we complete the acquisition and take control of the dealerships. The operating and financial condition of acquired businesses cannot be determined accurately until we assume control. Although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding the operating and financial condition of the businesses we purchase, in light of the circumstances of each transaction, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual operating condition of these businesses. Similarly, many of the dealerships we acquire, including some of our largest acquisitions, do not have financial statements audited or prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We may not have an accurate understanding of the historical financial condition and performance of our acquired entities. Until we actually assume control of business assets and their operations, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired entities and their operations. Risks Related to the Automotive Retail Industry Increasing competition among automotive retailers reduces our profit margins on vehicle sales and related businesses. Further, the use of the internet in the vehicle purchasing process could materially adversely affect us. Automobile retailing is a highly competitive business. Our competitors include publicly and privately owned dealerships, some of which are larger and have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Many of our competitors sell the same or similar makes of new and used vehicles that we offer in our markets at competitive prices. We do not have any cost advantage in purchasing new vehicles from manufacturers due to economies of scale or otherwise. We typically rely on advertising, merchandising, sales expertise, service reputation and dealership location to sell new vehicles. Our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected if manufacturers decide to enter the retail market directly. Our F&I business and other related businesses, which have higher margins than sales of new and used vehicles, are subject to strong competition from various financial institutions and other third parties. The internet has become a significant part of the sales process in our industry. Customers are using the internet to compare pricing for vehicles and related F&I services, which may further reduce margins for new and used vehicles and profits for related F&I services. If internet new vehicle sales are allowed to be conducted without the involvement of franchised dealers, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, other dealership groups have aligned themselves with services offered on the internet or are investing heavily in the development of their own internet capabilities, which could materially adversely affect our business. Our franchise and dealer agreements do not grant us the exclusive right to sell a manufacturer’s product within a given geographic area. Our revenues or profitability could be materially adversely affected if any of our manufacturers award franchises to others in the same markets where we operate or if existing franchised dealers increase their market share in our markets. We may face increasingly significant competition as we strive to gain market share through acquisitions or otherwise. Our operating margins may decline over time as we expand into markets where we do not have a leading position. 21 Table of Contents Our dealers depend upon new vehicle sales and, therefore, their success depends in large part upon customer demand for the particular vehicles they carry. The success of our dealerships depends in large part on the overall success of the vehicle lines they carry. New vehicle sales generate the majority of our total revenue and lead to sales of higher-margin products and services such as finance, insurance, vehicle protection products and other aftermarket products, and parts and service operations. Although we have sought to limit our dependence on any one vehicle brand, and our parts and service operations and used vehicle sales may serve to offset some of this risk, we have focused our new vehicle sales operations in mid-line import and luxury brands. Our business will be harmed if overall consumer demand suffers from a severe or sustained downturn. Our business is heavily dependent on consumer demand and preferences. Retail vehicle sales are cyclical and historically have experienced periodic downturns characterized by oversupply and weak demand. These cycles are often dependent on economic conditions, consumer confidence, the level of discretionary personal income and credit availability. Deterioration in any of these conditions may have a material adverse effect on our retail business, particularly sales of new and used automobiles. In addition, severe or sustained increases in gasoline prices may lead to a reduction in automobile purchases or a shift in buying patterns from luxury and sport utility vehicle models (which typically provide higher margins to retailers) to smaller, more economical vehicles (which typically have lower margins). A decline of available financing in the lending market may adversely affect our vehicle sales volume. A significant portion of vehicle buyers, particularly in the used car market, finance their purchases of automobiles. Sub-prime lenders have historically provided financing for consumers who, for a variety of reasons including poor credit histories and lack of down payment, do not have access to more traditional finance sources. In the event lenders further tighten their credit standards or there is a further decline in the availability of credit in the lending market, the ability of these consumers to purchase vehicles could be limited which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and profitability. Our business may be adversely affected by import product restrictions and foreign trade risks that may impair our ability to sell foreign vehicles profitably. A significant portion of our new vehicle business involves the sale of vehicles, parts or vehicles composed of parts that are manufactured outside the United States. As a result, our operations are subject to customary risks of importing merchandise, including fluctuations in the relative values of currencies, import duties, exchange controls, trade restrictions, work stoppages and general political and socio-economic conditions in other countries. The United States or the countries from which our products are imported may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quotas, duties or tariffs, which may affect our operations and our ability to purchase imported vehicles and/or parts at reasonable prices. Natural disasters and adverse weather events can disrupt our business. Our stores are concentrated in states and regions in the United States, including Florida, Texas, Oklahoma and California, in which actual or threatened natural disasters and severe weather events (such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, landslides, and hail storms) may disrupt our store operations, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to business interruption, the automotive retailing business is subject to substantial risk of property loss due to the significant concentration of property values at store locations. Although we have, subject to certain deductibles, limitations, and exclusions, substantial insurance, we cannot assure you that we will not be exposed to uninsured or underinsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 22 Table of Contents In addition, the automotive manufacturing supply chain spans the globe. As such, supply chain disruptions resulting from natural disasters and adverse weather events may affect the flow of inventory or parts to us or our manufacturing partners. Such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The seasonality of our business may adversely affect our operating results. Our business is subject to seasonal variations in revenues. In our experience, demand for automobiles is lowest during the first quarter of each year. We therefore receive a disproportionate amount of revenues in the second, third and fourth quarters and expect our revenues and operating results to be lower in the first quarter. Consequently, if conditions surface during the second, third and fourth quarters that impair vehicle sales, such as higher fuel costs, depressed economic conditions or similar adverse conditions, our revenues for the year could be adversely affected. Through our strategy of employing technology to operate efficiently, make informed business decisions and better serve our customers, we have invested in internal and external business applications that are subject to cyber-security risks. These cyber-security risks include, but are not limited to: • vulnerability to cyber attack of our internal or externally hosted business applications; • interruption of service or access to systems may affect our ability to deliver vehicles or complete transactions with customers; • unauthorized access or theft of customer or employee personal confidential information; • disruption of communications (both internally and externally) that may affect the quality of information used to make informed business decisions; • damage to our reputation as a result of a breach in security that affected the financial security of our customers; • unauthorized access to strategically sensitive data; and • unauthorized access to financial accounts. Significant technology-related business functions that are outsourced include: • payroll and human resources management systems; • customer relationship management; • dealer management and financial reporting systems; • inventory management system; • consumer credit application management; • e-commerce hosting; • marketing campaign management; • fund transfers/ACH/online banking; • expense reimbursement management; • IP telephony; and • WAN/LAN administration (switch & router configuration). 23 Table of Contents We have attempted to mitigate the cyber-security risk of both our internal and outsourced functions by evaluating our internal controls and the controls of our third-party technology and systems partners. However, a breach in our or our business partners’ controls could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. General Risks Related to Investing in Our Securities Concentration of voting power and anti-takeover provisions of our charter, bylaws, Delaware law and our franchise and dealer agreements may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control. Our common stock is divided into two classes with different voting rights. This dual class stock ownership allows the present holders of the Class B common stock to control us. Holders of Class A common stock have one vote per share on all matters. Holders of Class B common stock have 10 votes per share on all matters, except that they have only one vote per share on any transaction proposed or approved by the Board of Directors or a Class B common stockholder or otherwise benefiting the Class B common stockholders constituting a: • “going private” transaction; • disposition of substantially all of our assets; • transfer resulting in a change in the nature of our business; or • merger or consolidation in which current holders of common stock would own less than 50% of the common stock following such transaction. The holders of Class B common stock (which include O. Bruton Smith, Sonic’s Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, his family members and entities they control) currently hold less than a majority of our outstanding common stock, but a majority of our voting power. This may prevent or discourage a change of control of us even if the action was favored by holders of Class A common stock. Our charter and bylaws make it more difficult for our stockholders to take corporate actions at stockholders’ meetings. In addition, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units granted under our 1997 Stock Option Plan and 2004 Stock Incentive Plan become immediately exercisable or automatically vest upon a change in control. Delaware law also makes it difficult for stockholders who have recently acquired a large interest in a company to consummate a business combination transaction with the company against its directors’ wishes. Finally, restrictions imposed by our franchise and dealer agreements may impede or prevent any potential takeover bid. Our franchise and dealer agreements allow the manufacturers the right to terminate the agreements upon a change of control of our company and impose restrictions upon the transferability of any significant percentage of our stock to any one person or entity who may be unqualified, as defined by the manufacturer, to own one of its dealerships. The inability of a person or entity to qualify with one or more of our manufacturers may prevent or seriously impede a potential takeover bid. In addition, provisions of our lending arrangements create an event of default on a change in control. A change in control would also allow the holders of our 5.0% Convertible Notes to exercise a put option contained in those notes which could also materially and adversely affect our liquidity position. These agreements, corporate governance documents and laws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or preventing stockholders from realizing a premium on the sale of their shares if we were acquired. The outcome of legal and administrative proceedings we are or may become involved in could have a material adverse effect on our future business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are involved, and expect to continue to be involved, in numerous legal and administrative proceedings arising out of the conduct of our business, including regulatory investigations and private civil actions brought by plaintiffs purporting to represent a potential class or for which a class has been certified. 24 Table of Contents Several private civil actions have been filed against us and several of our dealership subsidiaries that purport to represent classes of customers as potential plaintiffs and make allegations that certain products sold in the finance and insurance departments were done so in a deceptive or otherwise illegal manner. One of these private civil actions was filed on November 15, 2004 in South Carolina state court, York County Court of Common Pleas, against us and some of our South Carolina subsidiaries. The plaintiffs in that lawsuit were Misty J. Owens, James B. Wright, Vincent J. Astey and Joseph Lee Williams, on behalf of themselves and all other persons similarly situated, with plaintiffs seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief on behalf of the purported class. The group of plaintiffs’ attorneys representing the plaintiffs in the South Carolina lawsuit also filed another private civil class action lawsuit against us and certain of our subsidiaries on February 14, 2005 in state court in North Carolina, Lincoln County Superior Court, which similarly sought certification of a multi-state class of plaintiffs and alleged that certain products sold in the finance and insurance departments were done so in a deceptive or otherwise illegal manner. The plaintiffs in this North Carolina lawsuit were Robert Price, Carolyn Price, Marcus Cappelletti and Kelly Cappelletti, on behalf of themselves and all other persons similarly situated, with plaintiffs seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief on behalf of the purported class. The South Carolina state court action and the North Carolina state court action were subsequently consolidated into a single proceeding in private arbitration before the American Arbitration Association (the “Arbitrator”). On November 12, 2008, claimants in the consolidated arbitration filed a Motion for Class Certification as a national class action including all of the states in which we operate dealerships except Florida. Claimants are seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief on behalf of this class of customers. The parties have briefed and argued the issue of class certification. On July 19, 2010, the Arbitrator issued a Partial Final Award on Class Certification, certifying a class which includes all customers who, on or after November 15, 2000, purchased or leased from one of our dealerships a vehicle with the Etch product as part of the transaction, but not including customers who purchased or leased such vehicles from one of our dealerships in Florida. The Partial Final Award on Class Certification is not a final decision on the merits of the action. The merits of Claimants’ assertions and potential damages would still have to be proven through the remainder of the arbitration. The Arbitrator stayed the Arbitration for thirty days to allow either party to petition a court of competent jurisdiction to confirm or vacate the award. On July 22, 2010, the plaintiffs in this consolidated arbitration filed a Motion to Confirm the Arbitrator’s Partial Final Award on Class Certification in state court in North Carolina, Lincoln County Superior Court. On August 17, 2010, we removed this North Carolina state court action to federal court, and simultaneously filed a Petition to Vacate the Arbitrator’s Partial Final Award on Class Certification, with both filings made in the United Stated District Court for the Western District of North Carolina. On August 12, 2011, the United States District Court for the Western District of North Carolina issued an Order granting our Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award on Class Certification and denied Claimant’s Motion to Dismiss the same. Claimants filed a Notice of Appeal to the United States Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals on September 12, 2011. The federal court’s stay of the arbitration proceeding remains in force. At a mediation held January 16, 2012, our company reached an agreement with the Claimants to settle this ongoing dispute in its entirety. This agreement is subject to formal documentation and court approval. In the event that such formal documentation is completed and court approval is received, such a settlement would not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Although we vigorously defend ourself in all legal and administrative proceedings, the outcomes of pending and future proceedings arising out of the conduct of our business, including litigation with customers, employment related lawsuits, contractual disputes, class actions, purported class actions and actions brought by governmental authorities, cannot be predicted with certainty. An unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects. 25 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by claims alleging violations of laws and regulations in our advertising, sales and finance and insurance activities. Our business is highly regulated. In the past several years, private plaintiffs and state attorney generals have increased their scrutiny of advertising, sales, and finance and insurance activities in the sale and leasing of motor vehicles. The conduct of our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding unfair, deceptive and/or fraudulent trade practices (including advertising, marketing, sales, insurance, repair and promotion practices), truth-in-lending, consumer leasing, fair credit practices, equal credit opportunity, privacy, insurance, motor vehicle finance, installment finance, closed-end credit, usury and other installment sales. Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law may be asserted against us or any of our dealers by individuals, either individually or through class actions, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations and proceedings. Such actions may expose us to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and criminal and civil fines and penalties, including suspension or revocation of our licenses and franchise or dealer agreements to conduct dealership operations. Our business may be adversely affected by unfavorable conditions in our local markets, even if those conditions are not prominent nationally. Our performance is subject to local economic, competitive, weather and other conditions prevailing in geographic areas where we operate. We may not be able to expand geographically and any geographic expansion may not adequately insulate us from the adverse effects of local or regional economic conditions. In addition, due to the provisions and terms contained in our operating lease agreements, we may not be able to relocate a dealership operation to a more favorable location without incurring significant costs or penalties. The loss of key personnel and limited management and personnel resources could adversely affect our operations and growth. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management team, particularly our senior management, and service and sales personnel. Additionally, franchise or dealer agreements may require the prior approval of the applicable manufacturer before any change is made in dealership general managers. We do not have employment agreements with certain members of our senior management team, our dealership managers and other key dealership personnel. Consequently, the loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, as we expand we may need to hire additional managers. The market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which we operate, particularly for general managers and sales and service personnel, is highly competitive and may subject us to increased labor costs during periods of low unemployment. The loss of the services of key employees or the inability to attract additional qualified managers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the lack of qualified management or employees employed by potential acquisition candidates may limit our ability to consummate future acquisitions. Governmental regulation and environmental regulation compliance costs may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations, such as local licensing requirements, retail financing and consumer protection laws and regulations, and wage-hour, anti-discrimination and other employment practices laws and regulations. Our facilities and operations are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety, including those governing wastewater discharges, air emissions, the operation and removal of underground and aboveground storage tanks, the use, storage, treatment, transportation, release, recycling and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated property or water. The violation of these laws and regulations can result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties against us or in a cease and desist order 26 Table of Contents against our operations that are not in compliance. Our future acquisitions may also be subject to regulation, including antitrust reviews. We believe that we comply in all material respects with all laws and regulations applicable to our business, but future regulations may be more stringent and require us to incur significant additional compliance costs. Our past and present business operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations. We may be required by these laws to pay the full amount of the costs of investigation and/or remediation of contaminated properties, even if we are not at fault for disposal of the materials or if such disposal was legal at the time. Like many of our competitors, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, soil and groundwater contamination exists at certain of our properties. We cannot assure you that our other properties have not been or will not become similarly contaminated. In addition, we could become subject to potentially material new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities because of our acquisitions. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emission of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the vehicles we sell. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Accordingly, the EPA has proposed regulations that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for greenhouse gas emissions from certain stationary sources. In addition, on October 30, 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, including facilities that emit more than 25,000 tons of greenhouse gases on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. At the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations or from the vehicles that we sell could adversely affect demand for those vehicles and require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations. Potential conflicts of interest between us and our officers or directors could adversely affect our future performance. O. Bruton Smith serves as the chairman and chief executive officer of SMI. Accordingly, we compete with SMI for the management time of Mr. Smith. We have in the past and will likely in the future enter into transactions with Mr. Smith, entities controlled by Mr. Smith or our other affiliates. We believe that all of our existing arrangements with affiliates are as favorable to us as if the arrangements were negotiated between unaffiliated parties, although the majority of these transactions have neither been verified by third parties in that regard nor are likely to be so verified in the future. Potential conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us and our officers or directors in the enforcement, amendment or termination of arrangements existing between them. We may be subject to substantial withdrawal liability assessments in the future related to a multi-employer pension plan to which certain of our dealerships make contributions pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. Six of our dealership subsidiaries in Northern California currently make fixed-dollar contributions to the Automotive Industries Pension Plan (the “AI Pension Plan”) pursuant to collective bargaining agreements 27 Table of Contents between our subsidiaries and the International Association of Machinists (the “IAM”) and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (the “IBT”). The AI Pension Plan is a “multi-employer pension plan” as defined under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and our six dealership subsidiaries are among approximately 240 employers that make contributions to the AI Pension Plan pursuant to collective bargaining agreements with the IAM and IBT. In June 2006, we received information that the AI Pension Plan was substantially underfunded as of December 31, 2005. In July 2007, we received updated information that the AI Pension Plan continued to be substantially underfunded as of December 31, 2006, with the amount of such underfunding increasing versus year end 2005. In March 2008, the Board of Trustees of the AI Pension Plan notified participants, participating employers and local unions that the AI Pension Plan’s actuary, in accordance with the requirements of the federal Pension Protection Act of 2006, had issued a certification that the AI Pension Plan is in Critical Status effective with the plan year commencing January 1, 2008. As of April 2011, the AI Pension Plan remained in Critical Status for the plan year beginning January 1, 2011. In conjunction with the AI Pension Plan’s Critical Status, the Board of Trustees of the AI Pension Plan adopted a Rehabilitation Plan that implements reductions or eliminations of certain adjustable benefits that were previously available under the AI Pension Plan (including some forms of early retirement benefits, and disability and death benefits, among other items), and also implements a requirement on all participating employers to increase employer contributions to the AI Pension Plan for a seven year period commencing in 2013. Under applicable federal law, any employer contributing to a multi-employer pension plan that completely ceases participating in the plan while the plan is underfunded is subject to payment of such employer’s assessed share of the aggregate unfunded vested benefits of the plan. In certain circumstances, an employer can be assessed withdrawal liability for a partial withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan. In addition, if the financial condition of the AI Pension Plan were to continue to deteriorate to the point that the AI Pension Plan is forced to terminate and be assumed by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the “PBGC”), the participating employers could be subject to assessments by the PBGC to cover the participating employers’ assessed share of the unfunded vested benefits. If any of these adverse events were to occur in the future, it could result in a substantial withdrawal liability assessment that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A change in historical experience and/or assumptions used to estimate reserves could have a material impact on our earnings. As described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Use of Estimates and Critical Accounting Policies,” management relies on estimates in various areas of accounting and financial reporting. For example, our estimates for finance, insurance and service contracts and insurance reserves are based on historical experience. Differences between actual results and our historical experiences and/or our assumptions could have a material impact on our earnings in the period of the change and in periods subsequent to the change. Impairment of our goodwill could have a material adverse impact on our earnings. Pursuant to applicable accounting pronouncements, we evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We describe the process for testing goodwill more thoroughly in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Use of Estimates and Critical Accounting Policies.” If we determine that the amount of our goodwill is impaired at any point in time, we are required to reduce goodwill on our balance sheet. If goodwill of our single reporting unit is impaired based on a future impairment test, we will be required to record a significant non-cash impairment charge that may also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which the impairment of goodwill occurs. As of December 31, 2011, our balance sheet reflected a carrying amount of approximately $468.5 million in goodwill. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 28 Table of Contents 