Item 1A. Risk Factors. As with any business, we face a number of risks. If any of the following risks occur, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition would likely suffer. We have grouped these risk factors into several categories, as follows: 1. General Risks Related to Our Business 2. Risks Related to Our Affordable Housing Group 3. Risks Related to Our Credit Risk Products Group 4. Risks Related to Application of Tax Laws 5. Risks Related to Investing in Our Company 1. General Risks Related to Our Business Our businesses, results of operations and financial condition have been materially and adversely affected by recent market conditions Since the middle of 2007, worldwide economic conditions have been weak, while domestic commercial real estate markets deteriorated significantly in 2009, including rising defaults, and continued lack of liquidity, wide credit spreads and lack of price transparency. We have been materially and adversely affected by these conditions and events in a number of ways, including: · severe and continued declines to the market values of the investment portfolios of Consolidated Partnerships, leading to significant other-than-temporary impairments (“OTTI”); · a general decline in business activity caused by stagnation in the many markets in which we operate; and · curtailment of our liquidity as described in Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis. Until markets recover, our businesses may continue to be negatively impacted. And while we have taken steps to stabilize the Company, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in reinvigorating the businesses we retained and grow to the extent we currently plan. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will resume levels of business activities we experienced in the past. We rely upon business relationships which may not continue We rely upon relationships with key investors and developers. If these relationships do not continue, or if we are unable to form new relationships, our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected. Specifically: - 6 - · in the three years prior to the sharp downturn in the tax credit syndication market, three key investors provided an average of 61.8% of the equity capital raised by tax credit syndication funds we sponsored (Bank of America, N.A. (“Bank of America”), Citibank, N.A., and JP Morgan Chase & Co. each provided over 15% of the equity raised). These amounts exclude Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as both have ceased investing in these funds; · in the three years prior to the downturn in the tax credit syndication market, 10 developers provided 37.3% of the tax credit properties for which we arranged equity financing through our tax credit funds. These amounts exclude developers no longer in business or with whom we do not anticipate doing further business; · Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were the purchasers of all of the loans originated by our Commercial Real Estate and Affordable Housing groups in 2009; and · Freddie Mac is the counterparty to the re-securitization of our mortgage revenue bond portfolio. Our ability to generate revenue through mortgage sales to institutional investors largely depends on programs sponsored by GSE’s, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market. In 2008, the federal government placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship in an attempt to stabilize those GSEs, but the full impact of the conservatorship is still yet to be determined. We are not involved in the single family home mortgage business but we are involved with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with respect to the multifamily rental housing finance business, which extends across our Affordable Housing and Commercial Real Estate groups. Our agreements with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which afford us a number of advantages, may be canceled by the counterparty upon the occurrence of certain conditions, and for cause. Cancellation of one or more of these agreements would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and could result in further disqualification with other counterparties and other materially adverse consequences. Factors beyond our control may cause investors or purchasers to curtail their activities. Developers may also experience financial difficulties that would, in turn, reduce the amount of business we transact with them. If developers were to fail, it could also lead to some of the adverse consequences listed under There are risks associated with investments secured by real estate, which may negatively affect our net income and cash flows below. By reason of their regulated status, certain of our investors have regulatory incentives to invest in our sponsored investment funds in addition to the economic return from such investments. A change in such regulations could result in determinations by such investors to seek other investment opportunities. Lastly, many of our financing arrangements, such as our Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility and mortgage banking warehouse line are with Bank of America (either as sole lender or as lead lender). Bank of America also owns Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc., which is involved in a number of credit intermediation transactions with us. With continued contraction in the credit markets we have become increasingly dependent upon fewer lenders to provide needed financing. There are risks associated with investments secured by real estate, which may negatively affect our net income and cash flows Through our subsidiaries, we derive a large portion of our earnings by: · originating and managing funds that provide equity to Tax Credit property partnerships; · originating and servicing multifamily mortgages; and · investing in loans secured by real estate or revenues from real estate. Our success depends in large part on the performance of the properties underlying these investments, which subjects us to various types and degrees of risk, including the following: · the properties might not generate sufficient income to meet their operating expenses and payments on the related debt and/or operating expenses may escalate leading to the same result; · economic conditions may limit the amount of rent that can be charged at the properties, the timeliness of rent payments or a reduction in occupancy levels; · there may be rent limitations for certain properties that could limit our ability to generate the funds necessary to maintain the properties in proper condition; · current market conditions have led to increased foreclosures, resulting in greater supply of low-cost homes which could lower the demand for multifamily rental housing; - 7 - · if an investment defaults, the fair market value of the property securing such investment may be less than the principal amount of our investment; · there are certain types of losses which are either uninsurable or not economically insurable; as a result, the owners of the real estate securing our investments could be required to pay for such costs; and · a guarantor may be unable to fulfill its obligations. All of these conditions and events may increase the possibility that, among other things: · a property owner may be unable to meet its obligations to us as holder of its debt; · a property owner may default on a mortgage for which we have a loss-sharing obligation; · a fund may not be able to pay our fees; and · we could lose our invested capital and/or anticipated future revenue. This could decrease the fair value of our investments, lower the fair value of assets we pledge as collateral, impair our ability to generate new business and negatively affect our net income and cash flows. We may suffer adverse consequences from changing interest rates Because our debt is variable rate and not hedged, an increase in interest rates could negatively affect our net income and cash flows. Additionally, increasing interest rates may: · reduce the fair value of our investments and residual interests in securitization transactions; · decrease the amount we could realize on the sale or financing of those investments; · reduce the number of properties economically feasible to finance; · reduce the demand for financing, which could limit our ability to originate loans or to structure transactions, thereby reducing fees and interest we receive; · restrict our access to capital; and · cause investors to find alternative investments that are more attractive than the funds we sponsor. Conversely, falling interest rates may prompt historical renters to become homebuyers, in turn potentially reducing the demand for the multifamily rental housing we finance. Further, a portion of our net income is generated by interest income we earn on mortgage escrow deposits. If interest rates decrease, our revenue decreases as well. Furthermore, strategies we may follow to address these risks carry risks of their own, including, but not limited to: · the potential inability to refinance debt at terms we find acceptable; · lack of availability of alternate sources of fixed-rate or lower cost financing; · default by interest rate swap counterparties on their obligations to us; · our inability to match the duration or reset periods of assets and liabilities that we want to mitigate the effect of changing rates; and · other efforts to manage risks related to changes in interest rates that may not be successful. If a change in interest rates causes the consequences described above, or otherwise negatively affects us, the result could adversely affect our ability to generate net income or cash flows. Heightened competition may negatively impact our earnings We are subject to competition in all of our business lines, as described in Item 1. – Business – Business Overview – Competition. As competition increases, we may experience compression in the level of profits we earn on our various investments and financing products due to, among other things: - 8 - · reductions in the rate of fees we earn from originating and managing funds; · reductions in the rate of interest we earn on investments; and · reductions in the rates of origination and servicing fees for mortgages. As we may borrow funds to make investments, rising interest rates may compound this issue. Absent cost reductions, such compression may not permit us to enjoy the margins we have achieved historically, thereby lowering our revenues and net income. Our assets are pledged and there are restrictions on securitizing/monetizing them Substantially all of our assets have been pledged as collateral in connection with our debt facilities and credit intermediation activities and we may not have full access to them until we exit the related programs (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). This may prevent us from entering into asset specific financing agreements at terms more favorable than under existing agreements. Also, if we are unable to meet the payment terms under the related agreements, we may be forced to sell certain assets, which could result in losses and the elimination of income and cash flows we currently earn. There are risks of loss associated with our mortgage originations that may negatively impact our net income and cash flows In our DUS program, we originate loans through one of our subsidiaries that are thereafter purchased or credit enhanced by Fannie Mae. Pursuant to a master loss sharing agreement with Fannie Mae, we retain a first loss position with respect to the loans that we originate and sell under this program. For these loss sharing loans, we assume responsibility for a portion of any loss that may result from borrower defaults, based on the Fannie Mae loss sharing formulas, and Fannie Mae risk Levels I, II or III. All of the 875 loss sharing loans in this program as of December 31, 2009, were Level I loans. For a majority of these loans, if a default occurs, we are responsible for the first 5% of the unpaid principal balance and a portion of any additional losses to a maximum of 20% of the original pri ncipal balance; any remaining loss is borne by Fannie Mae. For 98 loans a modified risk sharing arrangement is applied in which our risk share is 0% to 75% of our overall share of the loss. For Level II and Level III loans, we may carry a higher loss sharing percentage. Pursuant to this agreement, we are responsible for funding 100% of mortgagor delinquency (principal and interest) and servicing advances (taxes, insurance and foreclosure costs) until the amounts advanced exceed 5% of the unpaid principal balance at the date of default. Thereafter, for Level I loans, we may request interim loss sharing adjustments which allow us to fund 25% of such advances until final settlement under the master loss sharing agreement or up to our maximum assumed responsibility under the agreement. No interim sharing adjustments are available for Level II and Level III loans. We also participate in loss sharing transactions under Freddie Mac’s DUI program whereby we originate loans that are purchased by Freddie Mac. Under the terms of our master agreement with Freddie Mac, we are obligated to reimburse Freddie Mac for a portion of any loss that may result from borrower defaults on DUI transactions. For such loans, if a default occurs, our share of the loss will be the first 5% of the unpaid principal balance and 25% of the next 20% of the remaining unpaid principal balance to a maximum of 10% of the unpaid principal balance. The loss on a defaulted loan is calculated as the unpaid principal amount due, unpaid interest due and default resolutions costs (taxes, insurance, operation and foreclosure costs) less recoveries. Our maximum “first loss” exposure under the DUS and DUI programs is detailed in ITEM 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis – SECTION 4 – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Commitments and Contingencies - Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Note 31 to the consolidated financial statements. As a mortgage lender, we must comply with numerous licensing requirements, and our inability to remain in compliance with such requirements could adversely affect our operations and, in general, our reputation Like other mortgage lending companies, we must comply with the applicable licensing and other regulatory requirements of each jurisdiction in which we are authorized to lend. These requirements are complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. From time to time we are subject to examination by regulators and, if it is determined that we are not in compliance with the applicable requirements, we may be fined, and our license to lend in one or more jurisdictions may be suspended or revoked. If our loan servicing portfolio decreases, our net income and cash flows would be negatively affected A large portion of our revenues in the mortgage origination business relate to recurring fees for servicing mortgages we originate or those for which we have sub-servicing agreements. Loans in our portfolio are subject to maturity, prepayments, defaults and refinancing after which we may not recapture the loan. Upon these events, our portfolio would decline, depriving us of the associated revenue stream. This, in turn, would negatively affect our net income and cash flows. - 9 - We have redeemable securities that could adversely affect our liquidity Following the March 2010 Restructuring, we continue to have redeemable shares outstanding for which the redemption feature can be exercised in 2012. Should the holders of those shares exercise their redemption rights, we would be required to pay $12.0 million to redeem the shares. If we are required to pay the redemption price, those funds would not be available for operations or to reduce outstanding debt and would negatively impact our cash flows. 2. Risks Related to Our Affordable Housing group Funds may not generate sufficient cash to pay amounts due to us, which may negatively impact our net income and cash flows Much of the revenue in our Affordable Housing group is earned from fees that Tax Credit funds we sponsor and manage pay to our subsidiaries for services rendered. These funds are dependent upon the cash flows of Tax Credit property partnerships in which they invest to generate their own cash flows that are used to pay such fees for services, such as asset management and advisory services. As the Tax Credit property partnerships are susceptible to numerous operational risks (see General Risks Related to Our Business – There are risks associated with investments secured by real estate, which may negatively affect our net income and cash flows), the Tax Credit funds may not collect sufficient cash to pay the fees they owe to us. If we do not receive these fees, or if we determine that the amounts are not collectible, the loss of such earnings would negatively impact our net income and cash flows. We may be unable to raise capital for new investment funds A large part of our net income is based on fees and equity income we earn for originating or managing investment funds, many of which have finite lives. Our current strategy to expand our position as an asset manager is dependent upon our ability to attract investors to funds we originate. If we are not successful in originating funds to expand our business and to replace others as they approach the end of their life cycles, our ability to earn income and generate cash flows will decline. Additionally, real estate underlies most of our business lines, whether by virtue of sponsoring funds associated with real estate or by direct investment. While sometimes viewed as an attractive investment sector, there is no guarantee that the investors in the funds we sponsor will continue to allocate capital to investments associated with real estate. Should there be a general decline in capital invested in the sector, our ability to sponsor funds would be diminished and the income we earn from these activities would decline. Certain management agreements have finite terms and may not be renewed which could negatively affect our net income and cash flows We receive fees from investment funds we sponsor and manage. These funds generally do not require or authorize their investors to approve the funds’ management arrangements with us as we will generally have controlling interests in the funds or the entities which control the funds. However, our management is subject to the fiduciary duty to the investors in those funds, which may affect our ability to continue to collect the fees and equity allocations. Furthermore, the organizational documents of certain of these funds allow for the investors to remove us as general partner or managing member without cause or upon the occurrence of certain events. Although the funds will generally be required to pay fair market value if they exercise this right, our right to receive future fees would t erminate and there can be no assurance that the payment will fully compensate us for the future loss in revenue. Finally, many of these funds have finite lives, after which they are liquidated. The termination of a fund will result in a termination of the fees we receive from it. Other parties have the first right to cash flows from our residual interest investments Because of our utilization of securitizations, we own certain residual interests subordinate in right of payment to other senior securities. There are risks in owning such residual interests that could adversely affect our net income and cash flows, including: · the risk that borrowers may not be able to make payments, resulting in us, as the holder of the residual interests, receiving principal and interest payments that are less than expected or no payment at all; and · the risk that the holders of the senior interests may control the ability to enforce remedies, limiting our ability to take actions that might protect our interests. Any reduction in the cash flows as noted above could adversely impact our net income and cash flows. - 10 - There is a risk of elimination of, or changes to, governmental programs that could limit our product offerings A significant portion of our Affordable Housing group revenues is derived from the syndication of partnership interests in partnerships that invest in properties eligible for LIHTCs which are a provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Section 42 of the Code authorizes federal LIHTCs for affordable multifamily rental housing. Under this program, a project either receives an allocation of federal LIHTCs from an agency designated by the government of the state in which the project is located or the project is entitled to the LIHTCs by reason of its being financed by volume cap mortgage revenue bonds. There are two types of credits: · 4% credits – for new buildings and existing buildings financed with mortgage revenue bonds that receive an allocation of the volume cap, or for new and existing buildings financed with below-market federal financing that receive an allocation of federal LIHTCs from state agencies; and · 9% credits – for new buildings that receive an allocation of federal LIHTCs from state agencies. The credits are taken over a period of ten years, which can span over an 11-year operating period. The credit amount is based on the qualified basis of each building, which is based upon the adjusted basis of the building multiplied by the percentage of units in the building leased to low-income tenants. In order to qualify for the federal LIHTC, the property must comply with either of the “20/50” or “40/60” tests that apply to tax-exempt bonds (see The treatment of our income as federally tax exempt depends upon the application of tax laws that could be challenged under Risks Related to Application of Tax Laws later in this section). In addition, the amount of rent that may be charged to qualifying low-income tenants cannot exceed 30% of the “imputed income” for each unit, i.e., 30% of the imputed income of a family earning 50% or 60% of area median income, as adjusted for family size. Failure to comply continuously with these requirements throughout the 15-year recapture period could result in a recapture of the federal LIHTCs. In addition, if the rents from the property are not sufficient to pay debt service on the mortgage revenue bonds or other financing secured by the property and a default ensues, the initial borrower could lose ownership of the project as a result of foreclosure of the mortgage. In such event, the initial equity investors would no longer be entitled to claim the federal LIHTCs, but the foreclosing lender could claim the remaining LIHTCs provided the project continues to be operated in accordance with the requirements of Section 42. As a result, there is a strong incentive for the federal LIHTC investor to ensure that the development is current on debt service payments by making additional capital contributions or otherwise. With respect to most of the properties, substantially all the multifamily units are rented to individuals or families earning no greater than 60% of area median income and, thus, substantially all of the qualified basis may be used to determine the amount of the federal LIHTC. This maximizes the amount of equity raised from the purchasers of the federal LIHTCs for each development and provides for the maximum amount of rent that can be obtained from tenants where there is currently strong occupancy demand. The Tax Credit funds we sponsor contribute the negotiated equity to the developer/owner, paid over a period of time. In the case of properties utilizing 4% credits, this contribution will usually provide between 25% and 35% of the costs of the development. For properties utilizing 9% credits, this contribution will usually provide between 45% and 55% of the cost of the development. Since LIHTCs are a part of the Code, Congress could repeal or modify this legislation at any time or modify the tax laws so that the value of LIHTC benefits is reduced. If such legislation is repealed or adversely modified, we would no longer be able to pursue this portion of our business strategy. Our role as a sponsor of investment funds and co-developer of Tax Credit properties exposes us to risks of loss In connection with the sponsorship of investment funds and joint venture activities for co-development of Tax Credit properties, we act as a fiduciary to the investors in our investment funds and in certain cases also provide performance guarantees to these investors. We advance funds to acquire interests in Tax Credit property partnerships for inclusion in investment funds and, at any point in time, the amount of funds advanced can be material. Recovery of these amounts is subject to our ability to attract investors to new investment funds or, if investors are not found, the sale of the partnership interests in the underlying properties. We could also be liable to investors in investment funds and third parties as a result of serving as general partner or special limited partner in various investment f unds. In addition, investors in the Tax Credit funds we sponsor and manage anticipate certain returns on their investment and for certain funds we have agreed to provide specified rates of return. If the Tax Credit properties in which these funds invest do not perform as expected, we may be required to make payments in order to cover shortfalls at the property partnership level or to insure funds produce their specified level of return (see also There are risks associated with credit intermediation and commitments to provide specified rates of return that expose us to losses under Risks Related to Our Credit Risk Products Group). - 11 - We may advance monies to a fund to cover shortfalls at the property partnership level, although we are not required to do so, to maintain our relationship with Tax Credit fund investors and to preserve the value of our residual interests in the mortgage revenue bonds we re-securitized. If we make such advances, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover the monies. If we determine that any such advances are not recoverable, the negative impact on our net income and cash flows could be material. 3. Risks Related to Our Credit Risk Products Group There are risks associated with credit intermediation and commitments to provide specified rates of return that could reduce our reported income Through our subsidiaries, we provide credit intermediation to third parties for a fee. These contracts provide for payment to cover shortfalls at properties or provide specified internal rates of return to investors in tax credit funds we sponsor. All of these credit intermediation agreements have been executed at bankruptcy-remote subsidiaries. These bankruptcy-remote subsidiaries have been capitalized to meet the payments required under these agreements, however in certain cases we may be required to make additional payments to these bankruptcy-remote subsidiaries if the Tax Credit properties related to these agreements do not perform as expected. In certain instances these bankruptcy-remote subsidiaries are required to advance funds to a fund to cover shortfalls at the property partnership level in o rder to insure that the investors do not lose their expected tax benefits and, if the internal rate of return to investors falls below the specified level, these subsidiaries would be required to make a payment so that the specified rate of return will be achieved. If third parties default on their obligations for which these subsidiaries provided credit intermediation, our reported loss would likely be in an amount far in excess of the fee paid to us for providing the service. If advances are made to cover shortfalls at property partnership level, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover the monies. If we determine that any such advances are not recoverable, the negative impact on our net income and cash flows could be material. The maximum potential liability pursuant to these transactions is detailed in ITEM 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis – SECTION 4 – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Commitments and Contingencies – Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Note 31 to the consolidated financial statements. 4. Risks Related to Application of Tax Laws Our classification as a publicly traded partnership not taxable as a corporation is not free from doubt and could be challenged We, and some of our subsidiaries, operate as partnerships or are disregarded for federal income tax purposes. This allows us to pass through some of our income, including our federally tax-exempt income, and deductions to our shareholders. The listing of our common shares on the Over-the-Counter Exchange causes us to be treated as a “publicly traded partnership” for federal income tax purposes. We believe that we have been and are properly treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. However, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) could challenge our partnership status and we could fail to qualify as a partnership in years that are subject to audit or in future years. Qualification as a partnership involves the application of numerous technical le gal provisions. For example, a publicly traded partnership is generally taxable as a corporation unless 90% or more of its gross income is “qualifying” income (which includes interest, dividends, real property rents, gains from the sale or other disposition of real property, gain from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of interest or dividends, and certain other items). We have represented that in all prior years of our existence at least 90% of our gross income was qualifying income and we intend to conduct our operations in a manner such that at least 90% of our gross income will constitute qualifying income in the current year and in the future. Although the issue is not free from doubt, we believe we have been and are properly treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. In determining whether interest is treated as qualifying income under these rules, interest income derived from a “financial business” and income and gains derived by a “dealer” in securities are not treated as qualifying income. We have represented that we are acting as an investor with respect to our remaining mortgage revenue bond investments and that we have not engaged in, and will not engage in, a financial business, although there is no clear guidance on what constitutes a financial business under the tax law. We have taken the position that for purposes of determining whether we are in a financial business, Affordable Housing activities that we are engaged in now and that we contemplate engaging in prospectively would not cause us to be engaged in a financial business or to be consi dered a “dealer” in securities. The IRS could assert that our activities constitute a financial business. If our activities constitute (or as a result of increased volume constitute) a financial business or cause us to be treated as a dealer, there is a substantial risk that more than 10% of our gross income would not constitute qualifying income. We could also be treated as if we were engaged in a financial business if the activities of Centerline Capital Group (“CCG”) and its subsidiaries were attributed to us and were determined to constitute a financial business. CCG is subject to income tax on its income. Accordingly, we believe the activities and income of CCG and its subsidiaries will not be attributed to Centerline for purposes of determining Centerline’s tax status. In addition, in determining whether interest is treated as qualifying income, interest income that is determined based upon the income or pro fits of any person is not treated as qualifying income. - 12 - If, for any reason, less than 90% of our gross income constitutes qualifying income, items of income and deduction would not pass through to our shareholders and our shareholders would be treated for federal income tax purposes as stockholders in a corporation. We would be required to pay income tax at corporate rates on any portion of our net income that did not constitute tax-exempt income. In addition, a portion of our federally tax-exempt income may be included in determining our alternative minimum tax liability. Distributions by us to our shareholders would constitute dividend income taxable to such holders to the extent of our earnings and profits, which would include tax-exempt income, as well as any taxable income we might have, and the payment of these distributions would not be deductible by us. These consequences would have a material adverse effect on us, our shareholders and the price of our shares. There is a risk that the IRS will disagree with our judgment with respect to allocations We use various accounting and reporting conventions to determine each shareholder’s allocable share of income, including any market discount taxable as ordinary income, gain, loss and deductions. Our allocation provisions will be respected for federal income tax purposes only if they are considered to have “substantial economic effect” or are in accordance with the partners’ “interest in the partnership”. There is no assurance that the IRS will agree with our various accounting methods, conventions and allocation provisions, particularly our allocation of adjustments to shareholders attributable to the differences between the shareholders’ purchase price of common shares and their shares of our tax basis in our assets, pursuant to an election we made. The structure of our acquisitions could be challenged Our acquisitions of Centerline Affordable Housing Advisors LLC (“CAHA”) and other subsidiaries were structured to prevent us from realizing active income from these businesses and effectively to receive a tax deduction (via the allocation of subsidiary income) for payments made to its selling principals. It is possible that the IRS could challenge this structure, with material adverse consequences to us. First, the IRS could assert that we, as the parent trust, are the owner of these businesses, in which case the parent trust would realize an amount of active income from them that would require it to be treated as a corporation instead of a publicly traded partnership for income tax purposes. If the IRS prevailed, we would be required to pay taxes on that income, thereby reducing the amount available for us to make distributions. The Company has currently suspended its distributions. As a result, it is still likely that the value of our shares would decline. Second, the IRS might assert that the Special Common Units (“SCUs”) and Special Common Interests (“SCIs”) held by the selling principals of the businesses and others are actually shares of our Company. If this position prevailed, the distributions payable on the units would not reduce the taxable income of CCG. In such event, CCG would be subject to increased tax, which could reduce our net income, our cash flows and our distributions, which could also result in a decrease in the portion of our distributions that is excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes. The treatment of our income as federally tax exempt depends upon the application of tax laws that could be challenged In our Affordable Housing business, we invest primarily in investments that generate tax-exempt income. However, the IRS may seek to re-characterize a portion of our tax-exempt income as taxable income as described in the Tax-exemption of interest on mortgage revenue bonds section below. If the IRS were successful, a shareholder’s distributive share of such income would be taxable to the shareholder, regardless of whether an amount of cash equal to such distributive share is actually distributed. Any taxable income would be allocated pro rata among our CRA Preferred Shares, our CRA Shares and our common shares. The Company has suspended its distributions and as a result, some CRA shares are not currently allocated any income. Tax-exemption of interest on mortgage revenue bonds On the date of original issuance or re-issuance of each mortgage revenue bond, nationally recognized bond counsel or special tax counsel rendered its opinion to the effect that, based on the law in effect on that date, interest on such mortgage revenue bonds is excludable from federally-taxable gross income, except with respect to any revenue bond during any period in which it is held by a “substantial user” of the property financed with the proceeds of such mortgage revenue bonds or a “related person” of such a “substantial user.” Each opinion speaks only as of the date it was delivered. However, an opinion of counsel has no binding effect and there is no assurance that the IRS will not contest these conclusions or, if contested, that they will be sustained by a cour t. The Code establishes certain requirements which must be met subsequent to the issuance and delivery of tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds for interest on such mortgage revenue bonds to remain excludable from federally-taxable gross income. Among these continuing requirements are restrictions on the investment and use of the revenue bond proceeds. In addition, there is a requirement that the property be operated as a rental property and that during the Qualified Project Period (defined below) at least either: · 20% of the units must be rented to individuals or families whose income is less than 50% of the area median gross income (the “20/50 test”); or · 40% of the units must be rented to individuals or families whose income is less than 60% of the area median gross income (the “40/60 test”); - 13 - in each case with adjustments for family size. The Qualified Project Period begins when 10% of the units in the property are first occupied and ends on the latest of the date: (i) which is 15 years after 50% of the units are occupied; (ii) on which all the bonds have been retired; or (iii) on which any assistance provided under Section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 terminates. Continuing requirements also include compliance and compliance with rules pertaining to arbitrage. Each issuer of the mortgage revenue bonds, as well as each of the underlying borrowers, has covenanted to comply with certain procedures and guidelines designed to ensure satisfaction of the continuing requirements of the Code. Failure to comply with these continuing requirements of the Code may cause the interest on such bonds to be includable in federally-taxable gross income retroactively to the date of issuance, regardless of when such noncompliance occurs. Greenberg Traurig, LLP (also referred to as “Greenberg Traurig”) as our bond counsel, and Paul Hastings, as our securities counsel (Greenberg Traurig and Paul Hastings are collectively referred to herein as our “Counsel”), ha ve not, in connection with this filing, passed upon and do not assume any responsibility for, but rather have assumed the continuing correctness of, the opinions of bond counsel or special tax counsel (including opinions rendered by Greenberg Traurig) relating to the exclusion from federally-taxable gross income of interest on the mortgage revenue bonds and have not independently verified whether any events or circumstances have occurred since the date such opinions were rendered that would adversely affect the conclusions set forth herein. “Substantial User Limitation” Interest on a mortgage revenue bond we own will not be excluded from gross income during any period in which we are a "substantial user" of the properties financed with the proceeds of such mortgage revenue bond or a "related person" to a "substantial user". A “substantial user” generally includes any underlying borrower and any person or entity that uses the financed properties on other than a de minimis basis. Greenberg Traurig has reviewed most of the mortgage revenue bonds we own, the ownership of the obligors of our mortgage revenue bonds and the ownership of our shares and our subsidiaries' shares and, with respect to the mortgage revenue bonds which it reviewed, concurs in the conclusion that we are not "substantial users" of the properties financed with the proceeds of the mortgage revenue bonds or related parties thereto. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS would not challenge such conclusion. If such challenge were successful, the interest received on any bond for which we were treated as a "substantial user" or a "related party" thereto would be includable in federally taxable gross income. Tax exemption of distributions on residual interest We hold residual interests in a large number of federally tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds, primarily through our re-securitization program with Freddie Mac. These residual interests entitle us to a share of the federally tax-exempt interest of such mortgage revenue bonds. Special tax counsel for each securitization program has rendered an opinion to the effect that the issuer of the residual interests will be classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and the holders of the residual interests will be treated as partners of such partnership. Consequently, as the holder of the residual interests, we treat our share of the federally tax-exempt income allocated and distributed to us as federally tax-exempt income. However, it is possible that the IRS could disagree with those c onclusions and an alternative characterization could cause income from the residual interests to be treated as ordinary taxable income. If such an assertion of an alternative characterization prevailed, it would materially adversely affect us and our shareholders. In addition, it is possible that the interest on one or more of the mortgage revenue bonds in which we own a residual interest could be treated by the IRS as taxable ordinary income. In such event, the distributions on such residual interest would also, to the extent of such taxable interest on an underlying mortgage revenue bond, be treated as taxable ordinary income. Also, in most securitization programs, including the Freddie Mac securitization, we are obligated to repurchase any mortgage revenue bond the interest on which has been determined by the IRS to be taxable ordinary income. We may not realize the value of net operating loss carry forwards Due to significant operating losses over the past several years, we have a significant net operating loss (“NOL”) that can be carried forward to offset taxable income in future periods. While we currently carry the deferred tax asset related to the NOL carry forward at zero value due to uncertainty of utilization in the near term, the carry forward period of 20 years increases the potential value of the asset. Certain provisions of the Code would eliminate our ability to carry the losses forward if there were to be a “change in control”. If such an event were to occur, the cash flow benefits we might otherwise have would be eliminated. Furthermore, strategies we may follow to address these risks carry risks of their own, as described in Risks Related to Investing in Our Company - Our anti-takeover provisions may discourage third-party proposals. - 14 - 5. Risks Related to Investing in Our Company Holding our common stock could result in income taxes without corresponding cash distributions The Company generates taxable and nontaxable income from its remaining mortgage revenue bond holdings and related investments. Because the Company is taxed as a partnership, this income will be passed through to our common shareholders. As long as we do not pay dividends, common shareholders may have a state tax liability with respect to the portion of federally tax exempt interest taxable in their state of residence and no cash distributions to offset that liability. Because we hold most of our investments through our subsidiaries, our shareholders are effectively subordinated to the liabilities and equity of our subsidiaries and our preferred shares We hold most of our investments through our subsidiaries. Because we own only common equity of our subsidiaries, we, and therefore holders of our shares, are effectively subordinated to the debt obligations, preferred equity, SCUs and SCIs of our subsidiaries, which at December 31, 2009, aggregated approximately $1.2 billion. In particular, the holders of the preferred shares of Centerline Equity Issuer Trust (“Equity Issuer”), our wholly owned bankruptcy-remote subsidiary, are entitled to receive preferential distributions with respect to $232.5 million of residual interest investments it holds. Accordingly, a portion of the cash flow from our investments, particularly certain retained interests, will not be available for distribution on our common shares. Likewise if we pay a co mmon dividend in future periods, holders of SCUs issued by our Centerline Capital Company LLC (“CCC”) subsidiary are entitled to receive preferential distributions with respect to the earnings of CCC and its subsidiaries. Our earnings, therefore, may not be available for distribution to our common shareholders. We are dependent on our Manager and may not find a suitable replacement if the Manager terminates the management agreement In connection with the March 2010 Restructuring, we entered into a management agreement with Island Centerline Manager LLC (“Manager”). Going forward the Manager will provide services with respect to various strategic functions that include, among other things: · identification of investment and acquisition opportunities; · advising as to operation and development of our remaining businesses; · advising as to debt and equity financings and hedging activities; · advising as to selection and engagement of professional service providers; and · advising as to negotiations with counterparties with respect to the above. The management agreement expires in March 2015, subject to automatic, one-year renewals thereafter unless we or the Manager give 90 day notice of non-renewal. The management agreement may be terminated: · without cause by our Manager; or · with or without cause by a majority of our Board of Trustees The Manager can terminate the agreement without penalty, but we are generally subject to a termination fee based on the contracted annual amount and the incentive fee to which the Manager would be entitled. If our Manager terminates the management agreement, we may not be able to find an adequate replacement Manager, or we may not be able to hire appropriate personnel to perform the services the Manager provides. If such an event occurs, it could negatively impact our net income and cash flows. In addition, an affiliate of the Manager acts as sub-servicer for our servicing portfolio. Should we terminate the sub-servicing agreement, we would be subject to a termination fee based on the annualized fee that the sub-servicer would have earned pursuant to the contract. Should the sub-servicer terminate the agreement, we may not be able to engage a replacement without paying a less favorable rate or perform the function ourselves more economically. Any such termination would also likely be disruptive to our business. We depend upon the services of our executive officers and other employees We and our subsidiaries depend upon the services of our executive officers, other individuals who comprise our executive management team and other key employees, none of whom are subject to employment agreements. All decisions with respect to the management and control of our Company and our subsidiaries, subject to the supervision of our Board of Trustees (or the applicable subsidiary’s board), are currently made by the executive management team and other key members of management are responsible for executing the daily operations of our business. The impact of the economy on our business increases the risk of employee turnover. The departure or the loss of the services of any of these key officers or a large number of senior management personnel and other employees could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business effectively and our future results of operations. - 15 - Our Board of Trustees can change our business policies unilaterally Our Board of Trustees may amend or revise our business plan and certain other policies without shareholder approval. Therefore, our shareholders have no control over changes in our policies, including our business policies with respect to acquisitions, financing, growth, debt, capitalization and distributions, which are determined by our Board of Trustees. There are possible adverse effects arising from potential future issuance of shares or a reverse stock split Our Board of Trustees is permitted to offer additional equity or debt securities of our Company and our subsidiaries in exchange for money, property or other consideration. Our ability to sell or exchange such securities will depend on conditions then prevailing in the relevant capital markets and our results of operations, financial condition, investment portfolio and business prospects. As long as the issuance is made in accordance with our trust agreement, the issuance of such additional securities would not be subject to the approval of our shareholders and could negatively affect the resale price of our shares. Shareholders would not have any preemptive rights in connection with the issuance of any additional securities we or our subsidiaries may offer and any of our equity offerings would cause di lution of a shareholder’s investment in us. In connection with the March 2010 Restructuring and the concurrent equity restructuring, we issued a new series of shares (the “Special Series A Shares”) that we anticipate will be converted into 289.9 million common shares during 2010. In addition, 12.7 million common shares remained issuable in exchange for outstanding SCUs. When the new series of shares convert to common shares, and if the SCUs convert to common shares, their sale in the public market could, and depending upon the number of involved, likely would, adversely affect prevailing market prices of our shares and our ability to raise additional capital through the equity markets. As a result of our March 2010 Restructuring and the potential conversion of the Special Series A Shares to common shares, our Board of Trustees may determine at some time in the future that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to undertake a reverse stock split which would reduce the outstanding number of shares. In such event, holders of fractional shares may be required to sell such fractional shares to the Company for an amount which may be de minimis. Further, the value, if any, of any reverse stock split may not immediately be reflected in the trading value of the shares. The effect of any corporate action affecting the outstanding number of common shares or common share equivalents cannot currently be predicted with any degree of accuracy. Counterparties to our 2010 equity restructuring and current and former members of our management team have significant voting power on matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, and their interests may be in conflict with the interests of our other shareholders In connection with the March 2010 Restructuring, we restructured our equity and issued our Special Series A shares. A large portion of those shares were issued to C-III Capital Partners LLC (the “Purchaser” in the March 2010 Restructuring). The Purchaser also purchased additional shares from Related Companies, L.P. (“TRCLP”) which is controlled by Stephen M. Ross, the former chairman of our Board of Trustees. On a fully diluted basis, the Purchaser’s shares account for more than 38% of our total voting shares. At the same time, in consideration for restructuring certain credit intermediation agreements, we issued Special Series A Shares to Natixis. Also, in connection with our acquisition of CAHA in 2003, we issued to each of its selling principals one special preferred voting share for each SCU they received. Our special preferred voting shares have no economic interest, but entitle each holder to one vote per special preferred voting share on all matters subject to a vote of the holders of our common shares. The selling principals of CAHA who received special preferred voting shares include Marc D. Schnitzer, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and a subsidiary of TRCLP. As of the date of this filing: · C-III Capital Partners LLC, the Purchaser in the March 2010 Restructuring, holds Special Series A Shares that are convertible into 139.7 million common shares; · Natixis holds Special Series A Shares that are convertible into 17.8 million common shares; · TRCLP, its owners and TRCLP affiliates hold 10.2 million of the outstanding SCUs and 1.2 million common shares; - 16 - · Former executives of our Company held 1.5 million of the outstanding SCUs. These SCUs are not subject to lock-up agreements and may be converted to common shares at any time. As such, if they vote as a block, such shareholders will have significant voting power on all matters submitted to a vote of our common shareholders. Also, because Mr. Schnitzer serves as our managing trustee, there are ongoing conflicts of interest when we are required to determine whether or not to take actions to enforce our rights under the various agreements entered into in connection with the CAHA acquisition. While any material decisions involving Mr. Schnitzer are subject to the vote of a majority of our independent trustees, such decisions may create conflicts between us and Mr. Schnitzer. No assurance can be given that our shareholders will be entitled to the same limitation on personal liability as stockholders of private corporations for profit We are governed by the laws of the State of Delaware. Under our trust agreement and the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, as amended (“Delaware Act”), our shareholders will be entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. In general, stockholders of Delaware corporations are not personally liable for the payment of corporate debts and obligations, and are liable only to the extent of their investment in the Delaware corporation. However, a shareholder may be obligated to make certain payments provided for in our trust agreement and bylaws. The properties securing our investments are dispersed in numerous states and the District of Columbia. 60;In jurisdictions which have not adopted legislative provisions regarding statutory trusts similar to those of the Delaware Act, questions exist as to whether such jurisdictions would recognize a statutory trust, absent a state statute, and whether a court in such jurisdiction would recognize the Delaware Act as controlling. If not, a court in such jurisdiction could hold that our shareholders are not entitled to the limitation of liability set forth in our trust agreement and the Delaware Act and, as a result, are personally liable for our debts and obligations. Our anti-takeover provisions may discourage third-party proposals Certain provisions of our trust agreement may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our Company. This could inhibit a change in control of our Company under circumstances that could give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over then-prevailing market prices. Such provisions include the following: Additional Classes and Series of Shares Our trust agreement permits our Board of Trustees to issue additional classes or series of beneficial interests and to establish the preferences and rights of any such securities. Thus, our Board of Trustees could authorize the issuance of beneficial interests with terms and conditions which could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction (see There are possible adverse effects arising from potential future issuance of shares above). In connection with the March 2010 Restructuring, the Board of Trustees authorized a rights plan for this purpose as described in Note 32 to the consolidated financial statements. Staggered Board Our Board of Trustees is divided into three classes of managing trustees. The terms of the first, second and third classes will expire in 2011, 2012 and 2010, respectively. Managing trustees for each class will be chosen for a three-year term upon the expiration of the current class’ term. The use of a staggered board makes it more difficult for a third-party to acquire control over us. If we had to register under the Investment Company Act, there could be negative consequences to our investment strategy Neither we nor our subsidiaries are registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”) and we may not be able to conduct our activities as we currently do if we were required to so register. At all times, we intend to conduct our activities, and those of our subsidiaries, so as not to become regulated as an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act. Even if we are not an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we could be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act if a subsidiary of ours were deemed to be an investment company. There are a number of possible exemptions from registration under the Investment Company Act that we believe apply to us and our subsidiaries and which we believe make it possible for us not to be subject to registration under the Investment Company Act. For example, the Investment Company Act exempts entities that are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate,” which we refer to as “qualifying interests.” Under current interpretations by the SEC staff, one of the ways in which our subsidiaries can qualify for this exemption is to maintain at least 55% of their assets directly in qualifying interests and the balance in real estate-type interests. We believe our subsidiaries can rely on this exemption or another exemption from registration. - 17 - The requirement that our subsidiaries maintain 55% of their assets in qualifying interests (or satisfy another exemption from registration) may inhibit our ability to acquire certain kinds of assets or to securitize additional interests in the future. If any of our subsidiaries fail to qualify for exemption from registration as an investment company and we, in turn, are required to register as an investment company, our ability to maintain our financing strategies would be substantially reduced, and we would be unable to conduct our business as described herein. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 