Item 1A: Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Sources of Financing and Liquidity If we do not restructure or obtain additional financing to satisfy our substantial debt obligations, we may not be able to continue as a going concern or we may be unable to avoid filing for bankruptcy protection. On December 31, 2008, we had $1.9 billion in total outstanding indebtedness including, but not limited to, approximately $105.3 million in principal outstanding related to our 5.25% convertible senior subordinated notes that mature on May 7, 2009 (the “5.25% Convertible Notes”), $70.8 million under the 2006 Revolving Credit Sub-Facility (defined below) that matures in February 2010, $160.0 million in principal outstanding related to our 4.25% convertible senior subordinated notes redeemable at the holder’s option on November 30, 2010 (the “4.25% Convertible Notes”) and $275.0 million in principal outstanding related to our 8.625% senior subordinated notes due August 2013 (the “8.625% Notes”). On February 11, 2009, we announced that we hired Moelis & Company as financial advisor to assist us in evaluating alternatives to enhance liquidity and address our debt obligations coming due in 2009 and 2010. This comprehensive evaluation involves, among other things, amending the 2006 Revolving Credit Sub-Facility (as defined below) that matures on February 17, 2010 and restructuring the 5.25% Convertible Notes and/or the 4.25% Convertible Notes. No assurance can be given that we will have sufficient time to implement any alternatives resulting from this evaluation before May 7, 2009 to avoid a payment default under the 5.25% Convertible Notes. Such a default could cause a default under our other material indebtedness. We have no commitment or agreement with respect to any transactions as of the date of the filing of this Form 10-K and there can be no assurance that any transaction will be completed. If we are unable to restructure these upcoming debt obligations, we may not be able to continue our operations and we may be unable to avoid filing for bankruptcy protection and/or have an involuntary bankruptcy case filed against us. As a result, there is doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Based on current estimates, we may be in default under certain covenants of our 2006 Credit Facility and other indebtedness in 2009. Based on the near-term maturity of our 5.25% Convertible Notes if we do not restructure our 5.25% Convertible Notes on or prior to May 7, 2009, we believe we will violate covenants under the 2006 Credit Facility, other outstanding indebtedness and agreements related to many of our facility operating leases. Although we have received amendments and modifications to these debt and operating lease agreements in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain amendments and/or modifications to avoid or cure events of default in the future. Our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in its audit report on our 2008 Consolidated Financial Statements that indicated there is an uncertainty that we will remain in compliance with certain covenants in our debt agreements and that this uncertainty raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The issuance of a “going concern” explanatory paragraph by our independent registered public accounting firm does, by itself, violate a separate covenant of our revolving credit facility with Bank of America, NA, as administrative agent, and a syndicate of commercial banks and commercial finance entities (the “2006 Credit Facility”). However, on March 31, 2009, we executed an amendment to the 2006 Credit Facility which resulted in no default arising by virtue of the “going concern” explanatory paragraph through May 4, 2009 and, as a result, we are in compliance with the covenants in the 2006 Credit Facility as of the date of this filing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate an extension of the amendment beyond May 4, 2009. In connection with the amendment to the 2006 Credit Agreement, we agreed to higher pricing terms and other concessions to the lenders. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” In addition, on March 12, 2009, we amended a guaranty and subordination agreement with the landlord of many of our facility leases. This amendment adjusted the calculation of the consolidated fixed charge coverage 13 Table of Contents ratio contained in the original guaranty and subordination agreement and added two additional financial covenants, a consolidated liquidity ratio covenant and a consolidated total senior secured debt to EBITDA ratio covenant. We continue to explore options related to our debt obligations with the assistance of our financial advisor. We are currently in discussions with our senior secured lenders to amend our 2006 Credit Facility to, among other things, avoid potential defaults under that facility and permit the restructuring of our other outstanding debt obligations. If we are unable to restructure our debt obligations, we may not have funds available to repay the $105.3 million principal amount of our 5.25% Convertible Notes that mature on May 7, 2009. If we do not refinance or repay the 5.25% Convertible Notes on or before May 7, 2009, we will be in default under our 2006 Credit Facility and other material indebtedness, including our 4.25% Convertible Notes and our 8.625% Notes. In addition, absent further amendments to our 2006 Credit Facility, we may violate the fixed charge coverage ratio covenant in our 2006 Credit Facility as of the quarter ending June 30, 2009 and be in default of the terms of that facility, which would otherwise mature in February 2010. Finally, we are evaluating restructuring options for $160.0 million principal amount outstanding of 4.25% Convertible Notes that we may be required to repurchase at the option of the holders on November 30, 2010. Although we will attempt to restructure these debt obligations to avoid events of default under one or more of these arrangements, we cannot assure our investors that we will succeed in these efforts. A default under one or more of our debt arrangements, including the 2006 Credit Facility, could cause cross defaults of other debt, lease facilities and operating agreements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and operations and raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our significant indebtedness and near-term debt maturities could materially adversely affect our financial health, limit our ability to finance future acquisitions and capital expenditures and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. As of December 31, 2008, our total outstanding indebtedness was approximately $1.9 billion, including the following: • $70.8 million under the 2006 Revolving Credit Sub-Facility (as defined below), classified as current; • $1,120.5 million under the secured new and used inventory floor plan facilities, including $199.5 million classified as liabilities associated with assets held for sale; • $105.1 million in 5.25% Convertible Notes representing $105.3 million in aggregate principal amount outstanding less unamortized discount of approximately $0.2 million; • $158.4 million in 4.25% Convertible Notes, classified as current, representing $160.0 million in aggregate principal amount outstanding less unamortized discount of approximately $1.6 million; • $273.1 million in 8.625% Notes, classified as current, representing $275.0 million in aggregate principal amount outstanding less unamortized net discount of approximately $1.9 million; • $114.4 million of mortgage notes, representing $114.1 million in aggregate principal amount plus unamortized premium of approximately $0.3 million, due from June, 2013 to September, 2028, classified as current, with a weighted average interest rate of 5.3%; and • $29.6 million of other secured debt, classified as current, representing $26.4 million in aggregate principal amount plus unamortized premium of approximately $3.2 million. As of December 31, 2008, we had $141.0 million available for additional borrowings under the 2006 Revolving Credit Sub-Facility based on the borrowing base calculation on that date, which is affected by 14 Table of Contents numerous factors including eligible asset balances, the market value of certain collateral and historical consolidated EBITDA (as defined). We are also able to borrow under our 2006 Revolving Credit Sub-Facility (as defined below) only if we are in compliance with our financial and other covenants and all of our representations and warranties contained in the Revolving Credit Sub-Facility are true on the date of borrowing. Based on the most recent amendment to the 2006 Credit Facility, we can only use proceeds from borrowings for ordinary course of business expenditures. We also have additional capacity under new and used inventory floor plan facilities. In addition, the indentures relating to our 8.625% Notes, 5.25% Convertible Notes, 4.25% Convertible Notes and our other debt instruments allow us to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, as long as we are in compliance with the terms thereunder. We refer to the $141.0 million of availability under a revolving credit facility (“2006 Revolving Credit Sub-Facility”), up to $775.6 million in borrowing availability for new vehicle inventory floor plan financing and up to $193.9 million in borrowing availability for used vehicle inventory floor plan financing collectively as our “2006 Credit Facility”. In addition, the majority of our dealership properties are leased under long-term operating lease arrangements that generally have initial terms of fifteen to twenty years with one or two ten-year renewal options. These operating leases require compliance of financial and operating covenants similar to those under our 2006 Credit Facility, monthly payments of rent that may fluctuate based on interest rates and local consumer price indices. The total future minimum lease payments related to these operating leases and certain equipment leases are significant and are disclosed in the notes to our financial statements under the heading “Commitments and Contingencies” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have approximately $1.5 billion of debt that mature or which holders may force us to repay in 2009 and 2010. This leverage could have important consequences to the holders of our securities, including the following: • we may be forced to sell certain assets at prices below where we might otherwise consider selling such assets in order to repay current maturities of debt; • our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, capital expenditures, working capital or general corporate purposes or to refinance existing indebtedness may be impaired in the future; • a substantial portion of our current cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and rents under long-term operating leases, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations and other purposes; • some of our borrowings and facility leases are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increasing interest rates; • significant additional equity could be issued in connection with restructuring our 2009 and 2010 debt obligations; • future interest rates may be higher than those currently applicable to our outstanding debt; • the indebtedness outstanding under our 2006 Credit Facility and other floor plan facilities are secured by a pledge of substantially all the assets of our dealerships, which may limit our ability to borrow money from other sources; and • we may be substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a relative competitive disadvantage and make us more vulnerable to changing market conditions and regulations. In addition, our debt agreements contain numerous covenants that limit our discretion with respect to certain business matters, including mergers or acquisitions, paying dividends, incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or disposing of assets. These covenants may become more restrictive as a result of refinancing in the current environment. It is likely that, in connection with restructuring our 2006 Credit Facility, the covenants relevant to these matters will be significantly more restrictive to our business. 15 Table of Contents An acceleration of our obligation to repay all or a substantial portion of our outstanding indebtedness or lease obligations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our 2006 Credit Facility, the indenture governing our 8.625% Notes and many of our facility operating leases contain numerous financial and operating covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the applicable agreement or indenture. If a default were to occur, we may be unable to adequately finance our operations and the value of our common stock would be materially adversely affected because of acceleration and cross default. In addition, a default under one agreement or indenture could result in a default and acceleration of our repayment obligations under the other agreements or indentures, including the indentures governing our outstanding 5.25% Convertible Notes, 4.25% Convertible Notes and the 8.625% Notes, under the cross default provisions in those agreements or indentures. If a cross default were to occur, we may not be able to pay our debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. Even if new financing were available, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. As a result of this risk, we could be forced to take actions that we otherwise would not take, or not take actions that we otherwise might take, in order to comply with the covenants in these agreements and indentures. Our ability to make interest and principal payments when due to holders of our debt securities depends upon our future performance. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and other expenses will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, domestic and foreign economic conditions, the regulatory environment and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt as it becomes due, we may be required to refinance the debt, sell assets or sell shares of our stock on terms that we do not find attractive, if it can be done at all. Further, our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to the 2006 Credit Facility and the indentures pertaining to our outstanding notes could result in a default under these agreements that would prevent us from borrowing under the 2006 Revolving Credit Sub-Facility, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make interest and principal payments when due to holders of our debt securities depends upon the receipt of sufficient funds from our subsidiaries. Substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by our subsidiaries and substantially all of our consolidated cash flow and net income are generated by our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our cash flow and ability to service debt depends to a substantial degree on the results of operations of our subsidiaries and upon the ability of our subsidiaries to provide us with cash. We may receive cash from our subsidiaries in the form of dividends, loans or otherwise. We may use this cash to service our debt obligations or for working capital. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to distribute cash to us or to make funds available to service debt. In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make loans to us are subject to contractual limitations under the floor plan facilities, minimum net capital requirements under manufacturer franchise agreements and laws of the state in which a subsidiary is organized and depend to a significant degree on the results of operations of our subsidiaries and other business considerations. In addition, if we sell a dealership subsidiary, our cash flows will decline and, consequently, the sale of a significant portion of our dealership subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. We may need to sell certain assets to raise capital in connection with restructuring our 2009 and 2010 maturities. We may need to sell certain assets including dealerships and subsidiaries in order to satisfy our 2009 and 2010 debt obligations. We may determine to sell profitable dealerships that we may otherwise want to retain. There are no assurances that we will be able to sell such assets on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, in the most recent amendment to the 2006 Credit Facility, we agreed that net proceeds from certain assets sales until May 4, 2009 would be used to repay loans made under the 2006 Credit Facility. The sale of profitable assets will reduce our profitability in future periods. 16 Table of Contents We depend on the performance of sublessees to offset costs related to certain of our lease agreements. In most cases when we sell a dealership franchise, the buyer of the franchise will sublease the dealership property from us, but we are not released from the underlying lease obligation to the primary landlord. We rely on the sublease income from the buyer to offset the expense incurred related to our obligation to pay the primary landlord. We also rely on the buyer to maintain the property in accordance with the terms of the sublease (which in most cases mirror the terms of the lease we have with the primary landlord). Although we assess the financial condition of a buyer at the time we sell the franchise, and seek to obtain guarantees of the buyer’s sublease obligation from the stockholders or affiliates of the buyer, the financial condition of the buyer and/or the sublease guarantors may deteriorate over time. In the event the buyer does not perform under the terms of the sublease agreement (due to the buyer’s financial condition or other factors), we may not be able to recover amounts owed to us under the terms of the sublease agreement or the related guarantees. Our operating results, financial condition and cash flows may be materially adversely affected if sublessees do not perform their obligations under the terms of the sublease agreements. Our use of hedging transactions could limit our gains and result in financial losses. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in cash flow due to interest rate fluctuations, we have entered into, and in the future expect to enter into, derivative instruments (or hedging agreements). No hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates, As of December 31, 2008 Sonic had interest rate swap agreements to effectively convert a portion of its LIBOR-based variable rate debt to a fixed rate. See “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” under Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, we settled our $100 million notional, pay 5.002% and $100 million notional, pay 5.319% swaps with a payment to the counterparty of $16.5 million. We generally intend to hedge as much of the interest rate risk as management determines is in our best interests given the cost of such hedging transactions. Our hedging transactions expose us to certain risks and financial losses, including, among other things: • counterparty credit risk; • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which we seek protection; • the duration of the amount of the hedge may not match the duration or amount of the related liability; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting rules to reflect changes in fair-value. Downward adjustments, or “mark-to-market losses,” would reduce our stockholders’ equity. A failure on our part to effectively hedge against interest rate changes may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Such issuances may dilute the value of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We believe we will require additional capital in 2009 and/or 2010 to (i) address the 2009 and 2010 debt obligations discussed above; (ii) expand our business and increase revenues; (iii) add liquidity in response to continued negative economic conditions; and (iv) meet unexpected liquidity needs caused by industry volatility and/or uncertainty. To the extent that our existing capital and borrowing capabilities are insufficient to meet these requirements and cover any losses, we will need to raise additional funds through debt or equity financings, 17 Table of Contents including offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock or rights to acquire our common stock or curtail our growth and reduce our assets or restructure arrangements with existing security holders. Any equity or debt financing, or additional borrowings, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity financings could result in dilution to our stockholders, and the securities issued in future financings may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms if and when needed, we may not be able to take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. We may need to issue significant amounts of equity to the holders of our 2009 and 2010 debt obligations in connection with any debt restructuring. Because of the currently depressed price of our common stock, if we raise funds through an equity offering, we would need to issue a large amount of common stock to raise a significant amount of cash, which will be dilutive, will decrease the ownership percentage of current outstanding stockholders and may result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Any large issuance may also result in a change in control of the Company which could result in a default under our debt instruments or make such debt instruments effectively due and payable. Our depressed stock price could jeopardize our listing on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), affect our ability to raise equity in the future and enable the holders of our 4.25% Convertible Notes to require us to redeem their 4.25% Convertible Notes. Current conditions in both the capital markets as well as in the automotive retailing industry have depressed the value of our common stock. At December 31, 2008, our common stock closed at $3.98 per share and we had a market capitalization of $159.6 million, representing a 79% and 80% decline in our stock price and market capitalization, respectively, from December 31, 2007. As of March 16, 2009, our common stock closed at $1.28 per share and we had a market capitalization of approximately $51.3 million. NYSE rules require, among other things, that the average closing price of our Class A common stock be not less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30-day period or the average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30-day trading period be more than $25.0 million. During two consecutive days during the month of March 2009, our stock traded at levels below $1 per share. Although the NYSE has temporarily suspended or modified these listing standards, we cannot assure you that we will comply with these and other listing standards in the future. If we do not satisfy such listing standards our Class A common stock could be delisted from the NYSE and traded only in the over–the-counter market. This could limit our ability to raise new equity capital in the future and cause our existing equity securities to trade at lower values, and would give holders of our 4.25% Convertible Notes the right to require us to repurchase the 4.25% Convertible Notes. Such a repayment event could have a material adverse effect on our business and our liquidity. Risks Related to Our Relationships with Vehicle Manufacturers Our operations may be adversely affected if one or more of our manufacturer franchise agreements is terminated or not renewed. Each of our dealerships operates under a franchise agreement with the applicable automobile manufacturer or distributor. Without a franchise agreement, we cannot obtain new vehicles from a manufacturer. As a result, we are significantly dependent on our relationships with these manufacturers. Manufacturers exercise a great degree of control over the operations of our dealerships through the franchise agreements. The franchise agreements govern, among other things, our ability to purchase vehicles from the manufacturer and to sell vehicles to customers. Each of our franchise agreements provides for termination or non-renewal for a variety of causes, including certain changes in the financial condition of the dealerships and any unapproved change of ownership or management. Manufacturers may also have a right of first refusal if we seek to sell dealerships. 18 Table of Contents Actions taken by manufacturers to exploit their superior bargaining position in negotiating the terms of franchise agreements or renewals of these agreements or otherwise could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We cannot guarantee you that any of our existing franchise agreements will be renewed or that the terms and conditions of such renewals will be favorable to us. Our sales volume and profit margin on each sale may be materially adversely affected if manufacturers discontinue or change their incentive programs. Our dealerships depend on the manufacturers for certain sales incentives, warranties and other programs that are intended to promote and support dealership new vehicle sales. Manufacturers routinely modify their incentive programs in response to changing market conditions. Some of the key incentive programs include: • customer rebates or below market financing on new vehicles; • employee pricing; • dealer incentives on new vehicles; • manufacturer floor plan interest and advertising assistance; • warranties on new and used vehicles; and • sponsorship of used vehicle sales by authorized new vehicle dealers. Manufacturers frequently offer incentives to potential customers. A reduction or discontinuation of a manufacturer’s incentive programs may materially adversely impact vehicle demand and affect our profitability. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2008, General Motors delayed payments related to certain incentive programs. In the event this delay was longer or of greater scale, the effect on our overall liquidity could have been material. Our sales volume may be materially adversely affected if manufacturer captives change their customer financing programs or are unable to provide floor plan financing. One of the primary finance sources used by consumers in connection with the purchase of a new or used vehicle is the manufacturer captive finance companies. These captive finance companies rely, to a certain extent, on the public debt markets to provide the capital necessary to support their financing programs. In addition, the captive finance companies will occasionally change their loan underwriting criteria to alter the risk profile of their loan portfolio. A limitation or reduction of available consumer financing for these or other reasons could affect a consumer’s ability to purchase a vehicle, and thus, could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume. For example, for a period of time in the fourth quarter, GMAC stated they would not make loans to customers with FICO credit scores below 700. If this continues or if consumer credit is further restricted, the adverse effect on our overall liquidity could be material. Our parts and service sales volume and profitability are dependent on manufacturer warranty programs. Franchised automotive retailers perform service work and sell replacement parts on vehicles covered by warranties issued by the automotive manufacturer. Dealerships which perform work covered by a manufacturer warranty are reimbursed at rates established by the manufacturer. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 18.6% of our parts and service revenue was for work covered by manufacturer warranties. To the extent a manufacturer reduces the labor rates or markup of replacement parts for such warranty work, our fixed operations sales volume and profitability could be adversely affected. We depend on manufacturers to supply us with sufficient numbers of popular and profitable new models. Manufacturers typically allocate their vehicles among dealerships based on the sales history of each dealership. Supplies of popular new vehicles may be limited by the applicable manufacturer’s production 19 Table of Contents capabilities. Popular new vehicles that are in limited supply typically produce the highest profit margins. We depend on manufacturers to provide us with a desirable mix of popular new vehicles. Our operating results may be materially adversely affected if we do not obtain a sufficient supply of these vehicles. Adverse conditions affecting one or more key manufacturers may negatively impact our profitability. During the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 82.1% of our new vehicle revenue was derived from the sale of new vehicles manufactured by BMW, Honda (including Acura), Toyota (including Lexus), Mercedes, General Motors (including Cadillac) and Ford. Our success depends to a great extent on these manufacturers’: • financial condition; • marketing; • vehicle design; • publicity concerning a particular manufacturer or vehicle model; • production capabilities; • management; • reputation; and • labor relations. Events such as labor strikes that may adversely affect a manufacturer may also adversely affect us. In particular, labor strikes at a manufacturer that continue for a substantial period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, the delivery of vehicles from manufacturers at a time later than scheduled, which may occur particularly during periods of new product introductions, could limit sales of those vehicles during those periods. This has been experienced at some of our dealerships from time to time. Adverse conditions affecting these and other important aspects of manufacturers’ operations and public relations may adversely affect our ability to sell their automobiles and, as a result, significantly and detrimentally affect our profitability. In recent years and particularly in the latter half of 2008, the financial condition and operating results of Ford, General Motors and Chrysler have deteriorated significantly. As of December 31, 2008, we owned 13 Ford franchises (including Volvo), 38 General Motors franchises (including Cadillac, Saab, Saturn, Chevrolet, Buick, GMC, Hummer and Pontiac) and 9 Chrysler franchises (including Jeep, Dodge and Chrysler). If the financial condition and operating results of Ford, General Motors or Chrysler do not improve or if the U.S. government discontinues or limits aid to these manufacturers, it is possible that each manufacturer could file for bankruptcy protection. Such a bankruptcy filing by any of Ford, General Motors or Chrysler could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, financial condition or cash flows in general and our domestic brand dealerships specifically. 20 Table of Contents The following reflects certain balance sheet data regarding our General Motors, Ford (including Volvo) and Chrysler assets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007: December 31, 2007 2008 (dollars in millions) General Motors New Vehicle Inventory $ 173.7 $ 182.0 Parts Inventory 13.3 12.5 Factory Receivables 12.3 11.9 Franchise Assets 38.8 17.2 Ford (including Volvo) New Vehicle Inventory 96.9 83.3 Parts Inventory 6.9 5.2 Factory Receivables 5.9 5.0 Franchise Assets 3.5 2.2 Chrysler New Vehicle Inventory 13.0 9.3 Parts Inventory 1.3 1.0 Factory Receivables 0.4 0.3 Franchise Assets 0.5 — In addition, we rely on the manufacturer captive finance companies of General Motors, Ford and Chrysler for new vehicle floor plan financing. The bankruptcy of any of these domestic manufacturers could result in an attempt by the related captive finance company to terminate our floor plan financing, which would have a material adverse impact on our operations and liquidity position. Manufacturer stock ownership restrictions may impair our ability to maintain or renew franchise agreements or issue additional equity. Some of our franchise agreements prohibit transfers of any ownership interests of a dealership and, in some cases, its parent, without prior approval of the applicable manufacturer. A number of manufacturers impose restrictions on the transferability of our Class A common stock and our ability to maintain franchises if a person acquires a significant percentage of the voting power of our common stock. Our existing franchise agreements could be terminated if a person or entity acquires a substantial ownership interest in us or acquires voting power above certain levels without the applicable manufacturer’s approval. Violations of these levels by an investor are generally outside of our control and may result in the termination or non-renewal of existing franchise agreements or impair our ability to negotiate new franchise agreements for dealerships we acquire in the future. In addition, if we cannot obtain any requisite approvals on a timely basis, we may not be able to issue additional equity or otherwise raise capital on terms acceptable to us. These restrictions may also prevent or deter a prospective acquirer from acquiring control of us. This could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and also may limit our ability to restructure our debt obligations. The current holders of our Class B common stock maintain voting control over us. However, we are unable to prevent our stockholders from transferring shares of our common stock, including transfers by holders of the Class B common stock. If such transfer results in a change in control, it could result in the termination or non-renewal of one or more of our existing franchise agreements, the triggering of provisions in our agreements with certain manufacturers requiring us to sell our dealerships franchised with such manufacturers and/or a default under our credit arrangements. 21 Table of Contents Our dealers depend upon vehicle sales and, therefore, their success depends in large part upon customer demand for the particular vehicles they carry. The success of our dealerships depends in large part on the overall success of the vehicle lines they carry. New vehicle sales generate the majority of our total revenue and lead to sales of higher-margin products and services such as finance, insurance, vehicle protection products and other aftermarket products, and parts and service operations. Although we have sought to limit our dependence on any one vehicle brand and our parts and service operations and used vehicle sales may serve to offset some of this risk, we have focused our new vehicle sales operations in mid-line import and luxury brands. Our failure to meet a manufacturer’s customer satisfaction, financial and sales performance and facility requirements may adversely affect our ability to acquire new dealerships and our profitability. Many manufacturers attempt to measure customers’ satisfaction with their sales and warranty service experiences through manufacturer-determined CSI scores. The components of CSI vary from manufacturer to manufacturer and are modified periodically. Franchise agreements also may impose financial and sales performance standards. Under our agreements with certain manufacturers, a dealership’s CSI scores, sales and financial performance may be considered a factor in evaluating applications for additional dealership acquisitions. From time to time, some of our dealerships have had difficulty meeting various manufacturers’ CSI requirements or performance standards. We cannot assure you that our dealerships will be able to comply with these requirements in the future. A manufacturer may refuse to consent to an acquisition of one of its franchises if it determines our dealerships do not comply with its CSI requirements or performance standards, which could impair the execution of our acquisition strategy. In addition, we receive incentive payments from the manufacturers based, in part, on CSI scores, which could be materially adversely affected if our CSI scores decline. In addition, a manufacturer may condition its allotment of vehicles, participation in bonus programs, or acquisition of additional franchises upon our compliance with its facility standards. This may put us in a competitive disadvantage with other competing dealerships and may ultimately result in our decision to sell a franchise when we believe it may be difficult to recover the cost of the required investment to reach the manufacturer’s facility standards. If state dealer laws are repealed or weakened, our dealerships will be more susceptible to termination, non-renewal or renegotiation of their franchise agreements. State dealer laws generally provide that a manufacturer may not terminate or refuse to renew a franchise agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with written notice setting forth good cause and stating the grounds for termination or nonrenewal. Some state dealer laws allow dealers to file protests or petitions or attempt to comply with the manufacturer’s criteria within the notice period to avoid the termination or nonrenewal. Though unsuccessful to date, manufacturers’ lobbying efforts may lead to the repeal or revision of state dealer laws. If dealer laws are repealed in the states in which we operate, manufacturers may be able to terminate our franchises without providing advance notice, an opportunity to cure or a showing of good cause. Without the protection of state dealer laws, it may also be more difficult for our dealers to renew their franchise agreements upon expiration. In addition, these laws restrict the ability of automobile manufacturers to directly enter the retail market in the future. However, the ability of a manufacturer to grant additional franchises is based on several factors which are not within our control. If manufacturers grant new franchises in areas near or within our existing markets, this could significantly impact our revenues and/or profitability. Further, if manufacturers obtain the ability to directly retail vehicles and do so in our markets, such competition could have a material adverse effect on us. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Acquisition Strategy Pursuant to the terms of the most recent amendment to the 2006 Credit Facility, our ability to make acquisitions is restricted. Pursuant to the most recent amendment to the 2006 Credit Facility, we are prohibited from making acquisitions. This restriction will continue until we either further amend or refinance the 2006 Credit Facility. We may be forced to sell dealerships in connection with such an amendment or restructuring. Without the ability to make acquisitions, our growth strategy will be limited. In addition, due to these restrictions, we may forfeit the opportunity to acquire profitable dealerships at attractive valuations and may forfeit the opportunity for additional franchise awards from manufacturers. We may not be able to capitalize on acquisition opportunities because our ability to obtain capital to fund these acquisitions is limited. We intend to finance our acquisitions with cash generated from operations, through issuances of our stock or debt securities and through borrowings under credit arrangements. We may not be able to obtain additional financing by issuing stock or debt securities due to the market price of our Class A common stock, overall market conditions or the need for manufacturer consent to the issuance of equity securities. Using cash to complete acquisitions could substantially limit our operating or financial flexibility. In addition, we are dependent to a significant extent on our ability to finance our new vehicle inventory with “floor plan financing.” Floor plan financing arrangements allow us to borrow money to buy a particular vehicle from the manufacturer and pay off the loan when we sell that particular vehicle. We must obtain new floor plan financing or obtain consents to assume existing floor plan financing in connection with our acquisition of dealerships. Substantially all the assets of our dealerships are pledged to secure the indebtedness under the 2006 Credit Facility and our separate floor plan indebtedness with lenders, including the captive finance subsidiaries of BMW, Chrysler, Ford, General Motors and Mercedes. These pledges may impede our ability to borrow from other sources. Moreover, because the identified manufacturer captive finance subsidiaries are either owned or affiliated with BMW, Mercedes, Chrysler, Ford, General Motors, Nissan and Toyota, respectively, any deterioration of our relationship with the particular captive finance subsidiary could adversely affect our relationship with the affiliated manufacturer, and vice-versa. Manufacturers’ restrictions on acquisitions could limit our future growth. Although we have currently suspended our plans to grow our business through acquisitions, we intend to grow through acquisitions in the future. We are required to obtain the approval of the applicable manufacturer before we can acquire an additional dealership franchise of that manufacturer. In determining whether to approve an acquisition, manufacturers may consider many factors such as our financial condition and CSI scores. Obtaining manufacturer approval of acquisitions also takes a significant amount of time, typically three to five months. We cannot assure you that manufacturers will approve future acquisitions or do so on a timely basis, which could impair the execution of our acquisition strategy. Certain manufacturers also limit the number of its dealerships that we may own, our national market share of that manufacturer’s products or the number of dealerships we may own in a particular geographic area. In addition, under an applicable franchise agreement or under state law, a manufacturer may have a right of first refusal to acquire a dealership that we seek to acquire. A manufacturer may condition approval of an acquisition on the implementation of material changes in our operations or extraordinary corporate transactions, facilities improvements or other capital expenditures. If we are unable or unwilling to comply with these conditions, we may be required to sell the assets of that manufacturer’s dealerships or terminate our franchise agreement. 23 Table of Contents Failure to effectively integrate acquired dealerships with our existing operations could adversely affect our future operating results. Our future operating results depend on our ability to integrate the operations of recently acquired dealerships, as well as dealerships we acquire in the future, with our existing operations. In particular, we need to integrate our management information systems, procedures and organizational structures, which can be difficult. Our growth strategy has focused on the pursuit of strategic acquisitions that either expand or complement our business. We cannot assure you that we will effectively and profitably integrate the operations of these dealerships without substantial costs, delays or operational or financial problems, due to: • the difficulties of managing operations located in geographic areas where we have not previously operated; • the management time and attention required to integrate and manage newly acquired dealerships; • the difficulties of assimilating and retaining employees; • the challenges of keeping customers; and • the challenge of retaining or attracting appropriate dealership management personnel. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not adequately anticipate all of the demands that growth through acquisitions will impose. In pursuing a strategy of acquiring other dealerships, we face risks commonly encountered with growth through acquisitions. These risks include, but are not limited to: • incurring significantly higher capital expenditures and operating expenses; • failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of acquired dealerships; • entering new markets with which we are unfamiliar; • potential undiscovered liabilities and operational difficulties at acquired dealerships; • disrupting our ongoing business; • diverting our management resources; • failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies; • impairing relationships with employees, manufacturers and customers as a result of changes in management; • increased expenses for accounting and computer systems, as well as integration difficulties; • failure to obtain a manufacturer’s consent to the acquisition of one or more of its dealership franchises or renew the franchise agreement on terms acceptable to us; and • incorrectly valuing entities to be acquired. We may not adequately anticipate all of the demands that growth will impose on our systems, procedures and structures. We may not be able to reinstitute our acquisition strategy without the costs of future acquisitions escalating. We have grown our business primarily through acquisitions. We may not be able to consummate any future acquisitions at acceptable prices and terms or identify suitable candidates. In addition, increased competition for 24 Table of Contents acquisition candidates could result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us and higher acquisition prices. The magnitude, timing, pricing and nature of future acquisitions will depend upon various factors, including: • the availability of suitable acquisition candidates; • competition with other dealer groups for suitable acquisitions; • the negotiation of acceptable terms with the seller and with the manufacturer; • our financial capabilities and ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms; • our stock price; and • the availability of skilled employees to manage the acquired companies. We may not be able to determine the actual financial condition of dealerships we acquire until after we complete the acquisition and take control of the dealerships. The operating and financial condition of acquired businesses cannot be determined accurately until we assume control. Although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding the operating and financial condition of the businesses we purchase, in light of the circumstances of each transaction, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual operating condition of these businesses. Similarly, many of the dealerships we acquire, including some of our largest acquisitions, do not have financial statements audited or prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We may not have an accurate understanding of the historical financial condition and performance of our acquired entities. Until we actually assume control of business assets and their operations, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired entities and their operations. Although O. Bruton Smith, our chairman and chief executive officer, and his affiliates have previously assisted us with obtaining financing, we cannot assure you that he or they will be willing or able to do so in the future. Our obligations under the 2006 Credit Facility are secured with a pledge of five million shares of Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Common Stock, a publicly traded owner and operator of automobile racing facilities. These shares of Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Common Stock are owned by Sonic Financial Corporation (“SFC”), an entity controlled by Mr. Smith. Presently, the $350.0 million borrowing limit of our 2006 Revolving Credit Sub-Facility is subject to a borrowing base calculation that is based, in part, on the value of the Speedway Motorsports shares pledged by SFC. Consequently, a withdrawal of this pledge by SFC or a significant decrease in the value of Speedway Motorsports common stock could reduce the amount we can borrow under the 2006 Revolving Credit Sub-Facility. In the past, Mr. Smith has also guaranteed additional indebtedness incurred to complete certain dealership acquisitions. Mr. Smith may not be willing or able to provide similar guarantees or credit support in the future. This could impair our ability to obtain acquisition financing on favorable terms. Risks Related to the Automotive Retail Industry Increasing competition among automotive retailers reduces our profit margins on vehicle sales and related businesses. Further, the use of the Internet in the car purchasing process could materially adversely affect us. Automobile retailing is a highly competitive business. Our competitors include publicly and privately owned dealerships, some of which are larger and have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Many of our competitors sell the same or similar makes of new and used vehicles that we offer in our markets at competitive prices. We do not have any cost advantage in purchasing new vehicles from manufacturers due to economies of scale or otherwise. In addition, the popularity of short-term vehicle leasing in the past few years has resulted, as 25 Table of Contents these leases expire, in a large increase in the number of late model used vehicles available in the market, which puts added pressure on new and used vehicle margins. We typically rely on advertising, merchandising, sales expertise, service reputation and dealership location to sell new vehicles. Our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected if manufacturers decide to enter the retail market directly. Our F&I business and other related businesses, which have higher margins than sales of new and used vehicles, are subject to strong competition from various financial institutions and other third parties. The Internet has become a significant part of the sales process in our industry. Customers are using the Internet to compare pricing for cars and related F&I services, which may further reduce margins for new and used cars and profits for related F&I services. If Internet new vehicle sales are allowed to be conducted without the involvement of franchised dealers, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, other franchise groups have aligned themselves with services offered on the Internet or are investing heavily in the development of their own Internet capabilities, which could materially adversely affect our business. Our franchise agreements do not grant us the exclusive right to sell a manufacturer’s product within a given geographic area. Our revenues or profitability could be materially adversely affected if any of our manufacturers award franchises to others in the same markets where we operate or if existing franchised dealers increase their market share in our markets. We may face increasingly significant competition as we strive to gain market share through acquisitions or otherwise. Our operating margins may decline over time as we expand into markets where we do not have a leading position. Our business will be harmed if overall consumer demand continues to suffer from a severe or sustained downturn. Our business is heavily dependent on consumer demand and preferences. Our revenues have been materially and adversely affected by the recent downturn in overall levels of consumer spending. We expect this downturn to continue through at least 2009. Retail vehicle sales are cyclical and historically have experienced periodic downturns characterized by oversupply and weak demand. These cycles are often dependent on general economic conditions and consumer confidence, as well as the level of discretionary personal income and credit availability. Economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on our retail business, particularly sales of new and used automobiles. In addition, severe or sustained increases in gasoline prices may lead to a reduction in automobile purchases or a shift in buying patterns from luxury and sport utility vehicle models (which typically provide high margins to retailers) to smaller, more economical vehicles (which typically have lower margins). A decline of available financing in the lending market has, and may continue to, adversely affect our vehicle sales volume. A significant portion of vehicle buyers, particularly in the used car market, finance their purchases of automobiles. Sub-prime lenders have historically provided financing for consumers who, for a variety of reasons including poor credit histories and lack of down payment, do not have access to more traditional finance sources. In the event lenders further tighten their credit standards or there is a further decline in the availability of credit in the lending market, the ability of these consumers to purchase vehicles could be limited which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and profitability. Our business may be adversely affected by import product restrictions and foreign trade risks that may impair our ability to sell foreign vehicles profitably. A significant portion of our new vehicle business involves the sale of vehicles, parts or vehicles composed of parts that are manufactured outside the United States. As a result, our operations are subject to customary risks of 26 Table of Contents importing merchandise, including fluctuations in the relative values of currencies, import duties, exchange controls, trade restrictions, work stoppages and general political and socio-economic conditions in other countries. The United States or the countries from which our products are imported may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quotas, duties or tariffs, which may affect our operations and our ability to purchase imported vehicles and/or parts at reasonable prices. The seasonality of our business magnifies the importance of second and third quarter operating results. Our business is subject to seasonal variations in revenues. In our experience, demand for automobiles is generally lower during the first and fourth quarters of each year. We therefore receive a disproportionate amount of revenues generally in the second and third quarters and expect our revenues and operating results to be generally lower in the first and fourth quarters. Consequently, if conditions surface during the second and third quarters that impair vehicle sales, such as higher fuel costs, depressed economic conditions or similar adverse conditions, our revenues for the year could be adversely affected. General Risks Related to Investing in Our Securities Concentration of voting power and anti-takeover provisions of our charter, bylaws, Delaware law and our dealer agreements may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control. Our common stock is divided into two classes with different voting rights. This dual class stock ownership allows the present holders of the Class B common stock to control us. Holders of Class A common stock have one vote per share on all matters. Holders of Class B common stock have 10 votes per share on all matters, except that they have only one vote per share on any transaction proposed or approved by the Board of Directors or a Class B common stockholder or otherwise benefiting the Class B common stockholders constituting a: • “going private” transaction; • disposition of substantially all of our assets; • transfer resulting in a change in the nature of our business; or • merger or consolidation in which current holders of common stock would own less than 50% of the common stock following such transaction. The holders of Class B common stock currently hold less than a majority of our outstanding common stock, but a majority of our voting power (which include O. Bruton Smith Sonic Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, his family members and entities they control). This may prevent or discourage a change of control of us even if the action was favored by holders of Class A common stock. Our charter and bylaws make it more difficult for our stockholders to take corporate actions at stockholders’ meetings. In addition, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units granted under our 1997 Stock Option Plan and 2004 Stock Incentive Plan become immediately exercisable or automatically vest upon a change in control. Delaware law also makes it difficult for stockholders who have recently acquired a large interest in a company to consummate a business combination transaction with the company against its directors’ wishes. Finally, restrictions imposed by our dealer agreements may impede or prevent any potential takeover bid. Generally, our franchise agreements allow the manufacturers the right to terminate the agreements upon a change of control of our company and impose restrictions upon the transferability of any significant percentage of our stock to any one person or entity who may be unqualified, as defined by the manufacturer, to own one of its dealerships. The inability of a person or entity to qualify with one or more of our manufacturers may prevent or seriously impede a potential takeover bid. In addition, provisions of our lending arrangements create an event of default on a change in control. These agreements, corporate governance documents and laws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or preventing stockholders from realizing a premium on the sale of their shares if we were acquired. 27 Table of Contents The outcome of legal and administrative proceedings we are or may become involved in could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and profitability. We are involved, and expect to continue to be involved, in numerous legal and administrative proceedings arising out of the conduct of our business, including regulatory investigations and private civil actions brought by plaintiffs purporting to represent a potential class or for which a class has been certified. Several private civil actions have been filed against Sonic Automotive, Inc. and several of our dealership subsidiaries that purport to represent classes of customers as potential plaintiffs and make allegations that certain products sold in the finance and insurance departments were done so in a deceptive or otherwise illegal manner. One of these private civil actions has been filed in South Carolina state court against Sonic Automotive, Inc. and 10 of our South Carolina subsidiaries. This group of plaintiffs’ attorneys has filed another one of these private civil class action lawsuits in state court in North Carolina seeking certification of a multi-state class of plaintiffs. The South Carolina state court action and the North Carolina state court action have since been consolidated into a single proceeding in private arbitration. The outcomes of the civil actions brought by plaintiffs purporting to represent a class of customers, as well as other pending and future legal proceedings arising out of the conduct of our business, including litigation with customers, employment related lawsuits, contractual disputes, class actions, purported class actions and actions brought by governmental authorities, cannot be predicted with certainty. An unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects. Our company is a defendant in the matter of Galura, et al. v. Sonic Automotive, Inc., a private civil action filed in the Circuit Court of Hillsborough County, Florida. In this action, originally filed on December 30, 2002, the plaintiffs allege that we and our Florida dealerships sold an antitheft protection product in a deceptive or otherwise illegal manner, and further sought representation on behalf of any customer of any of our Florida dealerships who purchased the antitheft protection product since December 30, 1998. The plaintiffs are seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief on behalf of this class of customers. In June 2005, the court granted the plaintiffs’ motion for certification of the requested class of customers, but the court has made no finding to date regarding actual liability in this lawsuit. We have subsequently filed a notice of appeal of the court’s class certification ruling with the Florida Court of Appeals. In April 2007, the Florida Court of Appeals affirmed a portion of the trial court’s class certification, and overruled a portion of the trial court’s class certification. We intend to continue our vigorous defense of this lawsuit, including the aforementioned appeal of the trial court’s class certification order, and to assert available defenses. However, an adverse resolution of this lawsuit could result in the payment of significant costs and damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business may be adversely affected by claims alleging violations of laws and regulations in our advertising, sales and finance and insurance activities. Our business is highly regulated. In the past several years, private plaintiffs and state attorney generals have increased their scrutiny of advertising, sales, and finance and insurance activities in the sale and leasing of motor vehicles. The conduct of our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding unfair, deceptive and/or fraudulent trade practices (including advertising, marketing, sales, insurance, repair and promotion practices), truth-in-lending, consumer leasing, fair credit practices, equal credit opportunity, privacy, insurance, motor vehicle finance, installment finance, closed-end credit, usury and other installment sales. Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law may be asserted against us or any of our dealers by individuals, either individually or through class actions, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations and proceedings. Such actions may expose us to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and criminal and civil fines and penalties, including suspension or revocation of our licenses and franchises to conduct dealership operations. 28 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by unfavorable conditions in our local markets, even if those conditions are not prominent nationally. Our performance is subject to local economic, competitive, weather and other conditions prevailing in geographic areas where we operate. We may not be able to expand geographically and any geographic expansion may not adequately insulate us from the adverse effects of local or regional economic conditions. In addition, due to the provisions and terms contained in our operating lease agreements, we may not be able to relocate a dealership operation to a more favorable location without incurring significant costs or penalties. The loss of key personnel and limited management and personnel resources could adversely affect our operations and growth. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management team, particularly our senior management, and service and sales personnel. Additionally, manufacturer franchise agreements may require the prior approval of the applicable manufacturer before any change is made in franchise general managers. We do not have employment agreements with certain members of our senior management team, our dealership managers and other key dealership personnel. Consequently, the loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, as we expand we may need to hire additional managers. The market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which we operate, particularly for general managers and sales and service personnel, is highly competitive and may subject us to increased labor costs during periods of low unemployment. The loss of the services of key employees or the inability to attract additional qualified managers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the lack of qualified management or employees employed by potential acquisition candidates may limit our ability to consummate future acquisitions. Governmental regulation and environmental regulation compliance costs may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations, such as local licensing requirements, retail financing and consumer protection laws and regulations, and wage-hour, anti-discrimination and other employment practices laws and regulations. Our facilities and operations are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety, including those governing wastewater discharges, air emissions, the operation and removal of underground and aboveground storage tanks, the use, storage, treatment, transportation, release, recycling and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated property or water. The violation of these laws and regulations can result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties against us or in a cease and desist order against our operations that are not in compliance. Our future acquisitions may also be subject to regulation, including antitrust reviews. We believe that we comply in all material respects with all laws and regulations applicable to our business, but future regulations may be more stringent and require us to incur significant additional compliance costs. Our past and present business operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations. We may be required by these laws to pay the full amount of the costs of investigation and/or remediation of contaminated properties, even if we are not at fault for disposal of the materials or if such disposal was legal at the time. Like many of our competitors, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, soil and groundwater contamination exists at certain of our properties. We cannot assure you that our other properties have not been or will not become similarly contaminated. In addition, we could become subject to potentially material new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities because of our acquisitions. 29 Table of Contents Potential conflicts of interest between us and our officers or directors could adversely affect our future performance. O. Bruton Smith serves as the chairman and chief executive officer of Speedway Motorsports. Accordingly, we compete with Speedway Motorsports for the management time of Mr. Smith. We have in the past and will likely in the future enter into transactions with Mr. Smith, entities controlled by Mr. Smith or our other affiliates. We believe that all of our existing arrangements with affiliates are as favorable to us as if the arrangements were negotiated between unaffiliated parties, although the majority of these transactions have neither been verified by third parties in that regard nor are likely to be so verified in the future. Potential conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us and our officers or directors in the enforcement, amendment or termination of arrangements existing between them. We may be subject to substantial withdrawal liability assessments in the future related to a multi-employer pension plan to which certain of our dealerships make contributions pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. Seven of our dealership subsidiaries in Northern California currently make fixed-dollar contributions to the Automotive Industries Pension Plan (the “AI Pension Plan”) pursuant to collective bargaining agreements between our subsidiaries and the International Association of Machinists (the “IAM”). The AI Pension Plan is a “multi-employer pension plan” as defined under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and our seven dealership subsidiaries are among approximately 120 automobile dealerships that make contributions to the AI Pension Plan pursuant to collective bargaining agreements with the IAM. In June 2006, we received information that the AI Pension Plan was substantially underfunded as of December 31, 2005. In July 2007, we received updated information that the AI Pension Plan continued to be substantially underfunded as of December 31, 2006, with the amount of such underfunding increasing versus year end 2005. In March 2008, the Board of Trustees of the AI Pension Plan notified participants, participating employers and local unions that the Plan’s actuary, in accordance with the requirements of the federal Pension Protection Act of 2006, had issued a certification that the AI Pension Plan is in Critical Status effective with the plan year commencing January 1, 2008. In conjunction with this finding, the Board of Trustees of the AI Pension Plan adopted a Rehabilitation Plan that implements reductions or eliminations of certain adjustable benefits that were previously available under the Plan (including some forms of early retirement benefits, and disability and death benefits), and also implements a requirement on all participating employers to increase employer contributions to the Plan for a seven year period commencing in 2013. Under applicable federal law, any employer contributing to a multiemployer pension plan that completely ceases participating in the plan while the plan is underfunded is subject to payment of such employer’s assessed share of the aggregate unfunded vested benefits of the plan. In certain circumstances, an employer can be assessed withdrawal liability for a partial withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan. In addition, if the financial condition of the AI Pension Plan were to continue to deteriorate to the point that the Plan is forced to terminate and be assumed by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the participating employers could be subject to assessments by the PBGC to cover the participating employers’ assessed share of the unfunded vested benefits. If any of these adverse events were to occur in the future, it could result in a substantial withdrawal liability assessment that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A change in historical experience and/or assumptions used to estimate reserves could have a material impact on our earnings. As described in Item 7 under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Use of Estimates and Critical Accounting Policies” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our estimates for finance, insurance and service contracts and insurance reserves are based on historical experience. Differences between actual results and our historical experiences and/or our assumptions could have a material impact on our earnings in the period of the change and in periods subsequent to the change. 30 Table of Contents A further impairment of our goodwill could have a material adverse impact on our earnings. Pursuant to applicable accounting pronouncements, we test goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We describe the process for testing goodwill more thoroughly in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in Item 7 under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Use of Estimates and Critical Accounting Policies.” If we determine that the amount of our goodwill is impaired at any point in time, we are required to reduce goodwill on our balance sheet. Based on the results of Sonic’s step one test as of December 31, 2008, we were required to complete step two of the impairment evaluation. Sonic recorded an estimated goodwill impairment charge in continuing operations of $786.5 million at December 31, 2008 and a $10.9 million charge related to franchises held for sale in discontinued operations. An estimate was recorded because we had not finalized the valuation of certain assets and liabilities that are necessary for us to complete our evaluation. We expect to complete this evaluation and finalize the amounts related to the impairment charge which will be reflected in our Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2009, with any adjustment to the estimate recorded at December 31, 2008 affecting the results of the first quarter of 2009. As of December 31, 2008, after recording this charge for impairment, our balance sheet reflected a carrying amount of approximately $481.9 million in goodwill (including goodwill classified as assets held for sale). If goodwill is further impaired based on a future impairment test, we will record another non-cash impairment charge that may also have a material adverse effect on our earnings for the period in which the impairment of goodwill occurs. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments On December 29, 2008, we received a comment letter from the staff (the “Staff”) at the SEC that it was performing a review of our SEC filings. In its review process, the Staff issued comments on certain of our filings under the Exchange Act, including our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, our Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on March 13, 2008 and our Form 10-Q for the nine month period ended September 30, 2008 and our Form 8-K filed on February 11, 2009. The unresolved Staff comments primarily focus on: • our goodwill impairment testing results and procedures, including our use of a discounted cash flow (“DCF”) model and other valuation methodologies; • our reconciliation of the results of our DCF model to our market capitalization as of September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2008. The process for our impairment testing is described in our periodic reports filed with the SEC. See, for example, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Use of Estimates and Critical Accounting Policies” for a discussion of our goodwill impairment testing methodology, Although we believe our procedures comply with applicable financial reporting/accounting requirements, we may be required to change these procedures or amend our previously filed reports filed pursuant to the Exchange Act as a result of the SEC’s review. Consequently, the information in this Form 10-K or our other earlier SEC filings may change and information in our future SEC filings may differ. 