Item 1A. Risk Factors Our Growth Strategy Depends Upon our Ability to Acquire and Successfully Integrate Additional Restaurants. During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 the Company acquired or opened a total of 32 restaurants. These acquisitions represent a significant increase in the number of restaurants operated by the Company and involve risks that could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, the failure to maintain adequate operating and financial control systems or unexpected difficulties encountered during assimilation of the acquired restaurants could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, acquired restaurants may be located in geographic markets in which the Company has limited or no operating experience. There can be no assurance that any acquisition will not materi ally and adversely affect the Company or that any such acquisition will enhance the Company’s business. Furthermore, the Company is unable to predict the likelihood of any additional acquisitions being proposed or completed in the near future. The Company intends to continue to pursue a strategy of moderate growth, primarily through acquisitions. The success of this strategy will depend in part on the ability of the Company to acquire additional restaurants or to convert acquired sites into restaurants. The success of the Company’s growth strategy is dependent upon numerous factors, including the availability of suitable acquisition opportunities, the availability of appropriate financing, and general economic conditions. The Company must compete with other restaurant operators for acquisitions and with other restaurant operators, retail stores, companies and developers for desirable sites. Many of these entities have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. Many of its acquired restauran ts may be located in geographic markets in which the Company has limited or no operating experience. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify, negotiate and consummate acquisitions or that acquired restaurants or converted restaurants can be operated profitably and successfully integrated into the Company’s operations. A strategy of growth through acquisitions requires access to significant capital resources. If the Company determines to make a sizeable acquisition, the Company may be required to obtain approval of creditors, or to sell additional equity or debt securities, or to obtain additional credit facilities. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to the Company’s stockholders. At present, the Company has only limited availability under its Credit Facility which expires on January 31, 2012. Loans to third parties involve risk of non-payment. Since inception, the Company’s acquisition strategy has, in certain circumstances, incorporated loans to sellers to facilitate certain transactions. In most cases, these loans are secured and include, as part of terms and conditions, the Company’s right to convert the loan into ownership of the restaurants. Also, certain of these loans contain favorable to the Company interest rates and repayment terms if the loans are not converted to ownership for one or more reasons. This financing strategy entails significant risk. Currently, the Company has two loans receivable outstanding and both are in default. T he Company has provided a reserve of $289,000 for the North’s Restaurant, Inc. note receivable based on a decline in value of the note’s collateral. A change in the financial condition of specific restaurant companies or in overall industry trends may result in future adjustments to Company estimates of recoverability of these receivables. Operating Results can be Adversely Impacted by the Failure to Renew Facility Leases. The majority of the Company’s facilities are leased. Certain of these leases contain limited or no renewal options and other leases contain escalating or fair market renewal clauses. There can be no assurance that these facility leases can be renewed or if they are renewed, can be done so at lease rates that permit the restaurant to be operated at a profit. Dependence Upon and Restrictions Resulting from HomeTown Franchise Agreements. The Company operates its HomeTown Buffet Restaurants through a wholly-owned, independently capitalized subsidiary. This subsidiary is party to franchise agreements with the franchisor, HomeTown Buffet. As of January 25, 2010 the Company operated six HomeTown Buffet Restaurants and as of April 30, 2010 operated five restaurants. The performance of the HomeTown Buffet restaurants is directly related to the success of the HomeTown Buffet restaurant system. On January 22, 2008 Buffets Holdings, Inc., parent of the Company’s franchisor, filed for Chapter 11 reorganization. The success of the HomeTown Buffet restaurants depends in part on the effectiveness of the HomeTown franchisor’s marketing efforts, new product development initiatives, building retrofit designs, quality assurance and other operational programs over which the Company has little or no control. Furthermore, the Company cannot open new HomeTown Buffets without the permission of the franchisor. 5 In recent years HomeTown Buffet restaurants have not performed well. The Company’s management believes this is due to the franchisor’s financial difficulties and because the franchisor has not permitted the Company to develop new restaurants. The lack of investment in the brand on the part of the franchisor and the franchisor’s unwillingness to permit the Company to develop new locations has contributed to significant declines in restaurant level revenue and profitability. The Company has closed a number of HomeTown Buffet restaurants and has determined that it would make no further capital contributions to the independently capitalized subsidiary. While the franchisor’s bankruptcy and unwillingness to permit development were contributors to the dec line in restaurant level revenue and profitability, the recent decline in economic activity, particularly in the Arizona and New Mexico markets, necessitated the closures of five HomeTown Buffet restaurants in fiscal 2010. The Company closed another Hometown Buffet restaurant in early fiscal 2011 and also may close additional HomeTown Buffet restaurants in the future. Increases in Menu Prices in Response to Enacted Minimum Wage Increases. The Company’s profitability is sensitive to increases in food, labor and other operating costs that cannot always be passed on to its guests in the form of higher prices. Minimum wage increases took effect in states where the Company’s restaurants are located July 2008, January 2009 and January 2010. These increases and potential future increases directly increase our labor costs and may indirectly increase other costs as higher wage costs for service and commodity suppliers are passed on to the Company. In connection with higher energy prices, commodity suppliers have passed on higher wholesale prices and higher transportation costs. ;In anticipation of these past and future increases, the Company has and will continue to attempt to increase menu prices in fiscal 2011 with the desire to maintain prior profitability. However, the Company cannot predict with any certainty that the menu price increases will be sufficient to maintain its current level of profitability. In addition, the increase in menu prices may adversely affect the volume of our sales reducing future revenues and profitability. The Company’s Quarterly Results are Likely to Fluctuate. The Company has in the past experienced, and expects to continue to experience, significant fluctuations in restaurant revenues and results of operations from quarter to quarter. In particular, the Company’s quarterly results can vary as a result of acquisitions and costs incurred to integrate newly acquired entities. Conversely, the Company’s restaurant revenue and results of operations can vary due to restaurant closures and associated costs connected with these closures. A number of the Company’s restaurants are located in areas which are susceptible to severe winter weather conditions or tropical storm patterns which may have a negative impact on customer traffic and restaurant revenues. Accordingly, the Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of its operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that such comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Seasonal and quarterly fluctuations can have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operation and financial condition. The Restaurant Industry is Highly Competitive. The Company competes on the basis of the quality and value of food products offered, price, service, location, ambiance and overall dining experience. As the Company and its principal competitors expand operations in various geographic areas, competition can be expected to intensify. Such intensified competition could increase the Company’s operating costs or adversely affect its revenues or operating margins. A number of competitors have been in existence longer than the Company and have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources and wider geographical diversity than does the Company. In addition, the restaurant industry has few non-economic barriers to entry and is affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions and market trends. The Company’s significant investment in, and long term commitment to, each of its restaurant sites limits its ability to respond quickly or effectively to changes in local competitive conditions or other changes that could affect the Company’s operations. The Restaurant Industry is Complex and Volatile. Food service businesses are often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions and demographic trends. The performance of individual restaurants may be adversely affected by factors such as traffic patterns, demographic considerations and the type, number and location of competing restaurants. Multi-unit food service businesses such as the Company’s can also be materially and adversely affected by publicity resulting from poor food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. The Company’s business could be adversely affected by terrorist attacks directed to ward the food supply chain or public concerns about the safety of the food supply chain. Dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh produce and groceries, subjects food service businesses such as the Company’s to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply, caused by adverse weather or other conditions, could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. The Company’s profitability is highly sensitive to increases in food, labor and other operating costs that cannot always be passed on to its guests in the form of higher prices or otherwise compensated for. In addition, unfavorable trends or developments concerning factors such as inflation, increased food, labor, employee benefits, including increases in hourly wage and unemployment tax rates utility and transportation costs, increases in the number and locations of competing restaurants, regional weather conditions and the availability of experienced management and hourly employees may also adv ersely affect the food service industry in general and the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations in particular. Changes in economic conditions affecting the Company’s guests could reduce traffic in some or all of the Company’s restaurants or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 The Company is Dependent on Its Key Personnel. The Company believes that its success depends in part on the services of its key executives, including Robert E. Wheaton, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President. The Company does not presently maintain key man life insurance and the loss of the services of Mr. Wheaton could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Restaurant Industry is Subject to Substantial Government Regulation. The restaurant industry is subject to federal, state and local government regulations, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food as well as building and zoning requirements. In addition, the Company is subject to laws governing its relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions and citizenship requirements. The failure to obtain or retain food licenses or an increase in the minimum wage rate, employee benefit costs or other costs associated with employees, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Effect of Certain Charter and Bylaw Provisions. Certain provisions of the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s Common Stock. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation allows the Company to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of currently undesignated preferred stock, to determine the powers, preferences, rights, qualifications and limitations or restrictions granted to or imposed on any un-issued series of that preferred stock, and to fix the number of shares constituting any such series and the designation of such series, without any vote or future action by the stockholders. The preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of the common stock. The Certificate of Incorporation also prohibits the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. The Company’s Bylaws require advance notice to nominate a director or take certain other actions. Such provisions may make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain corporate actions and could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. In addition, the Company has not elected to be excluded from the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which imposes certain limitations on transactions between a corporation and "interested" stockholders, as defined in such provisions. Possible Volatility of Stock Price. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The volume of trading in the market for the Company's common stock is limited, which may make it difficult to liquidate an investment and can increase price volatility. Due to changes in the balance of buy and sell orders and other factors, the price of the Company's common stock can change for reasons unrelated to the performance of the business of the Company. Fluctuations in the Company's operating results, failure of such operating results to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, changes in stock marke t’s analyst recommendations regarding the Company, the success or perceived success of competitors of the Company, as well as changes in general economic or market conditions and changes in the restaurant industry may also have a significant adverse affect on the market price of the common stock. Sale of a Substantial Number of Shares of Our Common Stock Could Cause the Market Price to Decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could substantially reduce the prevailing market price of our common stock. As of April 26, 2010, 3,213,075 shares of common stock were outstanding and 22,000 shares were issuable upon exercise of outstanding options at exercise price of $6.70. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that sales of shares of the Company’s common stock or the availability of such shares for sale will have on prevailing market prices. However, substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock could be sold in the public market, which may adversely affect prevailing market prices for the common stock. Control by One Principal Stockholder. Robert E. Wheaton, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President, currently beneficially owns approximately 45.3% of our total equity securities and possesses approximately 45.3% of the total voting power. Thus Mr. Wheaton has the ability to control or significantly influence all matters requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the election of our directors. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by Mr. Wheaton or other principal shareholders in the public market could substantially reduce the prevailing market price of our common stock. 