ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks associated with an investment in our common stock and all of the other information in this 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Customers in the oil and gas industry account for a significant portion of our sales. Reduced expenditures by customers in this industry are likely to reduce our net sales, profitability and cash flows. Customers related to the oil and gas industry accounted for approximately 35% and 40% of our sales in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The oil and gas industry is a cyclical commodity business, with product demand and prices based on numerous factors such as general economic conditions and local, regional and global events and conditions that affect supply, demand and profits. Demand for our products and services benefits from oil and gas markets, a decline in demand or prices for oil and gas will likely cause a decrease in demand for our products and services and result in a decline in our net sales, profit margins and cash flows. Our products include complex systems for energy and industrial markets which are subject to operational and liability risks. We are engaged in the manufacture and installation of complex power distribution and control systems for the energy and industrial markets. These systems are frequently complex and susceptible to unique engineering elements that are not tested in the actual operating environment until commissioned. As a result, we may incur unanticipated additional operating and warranty expenses that were not anticipated when the fixed-price contracts were estimated and executed resulting in reduced profit margins on such projects. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, which may result in a loss of market share or decrease in net sales or profit margin. Our products and services are provided in a highly competitive environment and we are subject to competition from a number of similarly sized or larger businesses which may have greater financial and other resources than are available to us. Factors that affect competition include timely delivery of products and services, reputation, manufacturing capabilities, price, performance and dependability. Any failure to adapt to a changing competitive environment may result in a loss of market share and a decrease in net sales and profit margins. We often utilize fixed-price contracts which could adversely affect our financial results. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our net sales under fixed-price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for such fixed-price contracts. The cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed-price contracts, may result in actual net sales and gross profits for a project differing from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability and losses on projects. Depending upon the size of fixed-price contracts, variations from estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. 8 Table of Contents Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profit. A portion of our net sales is recognized on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting practice we use results in recognizing contract net sales and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract net sales, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Actual collection of contract amounts or change orders could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. We may not be able to fully realize the net sales value reported in our backlog. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts. Backlog develops as a result of new business which represents the net sales value of new project commitments received by us during a given period. Backlog consists of projects which have either (1) not yet been started or (2) are in progress and are not yet complete. In the latter case, the net sales value reported in backlog is the remaining value associated with work that has not yet been completed. From time to time, projects that were recorded as new business are cancelled. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total net sales included in our backlog. In addition to being unable to recover certain direct costs, we may also incur additional costs resulting from underutilized assets if projects are cancelled. We rely on a few key employees whose absence or loss could disrupt our operations or be adverse to our business. Our continued success is dependent on the continuity of several key management, operating and technical personnel. The loss of these key employees would have a negative impact on our future growth and profitability. We have entered into written employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Chairman. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted by global recession. The consequences of a prolonged recession could include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding commodity and capital markets. During early 2011 and 2010, we experienced a reduction in the demand for our products as a result of a reduction in economic activity. The lack of a sustained recovery could continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operation, cash flows or financial position. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could lead to a loss of net sales or profitability. Our ability to provide high-quality products and services on a timely basis requires that we employ an adequate number of skilled personnel. Accordingly, our ability to increase our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy or that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. Natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions could harm our business and operations. Natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, and the actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations or those of our customers, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. We manufacture products and operate plants in Mississippi, Texas and Florida. Operations were disrupted in 2008 due to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and in 2005 due to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Although we did not suffer a material loss as a result of these disruptions due to our insurance coverage and advance preparations, it is not possible to predict future similar events or their consequences, any of which could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products, or disrupt our supply chain. We generate a significant portion of our net sales from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business outside of the United States. Approximately 36% of our net sales in 2011 were generated from projects and business operations outside of the United States, primarily provided to the oil and gas, drilling and marine industries in the following countries: Mexico, Canada, United Arab Emirate, India and Brazil. This percentage was approximately 15% in 2010. The oil and gas industry operates in both remote and potentially politically unstable locations, and numerous risks and uncertainties affect our non-United States operations. These risks and uncertainties include changes in political, economic and social environments, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, as well as United States laws affecting activities of United States companies abroad, including tax laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. In addition, the costs of providing our services can be adversely and/or unexpectedly impacted by the remoteness of the locations and other logistical factors. 9 Table of Contents We maintain an investment in a joint venture with a Chinese energy company. We may encounter unforeseen or unexpected operating, financial, political or cultural factors that could impact its business plans and the expected profitability from such investment. We will face risks if China loses normal trade relations with the United States and it may be adversely affected by the diplomatic and political relationships between the United States and China. As a result of the relatively weak Chinese legal system, in general, and the intellectual property regime, in particular, we may face additional risk with respect to the protection of our intellectual property in China. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could adversely affect our investment and business opportunities in China. The marketplace may not accept and utilize our newly developed solar products and services, the effect of which would prevent us from successfully commercializing any proposed products or services and adversely affect our level of future net sales for these solar products. Our ability to market and commercialize our products and services for the manufacture and distribution of the newly developed solar products directly depends on the acceptance of such products and services by the industry. Foreign Currency Transaction Risk AETI maintains equity method investments in its Singapore, Chinese and Brazilian joint ventures, MIEFE, BOMAY, and AAG, respectively. The functional currencies of the joint ventures are the Singapore Dollar, the Chinese Yuan and the Brazilian Real, respectively. Investments are translated into United States Dollars at the exchange rate in effect at the end of each quarterly reporting period. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income, net of deferred taxes in AETI’s consolidated balance sheet. This item increased from $692,000 at December 31, 2010 to $849,000 at December 31, 2011 due principally to the weakness of the United States Dollar against the Chinese Yuan. Each of the BOMAY investors may be required to guarantee the bank loans of BOMAY in proportion to their investment. The limit of BOMAY’s loan amount shall be determined by the BOMAY Board of Directors subject to the operating requirements. At this time, no guarantees have been provided by AETI. Other than the aforementioned items, we do not believe we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk because all of our net sales and purchases are denominated in United States Dollars. Commodity Price Risk We are subject to market risk from fluctuating market prices of certain raw materials. While such materials are typically available from numerous suppliers, commodity raw materials are subject to price fluctuations. We endeavor to recoup any price increases from our customers on an individual contract basis to avoid operating margin erosion. Although historically we have not entered into any contracts to hedge commodity risk, we may do so in the future. Commodity price changes can have a material impact on our prospective earnings and cash flows. Copper, steel and aluminum represent a significant element of our material cost. Significant increases in the prices of these materials could reduce our estimated operating margins if we are unable to recover such increases from customer net sales. Interest Rates Our market risk sensitive items do not subject us to material risk exposures. Our revolving credit facility remains available through July 1, 2013. At December 31, 2011, the Company had $5.0 million of variable-rate debt outstanding under the facility. At this borrowing level, a hypothetical relative increase of 10% in interest rates would have had an insignificant, unfavorable impact on the Company’s pretax earnings and cash flows. The primary interest rate exposure on variable-rate debt is based on the 30 day LIBOR rate (0.28% at December 31, 2011) plus 3.25% per year. The agreement is collateralized by trade accounts receivable, inventory, work-in-process, equipment and real property located in Beaumont and Houston, TX. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 10 Table of Contents 