Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider each of the following risks described below and all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K in evaluating us. Our business, financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common shares of beneficial interest (“Common Shares”) could decline due to any of these risks. As with any business, we face a number of risks. We have grouped these risk factors into several categories, as follows: 1. General Risks Related to Our Business 2. Risks Related to Our Affordable Housing Equity segment 3. Risks Related to Our Affordable Housing Debt segment 4. Risks Related to our Mortgage Banking segment 5. Risks Related to Application of Tax Laws 6. Risks Related to Investing in Our Company - 5 - 1. General Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to raise capital or access financing on favorable terms, or at all, and we may also be unable to repay or refinance our debt obligations Our outstanding debt could limit our operational flexibility, limit our ability to raise additional capital, limit our ability to invest in new businesses, limit our ability to take advantage of opportunities to diversify and acquire other companies or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. Capital limitations could affect our ability to grow assets under management, a major aspect of our business plan, as we achieve at least part of this growth by initially warehousing investments for new Tax Credit Fund Partnerships, which requires capital. Furthermore, our ability to raise capital has been negatively impacted by our low Common Share price and the lower level of debt financing available in the marketplace. We are subject to the risks normally associated with outstanding debt, including the risks that: · our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; · our vulnerability to downturns in our business is increased, requiring us to reduce expenditures we need to expand our businesses; · we may be unable to refinance existing indebtedness; and the terms of any refinancing may be less favorable than the terms of existing indebtedness; and · we may be unable to satisfy ongoing financial and other covenants, which if not waived or amended by our lenders, could lead to accelerations of, and cross-defaults on, our debt obligations. In March 2010, we entered into a Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit And Term Loan Agreement and have subsequently entered into a waiver agreement and three amendments to that waiver agreement (as amended by the waiver agreements, the “Credit Agreement”). The Credit Agreement places certain restrictions on our activities, including, among other things: · limitations on our incurring additional unsecured indebtedness without lender approval; · restrictions on our ability to make any distributions or redeem or purchase any of our shares including Series A Convertible Community Reinvestment Act Preferred Shares (“Convertible CRA Shares”), except in certain circumstances, such as distributions to the holders of preferred shares of Centerline Equity Issuer Trust (“Equity Issuer”), a subsidiary of the Company, if and to the extent that such distributions are made solely out of funds received from Freddie Mac as contemplated by a specified transaction (“EIT Preferred Share Distributions”); · limitations on our ability to make new business investments without lender approval; and · restrictions on our ability to conduct transactions with our affiliates. We must repay $2.98 million in principal per quarter on our Term Loan until maturity in March 2017 at which time the remaining principal is due. Our Revolving Credit Facility matures in March 2015. See the description of our existing facilities under Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – SECTION 3 – Financial Condition. We rely on debt capital to finance our business. If the lower level of debt financing available in the marketplace continues, we may be unable to achieve our strategic goals. Any debt we may be able to arrange may carry a higher rate of interest than our current debt, thereby decreasing our net income and cash flows. As a result, certain growth initiatives could prove more costly or not economically feasible. A failure to meet required amortization payments of our debt facilities, renew our existing credit facilities, to increase our capacity under our existing facilities or to add new or replacement debt facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we would pursue any options available to us in order to avoid the consequences of covenant non-compliance (such as obtaining additional waivers for covenant non-compliance, working with our creditors to extend, modify or restructure our obligations, dispose of our assets or adjust our business, or otherwise pursue strategic and financial alternatives available to us in order to preserve enterprise value), we can provide no assurance that such efforts would enable us to avoid defaults on or the acceleration of our obligations or if implemented will not involve a substantial restructuring or alteration of our business operations or capital structure. An uncured default on, and acceleration of, a material obligation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our businesses, results of operations and financial condition have been materially and adversely affected by disruptions in the credit and real estate markets Since the middle of 2007, the real estate and credit markets have been subject to significant and unprecedented disruptions. We have been materially and adversely affected by these conditions and events in a number of ways, including: · a general decline in business activity caused by stagnation and slow recovery in the many markets in which we operate; - 6 - · curtailment of our liquidity as described in Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis. Although there has been some improvement in access to credit and real estate values appear to be stabilizing in different parts of the country, the continuing limitation of credit and the uncertain economic environment may adversely impact our results of operations in the future. We may not be successful in reinvigorating the businesses we retained and grow to the extent we currently plan or that we experienced in the past. We rely upon business relationships which may not continue We rely upon relationships with key investors and developers. If these relationships do not continue, or if we are unable to form new relationships, our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected. Specifically: · in the three years prior to the downturn in the tax credit syndication market, 10 developers provided 37.3% of the Tax Credit Property Partnerships for which we arranged equity financing through our Tax Credit Fund Partnerships; and · Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were the purchasers of 99% of the loans originated by our Mortgage Banking and Affordable Housing Debt segments in 2011 and 90% of the loans originated in 2010. Our ability to generate revenue through mortgage sales to institutional investors largely depends on programs sponsored by GSEs, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market. In 2009, the federal government placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship in an attempt to stabilize those GSEs. In February 2011, The Department of the Treasury and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development issued a report to congress entitled Reforming America’s Housing Finance Market in which they recommended the development of a plan to responsibly reduce the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the mortgage market. We are not involved in the single family home mortgage business but we are involved with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with respect to the multifamily rental housing finance business, which extends across our Affordable Housing Debt and Mortgage Banking segments. A reduction in the role that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac plays in the multi-family mortgage market could have a material adverse effect on our Mortgage Banking Activities. Our agreements with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which afford us a number of advantages, may be canceled by either of them upon the occurrence of certain conditions, and for cause. Cancellation of one or more of these agreements would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Factors beyond our control may cause investors or purchasers to curtail their activities. Developers may also experience financial difficulties that would, in turn, reduce the amount of business we transact with them. If developers were to fail, it could also lead to some of the adverse consequences listed under There are risks associated with investments secured by real estate, which may negatively affect our net income and cash flows below. By reason of their regulated status, certain of our investors have regulatory incentives to invest in our sponsored Tax Credit Fund Partnerships in addition to the economic return from such investments. A change in such regulations could result in determinations by such investors to seek other investment opportunities. Lastly, many of our financing arrangements, including our Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility and one of our mortgage banking warehouse lines are with Bank of America (either as sole lender or as lead lender). Bank of America also owns Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (“Merrill Lynch”), which is involved in a number of credit intermediation transactions with us. With limited availability in the credit markets we have become increasingly dependent upon fewer lenders to provide needed financing. There are risks associated with investments secured by real estate, which may negatively affect our net income and cash flows Through our subsidiaries, we historically have derived a large portion of our earnings by: · originating and managing Tax Credit Fund Partnerships that provide equity to Tax Credit Property Partnerships; · originating and servicing multifamily mortgages; and · investing in loans secured by real estate or revenues from real estate. Our success depends in large part on the performance of the properties underlying these investments, which subjects us to various types and degrees of risk, including the following: · the properties might not generate sufficient income to meet their operating expenses and payments on the related debt and/or operating expenses may escalate leading to the same result; · economic conditions may limit the amount of rent that can be charged at the properties, the timeliness of rent payments or a reduction in occupancy levels; - 7 - · there may be rent limitations for certain properties that could limit our ability to generate the funds necessary to maintain the properties in proper condition; · current market conditions have led to increased foreclosures, resulting in greater supply of low-cost homes which could lower the demand for multifamily rental housing; · if an investment defaults, the fair market value of the property securing such investment may be less than the principal amount of our investment; · there are certain types of losses that are either uninsurable or not economically insurable; as a result, the owners of the real estate securing our investments could be required to pay for such costs; and · a guarantor may be unable to fulfill its obligations. All of these conditions and events may increase the possibility that, among other things: · a property owner may be unable to meet its obligations to us as holder of its debt; · a property owner may default on a mortgage for which we have a loss-sharing obligation; · a fund may not be able to pay our fees; and · we could lose our invested capital and/or anticipated future revenue. This could decrease the fair value of our investments, lower the fair value of assets we pledge as collateral, impair our ability to generate new business and negatively affect our net income and cash flows. We may suffer adverse consequences from changing interest rates Because our debt is variable rate and not hedged, an increase in interest rates could negatively affect our net income and cash flows. Additionally, increasing interest rates may: · reduce the fair value of our investments and residual interests in securitization transactions; · decrease the amount we could realize on the sale or financing of those investments; · reduce the number of properties economically feasible to finance; · reduce the demand for financing, which could limit our ability to originate loans or to structure transactions, thereby reducing fees and interest we receive; · restrict our access to capital; and · cause investors to find alternative investments that are more attractive than the Tax Credit Fund Partnerships we sponsor. Conversely, falling interest rates may prompt historical renters to become homebuyers, in turn potentially reducing the demand for the multifamily rental housing we finance. Further, a portion of our net income is generated by interest income we earn on mortgage escrow deposits. If interest rates decrease, our revenue decreases as well. Furthermore, strategies we may follow to address these risks carry risks of their own, including, but not limited to: · the potential inability to refinance debt at terms we find acceptable; · lack of availability of alternate sources of fixed-rate or lower cost financing; · default by interest rate swap counterparties on their obligations to us; · our inability to match the duration or reset periods of assets and liabilities that we want to mitigate the effect of changing rates; and · other efforts to manage risks related to changes in interest rates that may not be successful. - 8 - If a change in interest rates causes the consequences described above, or otherwise negatively affects us, the result could adversely affect our ability to generate net income or cash flows. Heightened competition may negatively impact our earnings We are subject to competition in all of our business lines, as described in Item 1. – Business – Business Overview – Competition. If competition increases, we may experience compression in the level of profits we earn on our various investments and financing products due to, among other things: · reductions in volume of Tax Credit Fund Partnerships originated and/or the rate of fees we earn from originating and managing Tax Credit Fund Partnerships; · reductions in the rate of interest we earn on investments; and · reductions in volume of mortgage originations and/or the rates of origination and servicing fees for mortgages. As we may borrow funds to make investments, the ability to access such funds and rising interest rates may compound this issue. Absent cost reductions, such compression may not permit us to enjoy the margins we have achieved historically, thereby lowering our revenues and net income. Our assets are pledged and there are restrictions on securitizing/monetizing them Substantially all of our assets have been pledged as collateral in connection with our debt facilities and credit intermediation activities and we may not have full access to them until we exit the related programs (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). This may prevent us from entering into asset specific financing agreements at terms more favorable than under existing agreements. Also, if we are unable to meet the payment terms under the related agreements, we may be forced to sell certain assets, which could result in losses and the elimination of income and cash flows we currently earn. Our Convertible CRA Shares are redeemable and could adversely affect our liquidity Our Convertible CRA Shares have a redemption feature that can now be exercised. We would be required to pay approximately $6.0 million to redeem all of our Convertible CRA Shares, unless we negotiated a settlement with the holders of our Convertible Series A Shares to pay a lesser amount. A holder of Convertible CRA Shares with a redemption value of approximately $4.0 million has exercised its option to have those shares redeemed. The Credit Agreement contains restrictions on our ability to redeem the Convertible CRA Shares. If we are required to redeem our Convertible CRA Shares, it could negatively affect our liquidity. See Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – SECTION 3 – Financial Condition. 2. Risks Related to Our Affordable Housing Equity Segment Tax Credit Fund Partnerships may not generate sufficient cash to pay amounts due to us, which may negatively impact our net income and cash flows Much of the revenue in our Affordable Housing Equity segment is historically earned from fees that Tax Credit Fund Partnerships we sponsor and manage pay to our subsidiaries for services rendered. These Tax Credit Fund Partnerships are dependent upon the cash flows of Tax Credit Property Partnerships in which they invest to generate their own cash flows that are used to pay such fees for services, such as asset management and advisory services. As the Tax Credit Property Partnerships are susceptible to numerous operational risks (see General Risks Related to Our Business – There are risks associated with investments secured by real estate, which may negatively affect our net income and cash flows), the Tax Credit Fund Partnerships may not collect sufficient cash to pay the fees they owe to us. If we do not receive these fees, or if we determine that the amounts are not collectible, the loss of such earnings would negatively impact our net income and cash flows. We may be unable to raise capital for new Tax Credit Fund Partnerships Historically, a large part of our net income is based on fees and equity income we earn for originating or managing Tax Credit Fund Partnerships, many of which have finite lives. Our current strategy to expand our third party asset management business is dependent upon our ability to attract investors to Tax Credit Fund Partnerships we originate. If we are not successful in originating Tax Credit Fund Partnerships to expand our business and to replace others as they approach the end of their life cycles, our ability to earn income and generate cash flows will decline. Additionally, real estate underlies most of our business lines, whether by virtue of sponsoring Tax Credit Fund Partnerships associated with real estate or by direct investment. While sometimes viewed as an attractive investment sector, there is no guarantee that the investors in the Tax Credit Fund Partnerships we sponsor will continue to allocate capital to investments associated with real estate. Should there be a general decline in capital invested in the sector, our ability to sponsor Tax Credit Fund Partnerships would be diminished and the income we earn from these activities would decline. - 9 - There is a risk of elimination of, or changes to, governmental programs that could limit our product offerings A significant portion of our Affordable Housing Equity segment revenues is derived from the syndication of partnership interests in partnerships that invest in properties eligible for LIHTCs which are a provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Section 42 of the Code authorizes federal LIHTCs for affordable multifamily rental housing. Under this program, a property either receives an allocation of federal LIHTCs from an agency designated by the government of the state in which the property is located or the property is entitled to the LIHTCs by reason of its being financed by volume cap mortgage revenue bonds. There are two types of credits: · 4% credits – for new buildings and existing buildings financed with mortgage revenue bonds that receive an allocation of the volume cap, or for new and existing buildings financed with below-market federal financing that receive an allocation of federal LIHTCs from state agencies; and · 9% credits – for new or substantially rehabilitated buildings that receive an allocation of federal LIHTCs from state agencies. The credits are typically taken over a period of ten years, which can span over an 11-year operating period. The credit amount is based on the qualified basis of each building, which is based upon the adjusted basis of the building multiplied by the percentage of units in the building leased to low-income tenants. In order to qualify for the federal LIHTC, the property must comply with either of the “20/50” or “40/60” tests that apply to tax-exempt bonds (see The treatment of our income as federally tax exempt depends upon the application of tax laws that could be challenged under Risks Related to Application of Tax Laws later in this section). In addition, the amount of rent that may be charged to qualifying low-income tenants cannot exceed 30% of the “imputed income” for each unit, i.e., 30% of the imputed income of a family earning 50% or 60% of area median income, as adjusted for family size. Failure to comply continuously with these requirements throughout the 15-year recapture period could result in a recapture of the federal LIHTCs. In addition, if the rents from the property are not sufficient to pay debt service on the mortgage revenue bonds or other financing secured by the property and a default ensues, the initial borrower could lose ownership of the project as a result of foreclosure of the mortgage. In such event, the initial equity investors would no longer be entitled to claim the federal LIHTCs, but the foreclosing lender could claim the remaining LIHTCs provided the project continues to be operated in accordance with the requirements of Section 42. As a result, there is a strong incentive for the federal LIHTC investor to ensure that the development is current on debt service payments by making additional capital contributions or otherwise. With respect to most of the properties, substantially all the multifamily units are rented to individuals or families earning no greater than 60% of area median income and, thus, substantially all of the qualified basis may be used to determine the amount of the federal LIHTC. This maximizes the amount of equity raised from the purchasers of the federal LIHTCs for each development and provides for the maximum amount of rent that can be obtained from tenants where there is currently strong occupancy demand. The Tax Credit Fund Partnerships we sponsor contribute the negotiated equity to the developer/owner, paid over a period of time. In the case of properties utilizing 4% credits, this contribution will usually provide between 25% and 35% of the costs of the development. For properties utilizing 9% credits, this contribution will usually provide between 45% and 55% of the cost of the development. Since LIHTCs are a part of the Code, Congress could repeal or modify this legislation at any time or modify the tax laws so that the value of LIHTC benefits is reduced. If such legislation is repealed or adversely modified, we would no longer be able to pursue this portion of our business strategy. Our role as a sponsor of Tax Credit Fund Partnerships and co-developer of Tax Credit Property Partnerships exposes us to risks of loss In connection with the sponsorship of Tax Credit Fund Partnerships and joint venture activities for co-development of Tax Credit Property Partnerships, we act as a fiduciary to the investors in our Tax Credit Fund Partnerships and in certain cases also provide performance guarantees to these investors. We advance funds to acquire interests in Tax Credit Property Partnerships for inclusion in Tax Credit Fund Partnerships and, at any point in time, the amount of funds advanced can be material. Recovery of these amounts is subject to our ability to attract investors to new Tax Credit Fund Partnerships or, if investors are not found, the sale of the partnership interests in the underlying properties. We could also be liable to investors in Tax Credit Fund Partnerships and third parties as a result of serving as general partner or special limited partner in various Tax Credit Fund Partnerships. - 10 - In addition, investors in the Tax Credit Fund Partnerships we sponsor and manage anticipate certain returns on their investment and for certain Tax Credit Fund Partnerships we have agreed to provide specified rates of return. If the Tax Credit Property Partnerships in which these funds invest do not perform as expected, we may be required to make payments in order to cover shortfalls at the Tax Credit Property Partnership level or to insure Tax Credit Fund Partnerships produce their specified level of return (see also There are risks associated with credit intermediation and commitments to provide specified rates of return that could reduce our reported income). We may advance monies to a Tax Credit Fund Partnership to cover shortfalls at the Tax Credit Property Partnership level, although we are not required to do so, to maintain our relationship with Tax Credit Fund Partnership investors and to preserve the value of our residual interests in the mortgage revenue bonds we re-securitized. If we make such advances, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover the monies. If we determine that any such advances are not recoverable, the negative impact on our net income and cash flows could be material. There are risks associated with credit intermediation and commitments to provide specified rates of return that could reduce our reported income Through our subsidiaries, we have provided credit intermediation to third parties. These contracts provide for payment to cover shortfalls at properties or provide specified internal rates of return to investors in Tax Credit Fund Partnerships we sponsor. All of these credit intermediation agreements have been executed at isolated special purpose entities. These isolated special purpose entities have been capitalized to meet the payments required under these agreements, however in certain cases we may be required to make additional payments to these isolated special purpose entities if the Tax Credit Property Partnerships related to these agreements do not perform as expected. In certain instances these isolated special purpose entities are required to advance funds to a Tax Credit Fund Partnership to cover shortfalls at the Tax Credit Property Partnership level in order to insure that the investors do not lose their expected tax benefits and, if the internal rate of return to investors falls below the specified level, these subsidiaries would be required to make a payment so that the specified rate of return is achieved. If third parties default on their obligations for which these subsidiaries provided credit intermediation, our reported loss would likely be in an amount far in excess of the fee paid to us for providing the service. If advances are made to cover shortfalls at the Tax Credit Property Partnership level, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover the monies. If we determine that any such advances are not recoverable, the negative impact on our net income and cash flows could be material. The maximum potential liability pursuant to these transactions is detailed in Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis – SECTION 3 – Financial Condition – Commitments and Contingencies – Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Note 31 to the consolidated financial statements. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we did not complete the restructuring of certain bonds by the date required in the Master Novation, Stabilization, Assignment, Allocation, Servicing and Asset Management Agreement with Natixis (“Natixis Master Agreement”), which resulted in a cash freeze event under the terms of that agreement. As a result of the cash freeze event, we must obtain consent from Natixis prior to any usage of available cash at CFin Holdings, one of the isolated special purpose entities described above that is required to provide intermediation services to certain of our Tax Credit Fund Partnerships. Certain management agreements have finite terms and may not be renewed which could negatively affect our net income and cash flows We receive fees from Tax Credit Fund Partnerships we sponsor and manage. These Tax Credit Fund Partnerships generally do not require or authorize their investors to approve the funds’ management arrangements with us as we will generally have controlling interests in the Tax Credit Fund Partnership or the entities which control the Tax Credit Fund Partnership. However, our management is subject to a fiduciary duty to the investors in those Tax Credit Fund Partnerships, which may affect our ability to continue to collect the fees and equity allocations. Furthermore, the organizational documents of certain of these Tax Credit Fund Partnerships allow for the investors to remove us as general partner or managing member without cause or upon the occurrence of certain events. Although the Tax Credit Fund Partnerships will generally be required to pay fair market value if they exercise this right, our right to receive future fees would terminate and there can be no assurance that the payment will fully compensate us for the future loss in revenue. Finally, many of these Tax Credit Fund Partnerships have finite lives, after which they are liquidated. The termination of a fund will result in a termination of the fees we receive from it. 3. Risks Related to Our Affordable Housing Debt Segment There are risks associated with our investment in Freddie Mac B-Certificates, which may negatively affect our net income and cash flows. In addition to the above risk factor entitled There are risks associated with investments secured by real estate, which may negatively affect our net income and cash flows, there are additional risks associated with our investment in Freddie Mac B-Certificates. Cash received and income recorded on our Freddie Mac B-Certificates is impacted by third party support of the properties underlying this investment as well as the restructuring of non-performing property debt underlying this investment. We have entered into agreements with Merrill Lynch and Natixis Financial Products which contemplate ongoing support for certain properties as well as the restructuring of non-performing property debt. Consummation of the specific support provisions included in these agreements is dependent on various conditions being met. These conditions may not be met or these agreements may be amended or modified which may negatively impact the cash received and income recorded on our Freddie Mac B-Certificates. - 11 - There are risks of loss associated with our mortgage originations that may negatively impact our net income and cash flows We also participate in loss sharing transactions for loans we originated under Freddie Mac’s DUI program whereby we have originated loans that were purchased by Freddie Mac. Under the terms of our master agreement with Freddie Mac, we are obligated to reimburse Freddie Mac for a portion of any loss that may result from borrower defaults in DUI transactions. For such loans, if a default occurs, our share of the loss will be the first 5% of the unpaid principal balance and 25% of the next 20% of the remaining unpaid principal balance to a maximum of 10% of the unpaid principal balance. The loss on a defaulted loan is calculated as the unpaid principal amount due, unpaid interest due and default resolutions costs (taxes, insurance, operation and foreclosure costs) less recoveries. As of December 31, 2011, we had 59 loss sharing loans in this program. Our maximum “first loss” exposure under the DUS and DUI programs is detailed in Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis – SECTION 3 – Financial Condition – Commitments and Contingencies - Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Note 31 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, we could be required to repurchase loans we have originated for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or we could be subject to other substantial penalties and damages, including loss of servicing rights, if we fail to perform in accordance with our DUS and DUI agreements by, for example, failing to underwrite and deliver a loan in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable master agreement. As a mortgage lender, we must comply with numerous licensing requirements, and our inability to remain in compliance with such requirements could adversely affect our operations and, in general, our reputation Like other mortgage lending companies, we must comply with the applicable licensing and other regulatory requirements of each jurisdiction in which we are authorized to lend. These requirements are complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. From time to time we are subject to examination by regulators and, if it is determined that we are not in compliance with the applicable requirements, we may be fined, and our license to lend in one or more jurisdictions may be suspended or revoked. If our loan servicing portfolio decreases, our net income and cash flows would be negatively affected A large portion of our revenues in the mortgage origination business relate to recurring fees for servicing mortgages we originate or those for which we have sub-servicing agreements. Loans in our portfolio are subject to maturity, prepayments, defaults and refinancing after which we may not recapture the loan. Upon these events, our portfolio would decline, depriving us of the associated revenue stream. This, in turn, would negatively affect our net income and cash flows. 4. Risks Related to Our Mortgage Banking Segment There are risks of loss associated with our mortgage originations that may negatively impact our net income and cash flows Under the DUS program, we originate loans through one of our subsidiaries that are thereafter purchased or credit enhanced by Fannie Mae and sold to third party investors. Pursuant to a master loss sharing agreement with Fannie Mae, we retain a first loss position with respect to the loans that we originate and sell under this program. For these loss sharing loans, we assume responsibility for a portion of any loss that may result from borrower defaults, based on the Fannie Mae loss sharing formulas, and Fannie Mae risk Levels I, II or III. All of the 1,019 loss sharing loans in this program as of December 31, 2011, were Level I loans. For a majority of these loans, if a default occurs, we are responsible for the first 5% of the unpaid principal balance and a portion of any additional losses to a maximum of 20% of the original principal balance; any remaining loss is borne by Fannie Mae. A modified risk sharing arrangement is applied to 93 loans in which our risk share is reduced to 0% to 75% of our overall share of the loss. Pursuant to this agreement, we are responsible for funding 100% of mortgagor delinquency (principal and interest) and servicing advances (taxes, insurance and foreclosure costs) until the amounts advanced exceed 5% of the unpaid principal balance at the date of default. Thereafter, for Level I loans, we may request interim loss sharing adjustments which allow us to fund 25% of such advances until final settlement under the master loss sharing agreement. No interim sharing adjustments are available for Level II and Level III loans. Our maximum “first loss” exposure under the DUS and DUI programs is detailed in Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis – SECTION 3 – Financial Condition – Commitments and Contingencies - Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Note 31 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, we could be required to repurchase loans we have originated for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or we could be subject to other substantial penalties and damages, including loss of servicing rights, if we fail to perform in accordance with our DUS and DUI agreements by, for example, failing to underwrite and deliver a loan in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable master agreement. - 12 - As a mortgage lender, we must comply with numerous licensing requirements, and our inability to remain in compliance with such requirements could adversely affect our operations and, in general, our reputation Like other mortgage lending companies, we must comply with the applicable licensing and other regulatory requirements of each jurisdiction in which we are authorized to lend. These requirements are complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. From time to time we are subject to examination by regulators and, if it is determined that we are not in compliance with the applicable requirements, we may be fined, and our license to lend in one or more jurisdictions may be suspended or revoked. If our loan servicing portfolio decreases, our net income and cash flows would be negatively affected A large portion of our revenues in the mortgage origination business relate to recurring fees for servicing mortgages we originate or those for which we have sub-servicing agreements. Loans in our portfolio are subject to maturity, prepayments, defaults and refinancing after which we may not recapture the loan. Upon these events, our portfolio would decline, depriving us of the associated revenue stream. This, in turn, would negatively affect our net income and cash flows. 5. Risks Related to Application of Tax Laws We may not realize the value of net operating loss carry forwards Due to significant operating losses over the past several years, we have a significant net operating loss (“NOL”) that can be carried forward to offset taxable income in future periods. While we currently carry the deferred tax asset related to the NOL carry forward at zero value due to uncertainty of utilization in the near term, since the NOL may be carried forward for a period of 20 years, there is potential value in the deferred tax asset. Should the IRS determine that we underwent a “change of control” of more than 50%, certain provisions of the Code would substantially eliminate our ability to utilize loss carry forwards. If such an event were to occur, the cash flow benefits we might otherwise realize from utilizing the NOL carry forwards would be eliminated. Furthermore, strategies we may follow to address these risks carry risks of their own, as described in Risks Related to Investing in Our Company – Our anti-takeover provisions may discourage third-party proposals. Additionally, the companies with the tax losses are open to federal, state and local audit for the tax years 2008 – 2010. To date, we have settled federal and state audits for the tax years through 2007 without any significant negative audit adjustments. The federal and state audits for 2008 have begun and no significant negative adjustments have been proposed thus far. Should the federal, state or local tax authorities successfully reduce our tax losses claimed in these open tax years, the amount of loss carry forwards disclosed as available to offset future taxable income would be reduced. Our former classification as a publicly traded partnership not taxable as a corporation is not free from doubt and could be challenged during tax periods open for IRS examination Effective July 31, 2011, Centerline Holding Company (“CHC”) elected to be taxed as a corporation. Prior to that, we were taxed as a flow-through entity, which allowed us to pass-through some of our income, including our federally tax-exempt income, and deductions to our shareholders. For periods prior to the Election, the listing of our Common Shares on the Over-the-Counter Exchange caused us to be treated as a “publicly traded partnership” for federal income tax purposes. For periods prior to the Election, we believe that we were properly treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. However, for periods prior to the Election, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) could challenge our partnership status and we could fail to qualify as a partnership in years that are subject to audit. Qualification as a partnership involves the application of numerous technical legal provisions. For example, a publicly traded partnership is generally taxable as a corporation unless 90% or more of its gross income is “qualifying” income (which includes interest, dividends, real property rents, gains from the sale or other disposition of real property, gain from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of interest or dividends, and certain other items). We have represented that in all prior years of our existence and for the period up to the Election, at least 90% of our gross income was qualifying income. In determining whether interest is treated as qualifying income under these rules, interest income derived from a “financial business” and income and gains derived by a “dealer” in securities are not treated as qualifying income. For periods prior to the Election, we have represented that we were acting as an investor with respect to our remaining mortgage revenue bond investments and that we have not engaged in a financial business, although there is no clear guidance on what constitutes a financial business under the tax law. For periods prior to the Election, we have taken the position that for purposes of determining whether we are in a financial business, Affordable Housing Equity activities would not cause us to be engaged in a financial business or to be considered a “dealer” in securities. The IRS could assert that our activities constituted a financial business. If our activities constituted a financial business or cause us to be treated as a dealer, there is a substantial risk that more than 10% of our gross income would not constitute qualifying income. We could also be treated as if we were engaged in a financial business if the activities of Centerline Capital Group LLC (“CCG”) and its subsidiaries were attributed to us and were determined to constitute a financial business. CCG is subject to income tax on its income. Accordingly, for periods prior to the Election, we believe the activities and income of CCG and its subsidiaries will not be attributed to CHC for purposes of determining the Company’s tax status. - 13 - For periods prior to the Election if, for any reason, less than 90% of our gross income constituted qualifying income, items of income and deduction would not pass-through to our shareholders and our shareholders would be treated for federal income tax purposes as stockholders in a corporation. We would be required to pay income tax at corporate rates on any portion of our net income that did not constitute tax-exempt income. In addition, a portion of our federally tax-exempt income may be included in determining our alternative minimum tax liability. Distributions by us to our shareholders would constitute dividend income taxable to such holders to the extent of our earnings and profits, which would include tax-exempt income, as well as any taxable income we might have, and the payment of these distributions would not be deductible by us. For periods prior to the Election, these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our shareholders and consequently, the current price of our shares. For periods after the Election, we have determined that being taxable as a corporation would not result in significant additional tax liabilities. There is a risk that the IRS will disagree with our judgment with respect to allocations Effective July 31, 2011, CHC elected to be taxed as a corporation. For periods prior to the Election, we used various accounting and reporting conventions to determine each shareholder’s allocable share of income, including any market discount taxable as ordinary income, gain, loss and deductions. Our allocation provisions will be respected for federal income tax purposes only if they are considered to have “substantial economic effect” or are in accordance with the partners’ “interest in the partnership”. There is no assurance that the IRS will agree with our various accounting methods, conventions and allocation provisions, particularly our allocation of adjustments to shareholders attributable to the differences between the shareholders’ purchase price of Common Shares and their shares of our tax basis in our assets, pursuant to an election we made. The structure of our acquisitions could be challenged Effective July 31, 2011, CHC elected to be taxed as a corporation. Our acquisitions of Centerline Affordable Housing Advisors LLC (“CAHA”) and other subsidiaries were structured to prevent us from realizing active income from these businesses for periods prior to the Election and to effectively receive a tax deduction (via the allocation of subsidiary income) for payments made to its selling principals. It is possible that the IRS could challenge this structure, with material adverse consequences to us for periods prior to the Election. First, the IRS could assert that we, as the parent trust, are the owner of these businesses, in which case the parent trust would realize an amount of active income from them that would require it to be treated as a corporation instead of a partnership for income tax purposes. If the IRS prevailed, that income would be includable in taxable income or loss for periods prior to the Election. Even though the Company has currently suspended its distributions, it is still possible that if the IRS prevailed, the value of our shares would decline. Second, the IRS might assert that the Special Common Units (“SCUs”) held by the selling principals of the businesses and others are actually shares of our Company. If this position prevailed, the distributions payable on the units would not reduce the taxable income of CCG. In such event, CCG would be subject to increased tax, which could reduce our net income, our cash flows and our distributions, which could also result in a decrease in the portion of our distributions that is excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes for periods prior to the Election. The treatment of our income as federally tax exempt depends upon the application of tax laws that could be challenged In our Affordable Housing Equity segment, we invest primarily in investments that generate tax-exempt income. However, the IRS may seek to re-characterize a portion of our tax-exempt income as taxable income as described in the Tax-exemption of interest on mortgage revenue bonds section below. If the IRS were successful, for the periods prior to the Election, a shareholder’s distributive share of such income would be taxable to the shareholder, regardless of whether an amount of cash equal to such distributive share is actually distributed. Any taxable income would be allocated pro rata among our Convertible CRA Shares and our Common Shares. The Company has suspended its distributions, and as a result, the Convertible CRA Shares are not currently allocated any income. For the periods after the Election, the income would be taxable to the Company. Tax-exemption of interest on mortgage revenue bonds On the date of original issuance or re-issuance of each mortgage revenue bond, nationally recognized bond counsel or special tax counsel rendered its opinion to the effect that, based on the law in effect on that date, interest on such mortgage revenue bonds is excludable from federally-taxable gross income, except with respect to any revenue bond during any period in which it is held by a “substantial user” of the property financed with the proceeds of such mortgage revenue bonds or a “related person” of such a “substantial user.” Each opinion speaks only as of the date it was delivered. However, an opinion of counsel has no binding effect and there is no assurance that the IRS will not contest these conclusions or, if contested, that they will be sustained by a court. The Code establishes certain requirements which must be met subsequent to the issuance and delivery of tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds for interest on such mortgage revenue bonds to remain excludable from federally-taxable gross income. Among these continuing requirements are restrictions on the investment and use of the revenue bond proceeds. In addition, there is a requirement that the property be operated as a rental property and that during the Qualified Project Period (defined below) at least either: - 14 - · 20% of the units must be rented to individuals or families whose income is less than 50% of the area median gross income (the “20/50 test”); or · 40% of the units must be rented to individuals or families whose income is less than 60% of the area median gross income (the “40/60 test”); in each case with adjustments for family size. The Qualified Project Period begins when 10% of the units in the property are first occupied and ends on the latest of the date: (i) which is 15 years after 50% of the units are occupied; (ii) on which all the bonds have been retired; or (iii) on which any assistance provided under Section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 terminates. Continuing requirements also include compliance and compliance with rules pertaining to arbitrage. Each issuer of the mortgage revenue bonds, as well as each of the underlying borrowers, has covenanted to comply with certain procedures and guidelines designed to ensure satisfaction of the continuing requirements of the Code. Failure to comply with these continuing requirements of the Code may cause the interest on such bonds to be includable in federally-taxable gross income retroactively to the date of issuance, regardless of when such noncompliance occurs. “Substantial User Limitation” Interest on a mortgage revenue bond we own will not be excluded from gross income during any period in which we are a “substantial user” of the properties financed with the proceeds of such mortgage revenue bond or a “related person” to a “substantial user”. A “substantial user” generally includes any underlying borrower and any person or entity that uses the financed properties on other than a de minimis basis. Although we believe that we are not “substantial users” of the properties financed with the proceeds of the mortgage revenue bonds owned by us or related parties, there can be no assurance that the IRS would not challenge such conclusion. If such challenge were successful, the interest received on any bond for which we were treated as a “substantial user” or a “related party” thereto would be includable in federally taxable gross income. Tax exemption of distributions on residual interest We hold residual interests in a large number of federally tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds, primarily through our re-securitization program with Freddie Mac. These residual interests entitle us to a share of the federally tax-exempt interest of such mortgage revenue bonds. Special tax counsel for each securitization program has rendered an opinion to the effect that the issuer of the residual interests will be classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and the holders of the residual interests will be treated as partners of such partnership. Consequently, as the holder of the residual interests, we treat our share of the federally tax-exempt income allocated and distributed to us as federally tax-exempt income. However, it is possible that the IRS could disagree with those conclusions and an alternative characterization could cause income from the residual interests to be treated as ordinary taxable income. If such an assertion of an alternative characterization prevailed, it would materially adversely affect us and our shareholders. In addition, it is possible that the interest on one or more of the mortgage revenue bonds in which we own a residual interest could be treated by the IRS as taxable ordinary income. In such event, the distributions on such residual interest would also, to the extent of such taxable interest on an underlying mortgage revenue bond, be treated as taxable ordinary income. Also, in most securitization programs, including the Freddie Mac securitization, we are obligated to repurchase any mortgage revenue bond on which the interest has been determined by the IRS to be taxable ordinary income. 7. Risks Related to Investing in Our Company Holding our common shares could result in income taxes without corresponding cash distributions The Company generates taxable and nontaxable income from its remaining mortgage revenue bond holdings and related investments. Effective July 31, 2011 the Company made an election to be taxed as a corporation. Prior to the Election, this income was passed through to our Common Shareholders. For periods in which we did not pay dividends, for periods prior to the Election, Common Shareholders may have a state tax liability with respect to the portion of federally tax exempt interest taxable in their state of residence and no cash distributions to offset that liability. For periods after the Election, the Company will include this income in its consolidated and combined state tax returns where it may be offset by losses generated by other members of the consolidated group. - 15 - Because we hold most of our investments through our subsidiaries, our shareholders are effectively subordinated to the liabilities and equity of our subsidiaries and our preferred shares We hold most of our investments through our subsidiaries. Because we own only common equity of our subsidiaries, we, and therefore holders of our shares, are effectively subordinated to the debt obligations, preferred equity and SCUs of our subsidiaries, which at December 31, 2011, aggregated approximately $1.0 billion. In particular, the holders of the preferred shares of Equity Issuer, our wholly owned bankruptcy-remote subsidiary, are entitled to receive preferential distributions with respect to $159.0 million of residual interest investments it holds. Accordingly, a portion of the cash flow from our investments, particularly certain retained interests, will not be available for distribution on our Common Shares. Likewise if we pay a common dividend in future periods, holders of SCUs issued by our Centerline Capital Company LLC (“CCC”) subsidiary are entitled to receive preferential distributions with respect to the earnings of CCC and its subsidiaries. Our earnings, therefore, may not be available for distribution to our Common Shareholders. We are dependent on our Advisor and may not find a suitable replacement if the Advisor terminates the advisory agreement We have an advisory agreement with Island Centerline Manager LLC (“Advisor”), whereby the Advisor will provide services with respect to various strategic functions that include, among other things: · identification of investment and acquisition opportunities; · advising as to operation and development of our remaining businesses; · advising as to debt and equity financings and hedging activities; · advising as to selection and engagement of professional service providers; and · advising as to negotiations with counterparties with respect to the above. The advisory agreement expires in March 2015, subject to automatic, one-year renewals thereafter unless we or the Advisor give 90-day notice of non-renewal. The advisory agreement may be terminated: · without cause by our Advisor; or · with or without cause by a majority of our Board of Trustees The Advisor can terminate the agreement without penalty, but we are generally subject to a termination fee based on the contracted annual amount and the incentive fee to which the Advisor would be entitled. If our Advisor terminates the advisory agreement, we may not be able to find an adequate replacement Advisor, or we may not be able to hire appropriate personnel to perform the services the Advisor provides. If such an event occurs, it could negatively impact our net income and cash flows. In addition, an affiliate of the Advisor acts as sub-servicer for our servicing portfolio. Should we terminate the sub-servicing agreement, we would be subject to a termination fee based on the annualized fee that the sub-servicer would have earned pursuant to the contract. Should the sub-servicer terminate the agreement, we may not be able to engage a replacement without paying a less favorable rate or perform the function ourselves more economically. Any such termination would also likely be disruptive to our business. We depend upon the services of our executive officers and other employees We and our subsidiaries depend upon the services of our executive officers, other individuals who comprise our executive management team and other key employees, none of whom are subject to employment agreements. All decisions with respect to the management and control of our Company and our subsidiaries, subject to the supervision of our Board of Trustees (or the applicable subsidiary’s board), are currently made by the executive management team and other key members of management are responsible for executing the daily operations of our business. The impact of the economy on our business increases the risk of employee turnover. The departure or the loss of the services of any of these key officers or a large number of senior management personnel and other employees could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business effectively and our future results of operations. Our Board of Trustees can change our business policies unilaterally Our Board of Trustees may amend or revise our business plan and certain other policies without shareholder approval. Therefore, our shareholders have no control over changes in our policies, including our business policies with respect to acquisitions, financing, growth, debt, capitalization and distributions, which are determined by our Board of Trustees. - 16 - There are possible adverse effects arising from potential future issuance of securities or a reverse stock split Our Board of Trustees has the power to authorize the issuance of additional equity or debt securities of our Company and our subsidiaries in exchange for money, property or other consideration. Our ability to sell or exchange such securities will depend on conditions then prevailing in the relevant capital markets and our results of operations, financial condition, investment portfolio and business prospects. As long as the issuance is made in accordance with our trust agreement, the issuance of such additional securities would not be subject to the approval of our shareholders and could negatively affect the resale price of our shares. Shareholders would not have any preemptive rights in connection with the issuance of any additional securities we or our subsidiaries may offer and any of our equity offerings would cause dilution of a shareholder’s investment in us. In March 2010, we issued a new series of shares (the “Special Series A Shares”) that on October 6, 2010 were converted into 289.9 million Common Shares. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, 11.9 million Common Shares remain issuable in exchange for outstanding SCUs. Given the conversion of the Special Series A Shares in October 2010 and the potential conversion of the SCUs to Common Shares, their sale in the public market could, and depending upon the number of involved, likely would, adversely affect prevailing market prices of our shares and our ability to raise additional capital through the equity markets. Our Board of Trustees may determine at some time in the future that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to undertake a reverse share split which would reduce the outstanding number of shares. At our October 6, 2010 shareholders meeting, our shareholders approved an amendment and restatement of our trust agreement which includes amendments granting our Board of Trustees the authority to implement in its sole discretion any future share divisions, splits or combinations, including a reverse share split. Following such approval by the shareholders, the Board is able to implement a reverse share split to reduce the number of outstanding Common Shares and reclassify any unissued Common Shares and shares held in our treasury, which will facilitate any future issuances of shares of beneficial interest by making Common Shares available for reissuance, either as Common Shares or reclassified as preferred shares. In addition, in the event we implement a reverse share split, holders of fractional shares may be required to sell such fractional shares to us for an amount which may be de minimis, in light of the low trading prices of our Common Shares. We may have the ability to issue a greater percentage of Common Shares in relation to our outstanding shares after a reverse share split than we currently have. If we were to issue such shares, it would potentially have a greater dilutive effect on our current holders, depending on the size of the issuance. We currently do not have any plan, commitment, arrangement, understanding or agreement, either written or oral, to issue any additional Common Shares, other than shares otherwise issuable upon conversion or exchange of existing classes and series of our outstanding shares. However, the additional Common Shares would be available for issuance by action of our Board without the need for further action by our shareholders. Any relative increase in our total authorized shares available for issuance could enable our Board to render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of the Company, since the additional shares could be issued to purchasers who support our Board and are opposed to a takeover. We are not currently aware of any pending or proposed transaction involving a change in control. Because any reverse share split would reduce the number of outstanding Common Shares, it could, absent other factors, have the effect of increasing the per share price of the Common Shares. However, factors such as the Company’s financial performance and overall market conditions may adversely affect the price of the Common Shares, independent of the impact of any reverse share split. Due to such factors, there can be no assurance that a reverse share split, if implemented, would result in an increase in the per share price of the Common Shares. Similarly, if the per share price of the Common Shares were to increase due to the effect of a reverse share split, there can be no assurance that the increase would be in proportion to the reduction in the number of shares outstanding before such reverse share split, or that the market price of the Common Shares, after any such increase, would not decrease in the future. In addition, any reverse share split may result in some holders of Common Shares holding “odd lots” of less than 100 shares of Common Shares. Odd lot shares may be more difficult to sell and may lead to increased brokerage/transaction costs relative to “round lots” of multiples of 100 shares. Finally, the value, if any, of any reverse stock split may not immediately be reflected in the trading value of the shares. The effect of any corporate action affecting the outstanding number of Common Shares or Common Share equivalents cannot currently be predicted with any degree of accuracy. Counterparties to our 2010 equity restructuring and current and former members of our management team have significant voting power on matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, and their interests may be in conflict with the interests of our other shareholders In March 2010, we restructured our equity and issued our Special Series A Shares that on October 6, 2010 were converted into 289.9 million Common Shares. A large portion of those shares were issued to C-III Capital Partners LLC (the “Purchaser”) (or together with its affiliates, “C-III”). The Purchaser also purchased additional shares from one of our related parties, The Related Companies, L.P. (“TRCLP”). On a fully diluted basis, the Purchaser’s shares account for more than 38% of our total voting shares. Additionally, we - 17 - · Issued Special Series A Shares (that were later converted to Common Shares) to Natixis in consideration for restructuring certain credit intermediation agreements; · Issued Special Series A Shares (that were later converted to Common Shares) to Bank of America Corporation and Wells Fargo & Co (or to certain of their subsidiaries or affiliates) in conversion of their Convertible CRA Shares. Also, in connection with our acquisition of CAHA in 2003, we issued to each of its selling principals one special preferred voting share for each SCU they received. Our special preferred voting shares have no economic interest, but entitle each holder to one vote per special preferred voting share on all matters subject to a vote of the holders of our Common Shares. None of the selling principals of CAHA who received special preferred voting shares continue to be officers or directors of our Company. As of the date of this filing: · C-III Capital Partners LLC, the Purchaser, holds 139.7 million Common Shares; · Natixis holds 17.8 million Common Shares; · Bank of America Corporation holds 30.9 million Common Shares; · Wells Fargo & Company holds 27.8 million Common Shares; · TRCLP, its owners and TRCLP affiliates hold 10.2 million of the outstanding SCUs and 1.1 million Common Shares; · Former executives of our Company held 1.6 million of the outstanding SCUs. These SCUs are not subject to lock-up agreements and may be converted to Common Shares at any time. As such, if they vote as a block, such shareholders will have significant voting power on all matters submitted to a vote of our Common Shareholders. Shareholders may not be entitled to the same limitation on personal liability as stockholders of private corporations for profit We are governed by the laws of the State of Delaware. Under our trust agreement and the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, as amended (“Delaware Act”), our shareholders will be entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. In general, stockholders of Delaware corporations are not personally liable for the payment of corporate debts and obligations, and are liable only to the extent of their investment in the Delaware corporation. However, a shareholder may be obligated to make certain payments provided for in our trust agreement and bylaws. The properties securing our investments are dispersed in numerous states and the District of Columbia. In jurisdictions which have not adopted legislative provisions regarding statutory trusts similar to those of the Delaware Act, questions exist as to whether such jurisdictions would recognize a statutory trust, absent a state statute, and whether a court in such jurisdiction would recognize the Delaware Act as controlling. If not, a court in such jurisdiction could hold that our shareholders are not entitled to the limitation of liability set forth in our trust agreement and the Delaware Act and, as a result, are personally liable for our debts and obligations. Our anti-takeover provisions may discourage third-party proposals Certain provisions of our trust agreement may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our Company. This could inhibit a change in control of our Company under circumstances that could give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over then-prevailing market prices. Such provisions include the following: Additional Classes and Series of Shares Our trust agreement permits our Board of Trustees to issue additional classes or series of beneficial interests and to establish the preferences and rights of any such securities. Thus, our Board of Trustees could authorize the issuance of beneficial interests with terms and conditions which could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction (see There are possible adverse effects arising from potential future issuance of shares above). The Board of Trustees authorized a rights plan for this purpose as described in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. Staggered Board Our Board of Trustees is divided into three classes of managing trustees. The term of the first class expired in 2011, the terms of the second and third classes will expire in 2012 and 2013, respectively. Managing trustees for each class will be chosen for a three-year term upon the expiration of the current class’ term. The use of a staggered board makes it more difficult for a third-party to acquire control over us. - 18 - If we had to register under the Investment Company Act, there could be negative consequences to our investment strategy Neither we nor our subsidiaries are registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”) and we may not be able to conduct our activities as we currently do if we were required to so register. At all times, we intend to conduct our activities, and those of our subsidiaries, so as not to become regulated as an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act. Even if we are not an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we could be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act if a subsidiary of ours were deemed to be an investment company. There are a number of possible exemptions from registration under the Investment Company Act that we believe apply to us and our subsidiaries and which we believe make it possible for us not to be subject to registration under the Investment Company Act. For example, the Investment Company Act exempts entities that are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate,” which we refer to as “qualifying interests.” Under current interpretations by the SEC staff, one of the ways in which our subsidiaries can qualify for this exemption is to maintain at least 55% of their assets directly in qualifying interests and the balance in real estate-type interests. We believe our subsidiaries can rely on this exemption or another exemption from registration. The requirement that our subsidiaries maintain 55% of their assets in qualifying interests (or satisfy another exemption from registration) may inhibit our ability to acquire certain kinds of assets or to securitize additional interests in the future. If any of our subsidiaries fail to qualify for exemption from registration as an investment company and we, in turn, are required to register as an investment company, our ability to maintain our financing strategies would be substantially reduced, and we would be unable to conduct our business as described herein. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 