ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS IN EVALUATING US, CAREFUL CONSIDERATION SHOULD BE GIVEN TO THE RISK FACTORS SET FORTH BELOW, AS WELL AS THE OTHER INFORMATION SET FORTH IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K. ALTHOUGH THESE RISK FACTORS ARE MANY, THESE FACTORS SHOULD NOT BE REGARDED AS CONSTITUTING THE ONLY RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESSES. EACH OF THESE RISK FACTORS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS AND/OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. IN ADDITION TO THE FOLLOWING DISCLOSURES, PLEASE REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT INCLUDING THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES. UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, ALL RISK FACTORS LISTED BELOW SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ATTRIBUTABLE TO ALL OUR OPERATIONS INCLUDING ALL OPERATIONS CLASSIFIED AS DISCONTINUED. We may be unable to obtain satisfaction of all conditions to complete our merger with Eastman Chemical Company, including the approval of our stockholders, in the anticipated timeframe. On January 26, 2012, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Eastman Chemical Company (“Eastman”) and Eagle Merger Sub Corporation (“Merger Sub”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Eastman. The Merger Agreement provides for the merger of Merger Sub with and into Solutia, with Solutia surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Eastman (the “Merger”), on the terms of the Merger Agreement. At the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding share of our common stock will be converted into the right to receive (i) $22.00 in cash, without interest, and (ii) 0.120 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Eastman (collectively, the “Merger Consideration”). Completion of the Merger is contingent upon customary closing conditions, including approval of the Merger by our stockholders. If our stockholders do not approve the Merger at the special stockholder meetings to be held after the related proxy statement/prospective is effective, the Merger will not be consummated. Completion of the Merger is also conditioned upon the receipt of certain U.S. and foreign governmental clearances or approvals, including, but not limited to, the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period, or receipt of approval under the Hart−Scott−Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and approvals from foreign antitrust regulators, including, but not limited to, the European Commission, China and South Korea. As a condition to approval of the Merger, governmental authorities may impose requirements, limitations or costs; require divestitures; or place restrictions on the conduct of the business of the combined company after the completion of the Merger. Although Solutia and Eastman have agreed in the Merger Agreement to use reasonable best efforts to consummate the Merger as promptly as practicable, these and the other conditions to the Merger may fail to be satisfied. In addition, satisfying the conditions to, and completion of, the Merger may take longer than, and could cost more than, we expect. Any delay in completing the Merger may adversely affect the benefits that Solutia and Eastman expect to achieve from the Merger and the integration of our businesses. In addition, failure to complete the Merger may adversely affect Solutia. Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact our stock price, future business and financial results. The conditions to the completion of the Merger may not be satisfied as noted above. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, we will be subject to several risks, including the following: · being required to pay certain costs relating to the Merger, including certain investment banking, financing, legal and accounting fees and expenses, whether or not the Merger is completed; · having had the focus of our management directed towards the Merger and integration planning instead of our core business and other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us; · a decrease in the price of our common stock to the extent that the current market price of the stock reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed or as a result of the market’s perceptions that the Merger was not consummated due to an adverse change in our business; and · a lack of alternative business combination transactions that would create stockholder value comparable to the value perceived to be created by the Merger in the event our Board of Directors determines to seek an alternative transaction. In addition, we would not realize any of the expected benefits of having completed the Merger and would continue to have risks that we currently face as an independent company. For example, our business may be harmed, and the price of our stock may decline as a result, to the extent that employees, customers, suppliers, and others believe that we cannot compete in the marketplace as effectively without the Merger or otherwise remain uncertain about our future prospects in the absence of the Merger. 10 The Merger Agreement restricts the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the Merger and limits our ability to pursue an alternative acquisition proposal to the Merger. Under the Merger Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the Merger which may adversely affect our ability to exercise certain of our business strategies. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. In addition, the Merger Agreement prohibits us from initiating, soliciting or knowingly encouraging the submission of, participating or engaging in any negotiations or discussions with respect to certain alternative acquisition proposals with third parties, subject to exceptions set forth in the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement also provides that we are required to pay a termination fee of $102 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, including if we terminate to accept an alternative acquisition proposal. These provisions limit our ability to pursue offers from third parties that could result in greater value to our stockholders than the value resulting from the Merger. The termination fee may also discourage third parties from pursuing an acquisition proposal with respect to Solutia. Because the market price of shares of Eastman common stock will fluctuate and the exchange ratio that forms a part of the Merger Consideration in the Merger will not be adjusted to reflect such fluctuations, Solutia stockholders cannot be sure of the value of the stock portion of the Merger Consideration they will receive in the Merger. At the effective time of the Merger, each share of our common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger will be converted into the right to receive $22.00 in cash, without interest, and 0.120 shares of validly issued, fully-paid and non-assessable shares of common stock of Eastman common stock. The number of shares of Eastman common stock to be issued pursuant to the Merger Agreement for each share of Solutia common stock will not change to reflect changes in the market price of Eastman or Solutia common stock. The market price of Eastman common stock at the time of completion of the Merger may vary significantly from the market prices of Eastman common stock on the date the Merger Agreement was executed or at other later dates, including the date on which Solutia stockholders vote on the adoption of the Merger Agreement. Because we will not adjust the exchange ratio to reflect any changes in the market value of Eastman common stock or Solutia common stock, the market value of the Eastman common stock issued in connection with the merger and the Solutia common stock surrendered in connection with the merger may be higher or lower than the values of those shares on earlier dates. Stock price changes may result from market reaction to the announcement of the merger and market assessment of the likelihood that the merger will be completed, changes in the business, operations or prospects of Eastman or Solutia prior to or following the merger, regulatory considerations, general business, market, industry or economic conditions and other factors both within and beyond the control of Eastman and Solutia. If the Merger is completed, the combined company may not be able to successfully integrate the business of Solutia and Eastman and therefore may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger. At the effective time of the Merger, each share of our common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger will be converted into the right to receive $22.00 in cash, without interest, and 0.120 shares of validly issued, fully-paid and non-assessable shares of common stock of Eastman common stock. Because a portion of the Merger Consideration consists of Eastman common stock, realization of the anticipated benefits in the Merger will depend, in part, on the combined company’s ability to successfully integrate the businesses and operations of Eastman and us. The combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating its business practices, operations, and support functions. The process of integrating Eastman’s and our operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the combined company’s business and financial performance. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the Merger and the integration of the two companies’ operations could have an adverse effect on the business, financial results, financial condition, or stock price of Eastman (as the combined company following the Merger). The integration process may also result in additional and unforeseen expenses. There can be no assurance that the contemplated expense savings and synergies anticipated from the Merger will be realized. Pending litigation against us, Eastman, Merger Sub and our directors could result in an injunction preventing completion of the Merger, or the payment of damages in the event the Merger is completed and/or may adversely affect the combined company’s business, financial condition or results of operations following the Merger. Since the announcement on January 27, 2012 of the signing of the Merger Agreement, Solutia, Eastman, as well as the members of our Board of Directors, have been named as defendants in several lawsuits purportedly brought by our stockholders challenging the proposed Merger. The lawsuits generally allege, among other things, that the Merger fails to properly value Solutia, that the individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties in approving the Merger Agreement and that those breaches were aided and abetted by Eastman. The lawsuits seek, among other things, injunctive relief to enjoin the defendants from completing the Merger on the agreed−upon terms, monetary relief and attorneys’ fees and costs. One of the conditions to the closing of the Merger is that no injunction preventing the consummation of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement shall be in effect and that no statute, rule, regulation, order, injunction or decree shall have been enacted, entered, promulgated or enforced by any governmental entity that prohibits or makes illegal the consummation of the Merger. Consequently, if the plaintiffs secure injunctive or other relief prohibiting, delaying, or otherwise adversely affecting the defendants’ ability to complete the Merger, then such injunctive or other relief may prevent the Merger from becoming effective within the expected time frame or at all. If completion of the Merger is prevented or delayed, it could result in substantial costs to us and Eastman. In addition, we and Eastman could incur significant costs in connection with the lawsuits, including costs associated with the indemnification of our directors and officers. See also Legal Proceedings — Litigation for more information about the lawsuits that have been filed related to the Merger. 11 Because our consolidated financial statements reflect fresh-start accounting adjustments made upon emergence from bankruptcy, and because of the effects of the transactions that became effective pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization, financial information in our future financial statements will not be comparable to our financial information from periods that precede our emergence from bankruptcy nor will our financial statements be comparable to those of our peers. Upon our emergence from Chapter 11 in February 2008, we adopted fresh-start accounting in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 852, Reorganizations, pursuant to which our reorganization value, which represents the fair value of the entity before considering liabilities and approximates the amount a willing buyer would pay for the assets of the entity immediately after the reorganization, has been allocated to the fair value of assets in conformity with ASC 805, Business Combinations, using the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. We stated liabilities, other than deferred taxes, at a present value of amounts expected to be paid. The amount remaining after allocation of the reorganization value to the fair value of identified tangible and intangible assets is reflected as goodwill, which is subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. In addition, under fresh-start accounting the accumulated deficit has been eliminated. In addition to fresh-start accounting, our consolidated financial statements reflect all effects of the transactions contemplated by the Plan of Reorganization. Thus, our future statements of financial position and statements of operations data will not be comparable in many respects to our consolidated statements of financial position and consolidated statements of operations data for periods prior to our adoption of fresh-start accounting and prior to accounting for the effects of the reorganization. Additionally, when comparing our financial performance to that of our peers, the requirement to fair value our assets and liabilities on our balance sheet will generally result in our having a significantly higher amortization rate than our peers. Consequently, our financial statements may not be comparable to those of our peers. Moreover, stemming from our emergence from Chapter 11, the carrying amount of our goodwill and intangible assets was established at fair value as of February 28, 2008 and therefore is more susceptible to impairment if business operation results and/or macroeconomic conditions significantly deteriorate. Negative or uncertain worldwide economic conditions may adversely impact our business. Our operations and performance are materially affected by worldwide economic conditions. In periods with significant market turmoil and tightened credit availability, we may experience difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, pricing pressure on products and services and reduced global business activity. A global economic downturn may reduce demand for our products, which would decrease our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. Our operations in Europe continue to be impacted by the uncertain European economic conditions. While we currently premise that, in the aggregate, our business in Europe will grow slowly, a currency or financial crisis in Europe could precipitate a significant decline in the European economy, which would likely result in a decrease in demand for our products sold in Europe. Our operations are restricted by our credit facilities and could be impacted by the failure of our lenders to perform. Our credit facilities and our indentures governing the 2017 and 2020 senior unsecured notes include a number of significant restrictive covenants. These covenants could impair our financing and operational flexibility and make it difficult for us to react to market conditions and satisfy our ongoing capital needs and unanticipated cash requirements. Specifically, such covenants restrict our ability and, if applicable, the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: · incur additional debt; · make certain investments and acquisitions; · enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; · use assets as security in other transactions; · pay dividends on our common stock or repurchase our equity interests; · sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; · guarantee the debts of others; · enter into new lines of business; · make capital expenditures; · prepay, redeem or exchange our debt; · form any joint ventures or subsidiary investments. In addition, our current credit facilities require us to satisfy certain financial covenants. These financial covenants and tests could limit our ability to react to market conditions or satisfy extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing and operations. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we would be required to obtain waivers from our lenders to maintain compliance with our debt obligations. If we are unable to obtain any necessary waivers and the debt is accelerated, a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future operating performance would result. Our current revolving credit facility is a syndicated credit agreement in which each lender is severally liable for only its agreed part of the loan commitments. One or more lender’s failure to perform on their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to fund its ongoing operations and other commitments. 12 We have significant indebtedness. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our significant indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: · We will have to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow to making interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. · Certain levels of indebtedness may make us less attractive to potential acquirers or acquisition targets. · Certain levels of indebtedness may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions, and make us more vulnerable to downturns in general economic conditions as compared to competitors that may be less leveraged. · As described in more detail above, the documents providing for our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that may limit our financing and operational flexibility. Our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations will depend, among other things, upon fluctuations in interest rates, our future operating performance and ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. These factors depend partly on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. We have hedged a significant portion of our variable rate debt with derivative instruments. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our debt service obligations as well as fund necessary capital expenditures, pension funding obligations and investments in research and development. In addition, if we need to refinance our debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets or equity, we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Finally, counterparties to our derivative instruments may not be able to honor their contractual obligations. Volatility in the prices of raw materials and energy or their reduced availability could significantly impact our operating margins. Our manufacturing processes consume significant amounts of energy and large amounts of commodity raw materials, including benzene, vinyl acetate, sulfur, polyvinyl alcohol, 2-ethyl hexanol, ethylene-vinyl-acetate resin, polyethylene film and napthenic processing oil, the cost of which are subject to worldwide supply and demand as well as other factors beyond our control. Also, temporary shortages or over supply of these raw materials and energy sources may occasionally occur. We typically purchase major requirements for key raw materials under medium-term contracts. Pricing under these contracts may fluctuate as a result of unscheduled plant interruptions, worldwide market conditions and government regulation. Volatile raw material and energy costs could impact our operating margins in the future. See also Business – Raw Materials and Energy Resources. Problems encountered in operating our production facilities could adversely impact our business. Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unscheduled down time and environmental hazards. While we have had infrequent incidents in the past, there is no guarantee that we won’t experience temporarily shut down or otherwise other disruptions in our manufacturing, which could lead to production delays and result in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of our production facilities. In addition, some of our products involve the manufacture or handling of a variety of reactive, explosive and flammable materials. Use of these products by our employees, customers and contractors could result in liability to us if an explosion, fire, spill or other accident were to occur. The utilization of our net deferred tax assets could be substantially limited if we experienced an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Code. As of December 31, 2011, we have deferred tax assets of $477 million related to our U.S. net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforward and $193 million related to our U.S. tax credit carryforward. We have recorded a valuation allowance against each of these assets. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change to utilize its NOL and tax credit carryforwards. Under the rules, such an ownership change is generally any change in ownership of more than 50 percent of its stock within a rolling three-year period, as calculated in accordance with the rules. The rules generally operate by focusing on changes in ownership among stockholders considered by the rules as owning directly or indirectly 5 percent or more of the stock of the company and any change in ownership arising from new issuances of stock by the company. 13 If we undergo an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, our ability to use any of our NOL and tax credit carryforwards, at the time of the ownership change would be subject to the limitations of Section 382. The limitation could operate to cause the benefit of the assets to expire before they are utilized. Our inability to use the full benefits of our NOL and tax credit carryforwards could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. We believe we have not experienced a subsequent ownership change since we experienced an initial ownership change on February 28, 2008, the date we emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy. However, the amount by which our ownership may change in the future could be affected by purchases and sales of common stock by 5 percent stockholders over which we have no control, and new issuances of common stock by us, should we choose to do so. In July 2009, our Board of Directors adopted a Section 382 rights agreement as a measure intended to deter such an ownership change in order to preserve our deferred tax assets. The Section 382 rights agreement, however, may not prevent an ownership change. In addition, while the Section 382 rights agreement is in effect, it could discourage or prevent a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or accumulations of substantial blocks of shares for which some stockholders might receive a premium above market value. It could also adversely affect the liquidity of the market for our shares. We operate in a highly competitive industry that includes competitors with greater resources than ours. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive. Competition in these markets is based on a number of factors, such as price, product, quality and service. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technological and other resources and may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Consolidation of our competitors or customers may also adversely affect our businesses. Furthermore, global competition and customer demands for efficiency will continue to make price increases difficult. We operate in cyclical business segments and our financial results are likely to fluctuate accordingly. We operate in cyclical business segments. Specifically, a substantial portion of our sales are to customers involved, directly or indirectly, in the commercial and residential real estate and automotive industries, all of which are, by their nature, cyclical industries. A downturn in either or both of these industries would and has in the past, and may again in the future, result in lower demand for our products among customers involved in those industries and a reduced ability to pass on cost increases to these customers. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our sales and financial performance could be adversely affected. We own a large number of patents that relate to a wide variety of products and processes and have a substantial number of patent applications pending. We own a considerable number of established trademarks in many countries under which we market our products. These patents and trademarks in the aggregate are of material importance to the operations of our businesses. Our performance may depend in part on our ability to establish, protect and enforce such intellectual property and to defend against any claims of infringement, which could involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions and uncertainties. In the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. If litigation that we initiate is unsuccessful, we may not be able to protect the value of some of our intellectual property. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties or license fees to continue to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using or we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable period of time. If we are unable to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, we may be forced to cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, or to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and may be time-consuming. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of some of our resources. Our intellectual property rights may not have the value that we believe them to have, which could result in a competitive disadvantage or adversely affect our business and financial performance. See also Business – Intellectual Property. Legal proceedings may have a materially negative impact on our future results of operations. We are, and may in the future be, subject to various lawsuits and other legal proceedings, including proceedings related to contract, environmental and other regulatory matters. We may also become subject to lawsuits by our customers, distributors and employees alleging personal injury or product liability associated with our products and businesses. Adverse judgments or rulings against us in these legal proceedings, or the filing of additional environmental or other damage claims against us, may have a materially negative impact on our future results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Additionally, we may incur significant administrative and legal costs associated with defending or settling litigation. 14 As more fully described under “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings,” we are currently involved in various “Legacy Tort Claims,” which include claims for property damage, personal injury, products liability or premises liability or other damages arising out of or related to exposure to asbestos, PCB, dioxin, benzene, vinyl chloride, silica, butadiene, pentachlorophenol, styrene tars and other chemicals manufactured before our spinoff from Pharmacia Corporation. Monsanto is responsible to defend and indemnify us for any Legacy Tort Claims under the settlement agreement entered into between us and Monsanto in connection with our emergence from Chapter 11. To the extent that Monsanto averts responsibility for any Legacy Tort Claims, Pharmacia will bear financial responsibility for such claims. However, if any purported Legacy Tort Claim relates to exposure arising from our conduct occurring after our spinoff from Pharmacia Corporation or does not otherwise qualify as a Legacy Tort Claim, we could be liable for any adverse rulings, judgments or settlements relating thereto, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The applicability of numerous environmental laws to our manufacturing facilities and other locations could cause to incur material costs and liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, safety and health laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to land and water and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and the distribution of chemical substances. We are also required to maintain various environmental permits and licenses, many of which require periodic notification and renewal of related governmental approvals. Our operations entail the risk of violations of these regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. In addition, these requirements and their enforcement may become more stringent in the future. Non-compliance with such future requirements could subject us to material liabilities, such as government fines, third-party lawsuits or the suspicion of non-compliant operations. Future requirements may also result in our making significant site or operational modifications at substantial cost. Future regulatory and enforcement developments could also restrict or eliminate our ability to continue to manufacture certain products or could require us to make modifications to our products. At any given time, we are involved in litigation, administrative proceedings and investigations of various types in a number of jurisdictions involving potential environmental liabilities, including clean-up costs associated with contaminated sites, natural resource damages, property damages and personal injury. We may be required to spend substantial sums to defend or settle these and other actions, to pay any fines levied against us or satisfy any judgments or other rulings rendered against us and such sums may be material. Under certain environmental laws, we can be held strictly liable for hazardous substance contamination at real property we have owned, operated or used as a disposal site for our natural resource damages associated with such contamination. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated site can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. One liable party can be held responsible for all costs at a site, regardless of fault, percentage of contribution to the site or the legality of the original disposal. As described in more detail above and in the following paragraph, we could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, natural resource damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims as a result of hazardous substance contamination. We have made and will continue to make substantial expenditures for environmental and regulatory compliance and remediation projects. The substantial amounts that we may be required to spend on environmental capital projects and programs could cause substantial cash outlays and, accordingly, could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity and profitability or limit our financial and operating flexibility. In addition, although we believe that we have correctly budgeted and, to the extent appropriate under applicable accounting principles, reserved for these amounts, factors beyond our control may render these budgeted and reserved amounts inadequate. These factors include changing governmental policies and regulations; the commencement of new governmental proceedings or third party litigation regarding environmental remediation; new releases of hazardous substances that result in personal injury, property damage or harm to the environment; and the discovery of unknown conditions of contamination or unforeseen problems encountered in the environmental remediation programs. Our Chapter 11 case was caused, in significant part, by an accumulation of legacy liabilities, including, among others, “legacy environmental liability” arising from historical operations of Pharmacia prior to the Solutia Spinoff. In the course of the Chapter 11 case we achieved a substantial reallocation of the risk from these legacy liabilities. In particular, pursuant to the settlement agreement entered into between Monsanto and us, Monsanto agreed to be financially responsible for remediation costs and other environmental liabilities for sites owned, operated or used by Pharmacia but never owned, operated or used by us after the Solutia Spinoff; to share liabilities with respect to offsite areas at the Sauget and Anniston plant sites; and to be financially responsible for personal injury and property damage claims associated with exposures to hazardous substances arising from legacy Pharmacia operations (so-called “Legacy Toxic Tort Claims”). If Monsanto and/or Pharmacia fail to honor their respective obligation with respect to such remediation costs or Legacy Toxic Tort Claims, we could become responsible for some or all of such liabilities except for the remediation costs and other environmental liabilities for sites owned, operated or used by Pharmacia but never owned, operated or used by us for which Solutia received a discharge under the Plan which liabilities could be material. See also Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Environmental Matters. 15 We face currency and other risks associated with international sales. Sales and operations outside the United States constituted a majority of our revenues in fiscal 2011. Our operations outside the United States expose us to risks including fluctuations in currency values, trade restrictions, tariff and trade regulations, U.S. export controls, reduced protection of intellectual property rights; foreign tax laws, shipping delays, economic and political instability; the effect of global health, safety and environmental matters on economic conditions and market opportunities and changes in financial policy. The functional currency of each of our non-U.S. operations is generally the local currency. Exchange rates between some of these currencies and U.S. dollars have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the future. It is possible that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates will have a negative effect on our results of operations. Many of our products and manufacturing processes are subject to technological change and our business will suffer if we fail to keep pace. Many of the markets in which our products (and their corresponding manufacturing processes) compete are subject to technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. We must continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved capabilities to continue to be a market leader. We must also continue to make improvements in our manufacturing processes and productivity to maintain our competitive position. When we invest in new technologies, processes or production facilities, we will face risks related to construction delays, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical difficulties. Our inability to anticipate, respond to, capitalize on or utilize changing technologies could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in any given period. We may engage in acquisitions that could disrupt our business and harm our operating results or financial condition. We may make selective domestic and international acquisitions of and investments in businesses that represent synergistic bolt-ons to our existing businesses or represent one or more businesses in the performance material and specialty chemical sector that would be new platforms for the Company. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment, alliance, or joint venture opportunities or consummate any such transactions or relationships on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Further, notwithstanding thorough pre-acquisition due diligence and careful analysis performed by the Company, we may not have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such acquired assets and such transaction that we enter into may not be as successful as the Company’s premises as of the acquisition date. These transactions or any other acquisitions or dispositions involve risks and uncertainties, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. A critical component of the success of certain acquisitions is the Company’s ability to quickly and effectively integrate the acquired business or businesses into Solutia. Also, these integration efforts could result in disruption to other parts of our business and the diversion of management’s attention from daily operations. Any acquisition may also cause us to assume liabilities, record goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential impairment charges, incur significant restructuring charges and increased working capital and capital expenditure requirements, which would reduce our return on invested capital. Changes in supply-demand balance in the regions and the industries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial results. Our key markets are shifting from mature markets such as North America and Western Europe to emerging regions such as Asia, in particular China and India. Although we are responding to meet these market demand conditions, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in expanding capacity in emerging regions (which depends in part on economic and political conditions in these regions and, in some cases, on our ability to acquire or form strategic business alliances) or in reducing capacity in mature regions commensurate with industry demand. 16 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 