Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is inherently risky. You should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission in evaluating our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business may be seriously impaired by the announcement of the pending acquisition of us by Freescale or if the acquisition is delayed or is not completed. On February 3, 2008, we announced that we had entered into a merger agreement to be acquired by Freescale. Our expectation is that the merger will close in the second quarter of calendar 2008. The announcement of the merger could have negative effects on our business in a number of areas including, but not limited to, the following: • if customers delay, defer or cancel purchases pending consummation of the planned merger, our revenues would be adversely impacted; • current and prospective customers could be reluctant to purchase our products and services due to potential uncertainty about the combined company’s product offerings and its support and servicing of our existing products; and • the uncertainty surrounding the proposed merger may also cause employee turnover or impair our ability to hire new employees. The merger agreement provides for numerous conditions to closing, many of which are beyond our control. Any failure to conclude the pending merger could have negative effects on our business in a number of areas including, but not limited to, the following: • our business reputation within the investment community may be damaged, and we may be perceived as a less attractive acquisition candidate by other companies; • activities relating to the merger may divert our management’s attention from our business and cause disruptions among our employees and our relationships with customers and business partners, thus detracting from our ability to grow revenue and minimize costs and possibly leading to a loss of revenue and market position that we may not be able to regain if the transaction does not occur; • as we have provided Freescale with access to our confidential information, personnel and business plans and strategies through the course of its due diligence investigation of us, not all of which may be protected under the terms of our non-disclosure agreement with Freescale, Freescale has the knowledge and the means to become a formidable competitor with us either through the potential acquisition of one or more of our current competitors or through the internal development of competitive product offerings; • our employee morale could be negatively affected and we could suffer the loss of key employees or members of our management team; • current and prospective customers could delay or alter their buying decisions while they assess the impact on us of remaining an independent company; • our financial condition will have been weakened as a result of the costs incurred in connection with the proposed merger with Freescale and our other merger activities during 2007 and 2008, such as legal, accounting and certain investment banking fees, which costs we expect to be significant; • our stock price could fall, perhaps precipitously, which could subject us to lawsuits from our stockholders in which they may seek the recovery of substantial damages; and • we could, under certain circumstances, be required to pay Freescale a termination fee of up to $4.785 million. Restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the proposed merger with Freescale may have a negative impact on our operating results. We have agreed to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business in connection with the proposed merger with Freescale, that require us to conduct our business only in the ordinary course, subject to specific limitations. These restrictions may delay or prevent us from undertaking business opportunities that may arise pending completion of the transaction. We do not expect to return to our historic growth rate in the future. We have incurred net losses in prior quarterly and annual periods, and we will likely incur losses in the future. If we cannot return to sustained profitability and positive cash flows from our operations, our liquidity and ability to operate our business effectively could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents We have faced a number of challenges that have affected our operating results, including extreme competition in the portable multimedia SoCs market, continuing erosion of average selling prices of our portable multimedia SoCs, delays in delivering new product features to existing and new customers, and price volatility and shortages of other components used to build our customers’ devices. We have incurred net losses in the past and we will likely continue to incur net losses in the future. We recognized a net loss of $37.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and a net loss of $109.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Our operating activities used $23.3 million of cash in the year ended December 31, 2007 and $49.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Although we have taken and are continuing to take steps to address these challenges and to improve our cash flows and results of operations, we cannot provide assurance that we will return to profitability or positive cash flows on a quarterly or annual basis. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future operating performance. If we continue to experience negative cash flow from operations over a prolonged period of time, or if we suffer unexpected cash outflows, our liquidity and ability to operate our business effectively could be adversely affected. Our ability to become profitable again and to maintain profitability depends on the rate of growth of our target markets, the continued market acceptance of our customers’ products, the competitive position of our products, and our ability to develop new products. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the value or reduce the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. At December 31, 2007, we had $20.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $50.7 million in investments in marketable debt securities. We have historically invested these amounts in state and municipal notes which may have an auction reset feature, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, and money market funds meeting certain criteria. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. In the future, these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. At December 31, 2007, we held approximately $45.8 million of state and municipal notes investments, classified as current assets, with an auction reset feature (“auction rate securities”) whose underlying assets are generally student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government as part of the Federal Family Loan Program (“FFELP”). In February 2008, auctions failed for $24.9 million of our auction rate securities and there is no assurance that previously successful auctions on the other auction rate securities in our investment portfolio will continue to succeed and as a result our ability to liquidate our investment and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited or not exist. An auction failure is not a default. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell securities could not because the number of sellers was greater than the number of buyers. In instances where failures occur, the interest rate is reset to a specified maximum rate rather than a market clearing rate. The maximum rate is a stated spread over a benchmark rate that will differ by security. The maximum rate for student loan backed securities is typically not substantially higher than the market determined rate of successful auctions. All of our auction rate securities, including those subject to the failure, are currently rated AAA, the highest rating, by a rating agency. If the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. If we are required to sell these securities in order to meet cash needs in markets other than a successful auction, we could be required to accept less than the face value and therefore recognize a loss. The average selling prices of our products have in the past and could continue to decrease rapidly which may negatively impact our revenues and gross profits. We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results due to the erosion of our average selling prices, particularly for our portable multimedia SoCs. We have in the past and expect in the future to reduce the average unit prices of our products in anticipation of or in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and due to other factors. If we are unable to offset any such reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing production costs, and developing and introducing new or enhanced products at higher prices, our gross profits and revenues will suffer. To maintain our gross profit percentage, we will need to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continually reduce our costs. Our failure to do so would cause our revenues and gross profit percentage to decline. The recent changes in our organization, including management resignations, acquisitions and dispositions, attrition, reductions in force, and cost cutting measures, have placed a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources, and the continued success of our business depends on our ability to successfully manage these changes. Our organization has changed rapidly and further organizational changes may be required to address our strategic objectives. Our organization has changed through acquisitions and dispositions, opening international locations and through increasing and reducing headcount. We announced the resignation of our former Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers in January 2007 and 13 Table of Contents December 2006, respectively. We also eliminated approximately 200 positions globally during the last 12 months, and implemented additional cost cutting measures during the third quarter of 2007. In January 2007, we announced the refocus of our business on our core product markets of portable multimedia players, printers and digital televisions, and our departure from the digital video camera, USB and infrared peripheral, and certain consumer audio codec markets. These changes have placed, and any future changes will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. If we are unable to manage these organizational changes effectively, including effectively implementing cost cutting measures, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new products, enhance our technological capabilities, satisfy customer requirements, execute on our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. We cannot assure you that our cost cutting measures, as implemented, will be effective. We may also experience unanticipated effects from these measures causing harm to our business and customer relationships. In April 2007, we implemented a global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to help us improve our planning and management processes. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, challenges with the new ERP system and other related systems that could adversely affect our business by disrupting our ability to timely and accurately process certain transactions necessary for our operations. We depend on a few key customers for a majority of our sales and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of them would likely significantly reduce our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2007, sales to our top five customers accounted for approximately 55.9% of our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2006, sales to our top five customers accounted for approximately 49.4% of our revenues. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that use our ICs. Our revenues would likely decline if one or more of these customers were to significantly reduce, delay or cancel their orders for any reason. In addition, any difficulty in collecting outstanding amounts due from our customers, particularly customers who place large orders, would harm our financial performance. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our ICs at all, purchase fewer ICs than they did in the past or alter their purchasing patterns, particularly because: • we do not have material long-term purchase contracts with our customers; • substantially all of our sales to date have been made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; • some of our customers may have efforts underway to actively diversify their vendor base which could reduce purchases of our ICs; and • some of our customers have developed or acquired products that compete directly with products these customers purchase from us, which could affect our customers’ purchasing decisions in the future. While we have been a significant supplier of ICs used in many of our customers’ products, our customers regularly evaluate alternative sources of supply in order to diversify their supplier base, which increases their negotiating leverage with us and protects their ability to secure these components. We believe that any expansion of our customers’ supplier bases could have an adverse effect on the prices we are able to charge and volume of product that we are able to sell to our customers, which would negatively affect our revenues and operating results. We depend on our executive officers and other key personnel to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We rely heavily on the services of our key employees, including our senior management. Our analog designers and other key technical personnel represent a significant asset and serve as an important source of our technological and product innovations. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel, on developing their successors and certain internal processes to reduce our reliance on specific individuals, and on properly managing the transition of key roles when necessary. Any of our current employees may terminate their employment with us at any time. The competition for such personnel is intense in our industry. In particular, there is a shortage of engineers who are familiar with the intricacies of the design and manufacturability of analog elements. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of technical personnel to support our current or anticipated needs. The loss of any of our key employees or our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers, could delay the development and introduction of our products, or otherwise harm our ability to carry out our business strategy and compete with other companies. During the period prior to the closing of the merger with Freescale, we may be at increased risk for the loss of key employees or senior management due to the uncertainty associated with such proposed transaction. Failure to manage our distribution relationships could impede our future revenues. 14 Table of Contents Sales to a small number of distributors generate a significant amount of our revenues. Our sales through distributors accounted for 33.1% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, and 35.9% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. If our distributors were to materially reduce their purchases from us, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. Our business depends on our ability to maintain our relationships with distributors, and develop additional channels for the distribution and sale of our products and effectively manage these relationships. Our distributors decide whether to include our products among those that they sell and may carry and sell product lines that are competitive with ours. Because our distributors are not required to make a specified minimum level of purchases from us, we cannot be sure that they will prioritize selling our products. As we continue to depend on our indirect sales capabilities, we will need to manage the potential conflicts that may arise within our direct sales force. For example, conflicts with a distributor may arise when a customer begins purchasing directly from us rather than through the distributor. In addition, relationships with our distributors often involve the use of price protection and inventory return rights. To manage these relationships properly, often requires a significant amount of sales management’s time and system resources. We also rely on our distributors to accurately and timely report to us their sales of our products and to provide certain engineering support services to customers. Our inability to obtain accurate and timely reports and to successfully manage these relationships would adversely affect our business and financial results, and could impact the effectiveness of our internal controls. Our business is highly dependent on the consumer electronics market, which is characterized by short product life cycles, fluctuations in demand and seasonality, and is subject to risks related to product transitions and supply of other components. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of products that are used in consumer electronic devices. The consumer electronics market is characterized by intense competition, rapidly evolving technology, and ever-changing consumer preferences. These factors result in the frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles and significant price competition. The dynamic nature of this market limits our, as well as our customers’, ability to accurately forecast quarterly and annual sales. If we, or our customers, are unable to manage product transitions, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. For example, if our customers were to transition from one type of flash memory to another type of flash memory and our product is not compatible with the new type of flash memory, sales of our ICs would be adversely affected if we were unable to update our product in a timely manner. Further, our customers may choose to replace our products with products of our competitors if we fail to implement our new products within given time constraints. In addition, we are subject to the risk of price volatility and supply problems with other components of the end products of our customers. For example, if our customers could not obtain sufficient supplies of flash memory, a key component in many portable multimedia players, the sales of our products that are also included in such players would be adversely affected. We believe that any such flash memory supply constraints and price volatility could cause our customers to purchase fewer portable multimedia SoCs than they might otherwise purchase, thus negatively affecting our business and revenue. Furthermore, continuing technological advancement in consumer electronic devices, which is a significant driver of customer demand, is largely beyond our control. Because many of our ICs are designed for use in consumer electronic products, such as portable multimedia players, printers, and digital televisions, we expect our business to be subject to seasonality, with increased revenue in the third and fourth quarters of each year, when customers place orders to meet year-end holiday demand, and lower revenue in the first and second quarters of each year. However, our revenues have historically been volatile, which makes it difficult for us to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. If we or our customers are unable to ramp up production of new or existing products to meet any increases in demand due to seasonality or other factors, our revenues from such products would be adversely affected. Because of the lengthy sales cycles for our products and the fixed nature of a significant portion of our expenses, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenues and may not ultimately achieve our forecasted sales for our products. Our sales cycles can take up to 18 months to complete and volume production of products that use our ICs can take an additional three to six months to be achieved, if at all. Sales cycles for our products are lengthy for a number of reasons, including the following: • our customers usually complete an in-depth technical evaluation of our products before they place a purchase order; • the commercial adoption of our products by OEMs and ODMs is typically limited during the initial release of their product to evaluate product performance and consumer demand; • new product introductions often center around key trade shows and failure to deliver a product prior to such an event can seriously delay introduction of a product; and • the development and commercial introduction of products incorporating new technology frequently are delayed. As a result of our lengthy sales cycles, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenues because a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed and based on expected revenues. The lengthy sales cycles of our products make forecasting the volume and timing of orders difficult. In addition, the delays inherent in lengthy sales cycles raise additional risks that customers may cancel or change their orders. Our sales are made by purchase orders. Because industry practice 15 Table of Contents allows customers to reschedule or cancel orders on relatively short notice, backlog is not always a good indicator of our future sales. If customer cancellations or product changes occur, this could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from our portable multimedia SoCs, the selling prices of which tend to decline over time, and if we are unable to develop and introduce successful new products in a timely and cost-effective manner or to achieve market acceptance of our new products, our operating results and competitive position could be harmed. Sales of our portable multimedia SoCs accounted for 73.0% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, and for 75.3% or our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Our future success depends on our ability to develop successful new products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and to convince customers to select these products for design into their own new products. Our products are generally incorporated into our customers’ products at the design stage. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new product without any assurance that a potential customer will select our product for design into its own product. Once a potential customer designs a competitor’s product into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that customer because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. Even if a potential customer designs one of our products into its product offering, we have no assurances that its product will be commercially successful or that we will receive any revenue from sales of that product. Sales of our products largely depend on the commercial success of our customers’ products. Our customers are typically not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if their own products are not commercially successful or for any other reason. We are required to continually evaluate expenditures for planned product developments and choose among alternatives based upon our expectations of future market trends. From time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner or that our products will generate significant revenues. The development of our ICs is highly complex, and successful product development and market acceptance of our products depend on a number of factors, including the following: • our accurate prediction of the changing requirements of our customers and evolving industry standards; • our timely completion and introduction of new designs; • our ability to successfully develop and implement the software necessary to integrate our products into our customers’ products; • our ability to license any desired third party technology or intellectual property rights; • the ability to transition customers from one generation of our products to the next; • the availability of third-party manufacturing, assembly, and test capacity; • the ability of our foundries to achieve high manufacturing yields for our products; • our ability to transition to smaller manufacturing process geometries to achieve lower cost and higher levels of design integration; • the quality, price, performance, power efficiency and size of our products and those of our competitors; • our management of our indirect sales channels; • the availability, quality, price and performance of competing products and technologies; • our customer service capabilities and responsiveness; and • the success of our relationships with existing and potential customers. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, the selling prices of our products tend to decline significantly over the life of the products. If we are unable to offset any reductions in the selling prices of our products by introducing new products at higher prices or by reducing our costs, our revenues, gross margins and operating results would be adversely affected. We rely on third-party contractors to manufacture, assemble and test our products and our failure to successfully manage our relationships with these contractors could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales, and limit our growth. We do not have our own wafer fab manufacturing facilities. Therefore, we rely on third-party contractors to manufacture, assemble, and test our ICs. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our third-party vendors. None of our third-party vendors are obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, or in any specific quantities, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on these third-party contractors, including: • potential price increases; • potential insolvency of the third-party contractors; 16 Table of Contents • capacity shortages; • their inability to increase production and achieve acceptable yields on a timely basis; • their inability to supply or support new or changing packaging technologies; • reduced control over delivery schedules and product quality; • increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; • limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us; • shortages of materials that foundries use to manufacture our products; • failure to qualify a selected supplier; • labor shortages or labor strikes; and • actions taken by our third-party contractors that breach our agreements. Because future foundry capacity may be limited and because we do not have long-term agreements with our foundries, we may not be able to secure adequate manufacturing capacity to satisfy the demand for our products. We generally try to make our products to be foundry portable. In general, each of our products is primarily manufactured at a single foundry. We provide these foundries with monthly rolling forecasts of our production requirements; however, the ability of each foundry to provide silicon wafers to us is limited by the foundry’s available capacity. Moreover, the price of our wafers will fluctuate based on changes in available industry capacity. We do not have long term supply contracts with any of our foundries; therefore, our foundry suppliers could choose to prioritize capacity for other customers, particularly larger customers, reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice, or increase the prices they charge us. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that our foundries will allocate sufficient capacity to satisfy our requirements. If we are not able to obtain foundry capacity as required our relationships with our existing customers would be harmed and our sales would likely decline. If our foundries do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality, our sales could decrease, and our relationships with our customers and our reputation may be harmed. Minor deviations in the IC manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended. Our foundries are responsible for yield losses due to their errors, but these yield losses could cause us to delay shipments to our customers. Our parts are qualified with our foundries, at which time a minimum acceptable yield is established. If actual yield is below the minimum, the foundry incurs the cost of the wafers. If actual yield is above the minimum, we incur the cost of the wafers. The manufacturing yields for our new products tend to be lower initially and increase as we achieve full production. Our product pricing is based on the assumption that an increase in manufacturing yields will continue, even with the increasing complexity of our ICs. Shorter product life cycles require us to develop new products faster and to manufacture these products for shorter periods of time. In many cases, these shorter manufacturing periods will not reach the longer, high volume manufacturing periods conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. As a result, if our foundries fail to deliver fabricated silicon wafers of satisfactory quality in the volume and at the price required, we will be unable to meet our customers’ demand for our products or to sell those products at an acceptable profit margin, which would adversely affect our sales and margins and damage our customer relationships. We often build our products based on forecasts provided by customers before receiving purchase orders for the products and may therefore incur product shortages or excess product inventory. In order to ensure availability of our products for some of our largest customers, we begin the manufacturing of our products in advance of receiving purchase orders based on forecasts provided by these customers and our distributors. These forecasts, however, do not represent binding purchase commitments and we do not recognize sales for these products until they are shipped to the customer. As a result, we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales. Because demand for our products may not materialize, manufacturing based on forecasts subjects us to increased risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased obsolescence and may increase our operating costs. These inventory risks are exacerbated when our customers purchase indirectly through contract manufacturers because this causes us to have less visibility regarding the accumulated levels of inventory for such customers. A resulting write-off of unusable or excess inventories would adversely affect our operating results. The third-party contractors that manufacture, assemble and test our products, and many of our customers and end customers, are concentrated in the same geographic region, which increases the risk that a natural disaster, epidemic, labor strike, war or political unrest could disrupt our operations or sales. All of the principal foundries that manufacture our products and all of the principal subcontractors that assemble, package, and test our products are located in Malaysia, Singapore, China or Taiwan. Many of our customers are also located in these areas. The risk of an earthquake in these Pacific Rim locations is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines in the area. We are not currently covered by insurance against business disruption caused by earthquakes as such insurance is not currently available on terms that we believe are commercially reasonable. Earthquakes, fire, flooding, lack of water or other natural disasters, an 17 Table of Contents epidemic, political unrest, war, labor strikes or work stoppages in countries where our semiconductor manufacturers, assemblers and test subcontractors are located, likely would result in the disruption of our foundry, assembly or test capacity. Any disruption resulting from earthquakes, other natural disasters or other events that would disrupt or impair our foundries’ or subcontractors’ production and assembly capacity could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our products until we are able to shift our manufacturing, assembling, packaging or production testing from the affected contractor to another third-party vendor. While we have some foundry capacity in the U.S., we may not be able to increase our foundry capacity in the U.S., or obtain other alternate foundry capacity on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, a natural disaster, epidemic, labor strike, war or political unrest where our customers’ facilities are located would likely reduce our sales to such customers. We have and continue to experience significant period-to-period quarterly and annual fluctuations in our revenues and operating results, which has and continues to result in volatility in our stock price. We have in the past and may in the future experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues and operating results due to a number of factors, including the following and other risks identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section: • the timing and volume of purchase orders and cancellations from our customers; • the rate of acceptance of our products by our customers; • discontinuation of the use of our products by our customers; • the rate of growth of the market for analog-intensive, mixed-signal ICs; • fluctuation and seasonality in demand for our products; • technological innovations or new products by our competitors, customers or us; • the acquisition and disposition of product lines; • increases in prices charged by our foundries and other third-party subcontractors; • decreases in the overall average selling prices of our products; • increased competition in product lines, and competitive pricing pressures; • the availability of third-party foundry assembly and test capacity; • the availability of components used in our customers’ products, such as flash memory or hard disk drives, which are key components in many portable multimedia players; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • the difficulty of forecasting and managing our inventory and production levels; • the rate at which new markets emerge for products we are currently developing or our ability to develop new products; • our involvement in litigation; • cost associated with acquisitions and dilution from the issuance of our stock in connection with acquisitions; • costs associated with severance and reductions in force and restructuring the business; • costs associated with subleasing or abandoning office space; • charges associated with impairments to intangible assets; • charges associated with new accounting regulations; • employee attrition and changes in senior management; • the timing of new product introductions or enhancements by us and our competitors; • changes in our product mix; and • the evolution of industry standards. Any variations in our quarter-to-quarter performance may cause our stock price to fluctuate. It is likely that in some future period our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, our stock price may drop, perhaps significantly. With the announcement of our pending merger with Freescale pursuant to which our stockholders would receive a fixed cash price of $3.00 per share of our common stock (less any applicable withholding taxes), the market price of our common stock may depend more on developments and expectations relating to the probability and timing of completion of the merger and may be less subject to fluctuation resulting from other changes. We are subject to the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles (of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products) and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns could significantly harm our sales, reduce our profitability or prevent us from regaining profitability for a prolonged period of time. From time to time, the semiconductor industry also has experienced periods of increased demand and production capacity constraints. We may experience substantial changes in future operating results due to general semiconductor industry conditions, general economic conditions and other factors. 18 Table of Contents Because the markets in which we compete are highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than us, we cannot be certain that our products will compete favorably in the marketplace. The markets in which we compete are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change, declining average unit selling prices and rapid product obsolescence. We expect competition to increase in the future from existing competitors and from other companies that may enter our existing or future markets with solutions which may be less costly or provide higher performance or more desirable features than our products. Competition typically occurs at the design stage, when customers evaluate alternative design approaches requiring integrated circuits. Because of short product life cycles, there are frequent design win competitions for next-generation systems. We face competition from a relatively large number of competitors in each of our targeted markets. In the portable multimedia player market, our principal competitors include Actions Semiconductor, ALi, Freescale Semiconductor, Philips Semiconductor, NVIDIA, Rock Chip, Samsung, Sunplus, Telechips, and Texas Instruments. Within the printer market, we compete primarily with Zoran Corporation and in-house captive suppliers. In the digital television audio market, we compete primarily with Micronas, ST Microelectronics, MStar and MediaTek. We expect to face increased competition in the future from our current and emerging competitors. In addition, some of our customers have developed and other customers could develop their own internal ICs that could replace their need for our products or otherwise reduce demand for our products. The consumer electronics market, which is the principal end market for our ICs, has historically been subject to intense price competition. In many cases, low cost, high volume producers have entered markets and driven down profit margins. If a low cost, high volume producer should develop products that are competitive with our products, our sales and profit margins would suffer. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases, broader product offerings, and significantly greater financial, sales, marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than we can. Our current and potential competitors may develop and introduce new products that will be priced lower, provide superior performance or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. In addition, in the event of a manufacturing capacity shortage, these competitors may be able to obtain capacity when we are unable to do so. Furthermore, our current or potential competitors have established, or may establish, financial and strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. Our products are complex and may require modifications to resolve undetected errors or failures in our hardware and software, which could lead to an increase in our costs, a loss of customers or a delay in market acceptance of our products. Product liability claims may be asserted against us for certain defects in our products and we may not have sufficient liability insurance. Our ICs are complex and may contain undetected hardware and software errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. These errors could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and cause significant customer relations and business reputation problems. If we deliver products with errors, defects or bugs, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. One or more of our products may be found to be defective after shipment, requiring a product replacement, recall or a software solution that would cure the defect but impede performance of the product. We may also be subject to product returns which could impose substantial costs and harm our business. In addition, product liability claims may be asserted with respect to our technology or products. Our products are typically sold at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the end-products into which they are incorporated. A defect or failure in our product could give rise to failures in our customer’s end-product, so we may face claims for damages that are disproportionately higher than the revenues and profits we receive from the products involved, especially if our customer seeks to recover for damage claims made against it by its own customers. While we maintain insurance, there can be no assurance that we have obtained a sufficient amount of insurance coverage, that asserted claims will be within the scope of coverage of the insurance, or that we will have sufficient resources to satisfy any asserted claims. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. To remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products as well as standard cells and other IC designs that we may use in multiple products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by- 19 Table of Contents product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. Currently most of our products are manufactured in 0.35 micron, 0.18 micron, 0.16 micron and 90 nanometer geometry processes. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies and new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that the foundries that we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and adversely impact our operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate more functionality, as well as third party intellectual property, into our products; however, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our operating results, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. We have substantial international activities, which expose us to additional business risks including increased logistical complexity and political instability. We have established international subsidiaries and opened offices in: Hong Kong; Singapore; Seoul, South Korea; Tokyo, Japan; Taipei, Taiwan; and Shenzhen and Shanghai, China. The percentage of our revenues, from customers located outside of the U.S., was 96.6% for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 97.5% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including: • increased complexity and costs of managing international sales and operations; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition in some countries; • multiple, conflicting and changing laws, regulations and tax schemes; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property; • difficulties in achieving headcount reductions; • restrictions on transfers of funds and other assets of our subsidiaries between jurisdictions; • disruption in air transportation between the United States and overseas facilities; • longer sales cycles; • public health concerns and natural disasters, such as earthquakes and tsunamis; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • difficulties with financial reporting in foreign countries; • political and economic instability; and • difficulties and costs in staffing and managing international operations, as well as cultural differences. Any conflict or uncertainty in the countries in which we operate, including public health or safety, natural disasters or general economic factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any of the above risks, should they occur, could result in an increase in the cost of components, production delays, general business interruptions, delays from difficulties in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs and other barriers and restrictions, potentially longer payment cycles, potentially increased taxes, restrictions on the repatriation of funds and the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, any of which could ultimately have a material adverse effect on us. To date, all of our sales to international customers and purchases of components from international suppliers have been denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive for our international customers, thus potentially leading to a reduction in sales and profitability. Furthermore, many of our competitors are foreign companies that could benefit from such a currency fluctuation making it more difficult for us to compete with those companies. We may be unable to effectively protect our intellectual property in the U.S. or abroad, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. We believe that the protection of our intellectual property rights will continue to be important to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, unauthorized parties have infringed our intellectual property in the past, and may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property in 20 Table of Contents the future. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent infringement of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial infringement problems in foreign countries, including countries in which we sell products. We currently hold relatively few non-U.S. patents. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of our pending applications, nor can we be certain that any issued patents would protect or benefit us or give us adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents may be circumvented or challenged and declared invalid or unenforceable. We also cannot be certain that others will not copy our unpatented intellectual property or develop effective competing technologies on their own. Significant litigation over intellectual property in our industry may cause us to become involved in costly and lengthy litigation, which could subject us to liability, require us to stop selling our products or force us to redesign our products. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the U.S. involving patents and other intellectual property rights in the semiconductor industry. In the past, we have found it necessary to engage in litigation to enforce and defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. For example, in January 2005, we filed a lawsuit against Actions Semiconductor and requested the U.S. International Trade Commission initiate an investigation against Actions Semiconductor’s products, seeking to halt Actions’ infringement of our intellectual property rights. As a result of that lawsuit, Actions sought to invalidate certain of our patents and also sued us for patent infringement in an unrelated case. Although our dispute with Actions is now settled, such matters resulted in significant legal fees and costs to us, as well as requiring significant management attention. We believe future litigation involving intellectual property could occur. From time to time, we receive letters from various industry participants alleging one or more of our products infringe the participants’ patents or trade secrets. We typically respond when appropriate and as advised by legal counsel. Any lawsuits resulting from such allegations could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. Additionally, lawsuits arising in foreign countries where the intellectual property laws are not as developed as those in the U.S. create greater uncertainty in the outcome of the lawsuit and the potential damages that might be available to the asserting party than comparable lawsuits in the U.S. Any lawsuit, regardless of its success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert employee time and attention. Any intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products or using technology that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • pay damages to the party claiming infringement; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and • attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. Although patent disputes in the semiconductor industry have often been settled through cross-licensing arrangements, we may not be able in any or every instance to settle an alleged patent infringement claim through a cross-licensing arrangement. We have a more limited patent portfolio than many of our competitors. If a successful claim is made against us or any of our customers and a license is not made available to us on commercially reasonable terms or we are required to pay substantial damages or awards, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our products incorporate technology licensed from third parties. We incorporate technology (including software) licensed from third parties in our products. We could be subjected to claims of infringement regardless of our lack of involvement in the development of the licensed technology. Although a third party licensor is typically obligated to indemnify us if the licensed technology infringes on another party’s intellectual property rights, such indemnification is typically limited in amount and may be worthless if the licensor becomes insolvent. Furthermore, any failure of third party technology to perform properly would adversely affect sales of our products incorporating such technology. Our intellectual property indemnification practices may adversely impact our business. We have historically indemnified our customers for certain costs and damages of patent infringement in circumstances where our product is the factor creating the customer’s infringement exposure, and this practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers. In some instances, our products are designed for use in devices manufactured by our customers that comply with international standards, such as the MP3 standard. These international standards are often covered by patent rights held by third parties, which may include our competitors. The combined costs of identifying and obtaining licenses from all holders of patent rights essential to such international standards could be high and could reduce our profitability or increase our losses. The cost of not obtaining such licenses could also be high if a holder of such patent rights brings a claim for patent infringement. We are aware that certain of our customers have received notices from third parties seeking to grant a royalty bearing patent license to those customers and claiming that those customers’ manufacture and sale of products capable of decoding MP3 files violates patents in which the third 21 Table of Contents parties have the right to enforce. In the contracts under which we distribute MP3 decoding products, we generally (but not always) have not agreed to indemnify our customers with respect to patent claims related to MP3 decoding technology. However, we cannot assure you that claims for indemnification will not be made or that if made, such claims would not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. The industry standards supported by our products are continually evolving and our success depends on our ability to adapt our products to meet these changing industry standards. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to ensure that our products are compliant with evolving industry standards, such as the introduction of new compression algorithms for portable multimedia players. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by other suppliers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards for a significant period of time, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins. We may not be successful in developing or using new technologies or in developing new products or product enhancements that achieve market acceptance and such efforts may require substantial time and expense. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend on the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. We had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007 and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future, or that our future remediation efforts will be successful. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports. Our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. There exist inherent limitations in all control systems, so no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, involving SigmaTel have been, or will be, detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple human error. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an override of those controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Controls may become inadequate over time because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the compliance with policies or procedures. For example, given our recent reductions in force and attrition, a significant decrease in the headcount of our finance personnel and/or significant turnover among our finance personnel could result in less segregation of duties and/or less familiarity among finance staff with internal control policies and procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may be volatile in the future. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by the following factors: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, or in our financial guidance, or our failure to perform in line with such estimates; • changes in market valuations of other technology companies, particularly semiconductor companies; 22 Table of Contents • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • introduction of technologies or product enhancements that reduce the need for our products; • the loss of, or decrease in sales to, one or more key customers; • a large sale of stock by a significant stockholder; • dilution from the issuance of our stock in connection with acquisitions; • the addition or removal of our stock to or from a stock index fund; • departures of key personnel; and • the required expensing of stock options. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance. With the announcement of our pending merger with Freescale pursuant to which our stockholders would receive a fixed cash price of $3.00 per share of our common stock (less any applicable withholding taxes), the market price of our common stock may depend more on developments and expectations relating to the probability and timing of completion of the merger and may be less subject to fluctuation resulting from other changes. Any asset dispositions we make could harm our financial condition and future results of operations. In connection with the sale of our PC Audio Codec product line, we incurred various risks. This disposition and any asset disposition that we may make in the future entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results, including: • diversion of management’s time and attention from our core business; • difficulties separating the divested business; • risks to relations with customers who previously purchased products from our disposed product lines; • reduced leverage with suppliers due to reduced aggregate volume; • risks related to employee relations; • risks associated with the transfer and licensing of intellectual property; • security risks and other liabilities related to the transition services provided in connection with the disposition; • tax issues associated with dispositions; and • disposition-related disputes, including disputes over earn-outs and escrows. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of SigmaTel. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These include provisions: • prohibiting a merger with a party that has acquired control of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, such as a party that has completed a successful tender offer, until three years after that party acquired control of 15% of our outstanding common stock; • authorizing the issuance of up to 30,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock; • eliminating stockholders’ rights to call a special meeting of stockholders; and • requiring advance notice of any stockholder nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors. We are also subject to the anti-takeover laws of Delaware that may prevent, delay or impede a third party from acquiring or merging with us, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The provisions above will not delay or interfere with our proposed merger with Freescale. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 