Item 1A. Risk Factors We may not have adequate financial resources to execute our business plan. We have historically operated at a loss and have not consistently generated sufficient cash from operating activities to cover our operating and other cash expenditures. On December 29, 2010 we acquired the FAMILION family of genetic tests from PGxHealth, a subsidiary of Clinical Data. At December 31, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents of $3.5 million. While we believe that existing sources of liquidity are sufficient to meet expected cash needs through 2011, we will need to increase our net sales and successfully integrate the FAMILION acquisition in order to be assured of meeting our liquidity needs on a long-term basis. This acquisition was funded with debt and preferred stock. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our net sales, further reduce our expenses, or raise further capital or equity and, accordingly, we may not have sufficient sources of liquidity to continue the operations indefinitely. We have a history of operating losses and may incur losses in the future. We have experienced annual losses from continuing operations since inception of our operations. Our net loss for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $3.1 million and $1.9 million, respectively. These historical losses have been due principally to the high levels of research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses that we have incurred in order to develop and market our products, the fixed nature of our manufacturing costs, restructuring charges and impairment charges and merger and acquisition costs. On December 29, 2010 we acquired the FAMILION family of genetic tests. The acquisition was completed due to the opportunity for synergies in combining the laboratories and potential for revenue growth. We will need to quickly and K-6 Table of Contents successfully implement our integration plan to reduce the net loss in the future. In addition, markets for our products and services have developed more slowly than expected in many cases and may continue to do so. As a result, we may incur operating losses in the future. We may not have adequate top executive talent to execute our business plan. Prior to the acquisition of FAMILION, in order to reduce our operating costs, we have reduced the number of employees in most areas of our business. In addition, we may lose key management, scientific, technical, sales and manufacturing personnel from time to time. It may be difficult to recruit and retain executive management if they are needed in the future, and the loss of top executive talent could harm our business and operating results. We cannot assure you that our employee reductions will not impair our ability to develop new products and refine existing products in order to remain competitive or meet our customers’ needs. In addition, these reductions could prevent us from successfully marketing our products and developing our customer base. We might enter into new acquisitions that are difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. Our success will depend in part on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. We expect to seek to acquire businesses, technologies or products that will complement or expand our existing business, including acquisitions that could be material in size and scope. Any acquisition we might make in the future might not provide us with the benefits we anticipated in entering into the transaction. Any future acquisitions involve various risks, including: • Difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired entities; • The risk of diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; • Risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; • Unexpected expenses resulting from the acquisition; • Potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses; • Insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition; and • The potential loss of key employees of the acquired entities. An acquisition could result in the incurrence of debt, restructuring charges and large one-time write-offs. Acquisitions also could result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which might result in future impairment charges. Furthermore, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted. From time to time, we might enter into negotiations for acquisitions that are not ultimately consummated. Those negotiations could result in diversion of management time and potentially K-7 Table of Contents significant out-of-pocket costs. If we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions accurately, we could fail to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Continued weakness in U.S. or global economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our businesses. The economies of the United States and other regions of the world in which we do business have experienced significant weakness which, in the case of the U.S., has resulted in significant unemployment and slower growth in economic activity. A continued decline in economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our services and products, thus reducing our revenue. These conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. Sales of our Laboratory Services have been variable. Laboratory Services include services performed by both our Molecular Clinical Reference Laboratory and our Pharmacogenomics Research Services. Testing volumes at the Molecular Clinical Reference Laboratory are dependent on patient visits to doctors’ offices and other providers of health care and tends to fluctuate on a seasonal basis. Testing volume generally declines during the year-end holiday periods, other major holidays and the summer. The Pharmacogenomics Research Services depends on project-based work that changes from quarter to quarter. Therefore, comparison of the results of successive quarters may not accurately reflect trends or results for the full year. Changes in payer mix could have a material adverse impact on our net sales and profitability. Testing services are billed to private patients, Medicare, Medicaid and insurance companies. Tests may be billed to different payers depending on a particular patient’s medical insurance benefits. Increases in the percentage of services billed to government payors could have an adverse impact on our net sales. Governmental payers and healthcare plans have taken steps to control costs. Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers have increased their efforts to control the costs of health care services, including clinical testing services. They may reduce fee schedules or limit/exclude coverage for tests that we perform. Medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. We expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of testing services will continue. These efforts, including changes in law or regulations, may have a material adverse impact on our business. Our Laboratory requires ongoing CLIA certification. The Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (“CLIA”) extended federal oversight to virtually all clinical laboratories by requiring that they be certified by the federal government or by a federally approved accreditation agency. CLIA requires that all clinical laboratories meet quality assurance, quality control and personnel standards. Laboratories also must undergo proficiency testing and are subject to inspections. K-8 Table of Contents The sanctions for failure to comply with CLIA requirements include suspension, revocation or limitation of a laboratory’s CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business, cancellation or suspension of the laboratory’s approval to receive Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement, as well as significant fines and/or criminal penalties. The loss or suspension of a CLIA certification, imposition of a fine or other penalties, or future changes in the CLIA law or regulations (or interpretation of the law or regulations) could have a material adverse effect on us. We believe that we are in compliance with all applicable laboratory requirements, but no assurances can be given that our laboratories will pass all future certification inspections. Failure to comply with HIPAA could be costly. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and associated regulations protect the privacy and security of certain protected health information and establish standards for electronic healthcare transactions in the United States. These privacy regulations establish federal standards regarding the uses and disclosures of protected health information. Our Molecular Clinical Reference Laboratory is subject to HIPAA and its associated regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our Laboratory Services business. We could also incur liabilities from third party claims. Our business could be adversely impacted by healthcare reform. Government attention to the healthcare industry in the United States is significant and may increase. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act passed by Congress and signed into law by the President in March 2010 could adversely impact our business. While the ultimate impact of the legislation on the healthcare industry is unknown, it is likely to be extensive and could result in significant change. We may be subject to client lawsuits. Providers of clinical testing services may be subject to lawsuits alleging negligence or other similar legal claims. Potential suits could involve claims for substantial damages. Litigation could also have an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. We maintain liability insurance coverage for certain claims that could result from providing or failing to provide clinical testing services, including inaccurate testing results and other exposures. Our insurance coverage limits our maximum recovery on individual claims and, therefore, there is no assurance that such coverage will be adequate. Market demand is outside of our control. There are many factors that affect the market demand for our products and services that we cannot control. Demand for our WAVE System is affected by the needs and budgetary resources of research institutions, universities, hospitals and others who use the WAVE System for genetic-variation research. The WAVE System represents a significant expenditure by these types of customers and often requires a long sales cycle. Similarly, the sales cycle for the OEM equipment that we sell can be lengthy. If net sales of our products and services continue at current levels, we may need to take steps to further reduce operating expenses or raise additional working capital. We cannot assure that sales will increase or that we will be able to reduce operating expenses or raise additional working capital. K-9 Table of Contents The sale of our products and business operations in international markets subjects us to additional risks. During the past several years, international sales have represented more than half of our total net sales. As a result, a major portion of our net sales are subject to risks associated with international sales and operations. These risks include: • payment cycles in foreign markets are typically longer than in the U.S., and capital spending budgets for research agencies can vary over time with foreign governments; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates can make our products more costly in local currencies since our foreign sales are typically paid for in British Pounds or the Euro; • the potential for changes in U.S. and foreign laws or regulations that result in additional import or export restrictions, higher tariffs or other taxes, more burdensome licensing requirements or similar impediments to our ability to sell products and services profitably in these markets; and • the fluctuation of foreign currency to the US Dollar and the Euro to the British Pound can cause our net sales and expenses to increase or decrease which adds risk to our financial statements. Our WAVE System includes hardware components and instrumentation manufactured by a single supplier and if we are no longer able to obtain these components and instrumentation our ability to manufacture our products could be impaired. We rely on a single supplier, Hitachi High Technologies America, to provide the basic instrument modules used in our WAVE Systems. While other suppliers of instrumentation are available, we believe that our arrangement with Hitachi offers strategic advantages. We have successfully converted the latest model of WAVE Systems to utilize Hitachi’s newest instrument line. If we were required to seek alternative sources of supply, it could be more time consuming or expensive or require significant and costly modification of our WAVE System. Also, if we were unable to obtain instruments from Hitachi in sufficient quantities or in a timely manner, our ability to manufacture our products could be impaired, which could limit our future net sales. The current economy may cause suppliers of products to not be able to perform. We rely on various suppliers for products and materials needed to produce our products. In the event that they would be unable to deliver those items due to product shortage or business closure, we may be unable to deliver our products or may need to increase our prices. The current economy poses additional risk of our suppliers’ ability to continue their businesses as usual. Our markets are very competitive. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we do and may enjoy other competitive advantages. This may allow them to more effectively market their products to our customers or potential customers, to develop products that make our products obsolete or to produce and sell products less expensively than us. As a result of these competitive factors, demand for and pricing of our products and services could be negatively affected. K-10 Table of Contents Our patents may not protect us from others using our technology that could harm our business and competitive position. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop similar or alternative products or technology, duplicate any of our products, or, if patents are issued to us, design around the patented products developed by us. Our patents or licenses could be challenged by litigation and, if the outcome of such litigation were adverse to us, our competitors could be free to use our technology. We may not be able to obtain additional patents for our technology, or if we are able to do so, patents may not provide us with adequate protection or be commercially beneficial. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in litigation if we are required to defend ourselves in patent suits brought by third parties or if we initiate such suits. We cannot be certain that other measures taken to protect our intellectual property will be effective. We rely upon trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions for some of our confidential and proprietary information that is not subject matter for which patent protection is being sought. Such measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. If such measures do not protect our rights, third parties could use our technology and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. We are dependent upon our licensed technologies and may need to obtain additional licenses in the future to offer our products and remain competitive. We have licensed key components of our technologies from third parties. If these agreements were to terminate prematurely due to our breach of the terms of these licenses or we otherwise fail to maintain our rights to such technology, we may lose the right to manufacture or sell a substantial portion of our products. In addition, we may need to obtain licenses to additional technologies in the future in order to keep our products competitive. If we fail to license or otherwise acquire necessary technologies, we may not be able to develop new products that we need to remain competitive. The protection of intellectual property in foreign countries is uncertain. A significant percentage of our sales are to customers located outside the U.S. The patent and other intellectual property laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. We may need to bring proceedings to defend our patent rights or to determine the validity of our competitors’ foreign patents. These proceedings could result in substantial cost and diversion of our efforts. Finally, some of our patent protection in the U.S. is not available to us in foreign countries due to the laws of those countries. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. There are a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications submitted for technologies in, or related to, our area of business. As a result, any application or exploitation of our technology could infringe patents or proprietary rights of others and any licenses that we might need as a result of such infringement might not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. This may lead others to assert patent infringement or other intellectual property claims against us. K-11 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with any applicable government regulations or otherwise respond to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous chemicals that we use may adversely affect our results of operations. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. We are subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we could be required to pay penalties or be held liable for any damages that result and this liability could exceed our financial resources. We cannot assure you that accidental contamination or injury will not occur. Any such accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities and operations, resulting in delays and increased costs. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” under the rules of the SEC. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 3a51-1 that establishes the definition of a “penny stock” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 requires that: • a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and • the broker or dealer receives from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: • obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and • make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which is in highlight form: • sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and • that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. K-12 Table of Contents Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. We may issue a substantial amount of our common stock to holders of options and warrants and this could reduce the market price for our stock. At December 31, 2010, we had obligations to issue 18,607,229 shares of common stock upon exercise of outstanding stock options representing 2,565,001 shares, convertible preferred stock representing 10,344,820 shares and warrants representing 5,697,408 shares. The issuance of these additional shares of common stock may be dilutive to our current shareholders and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is thinly traded and a large percentage of our shares are held by a small group of unrelated, institutional owners. At December 31, 2010, we had 49,289,672 shares of common stock outstanding. Fewer than ten unrelated, institutional holders own more than 50% of these shares. The sale of a significant number of shares into the public market has potential to cause significant downward pressure on the price of our common stock. This is particularly the case if the shares being placed into the market exceed the market’s ability to absorb the stock. Such an event could place further downward pressure on the price of our common stock. This presents an opportunity for short sellers to contribute to the further decline of our stock price. If there are significant short sales of our stock, the price decline that would result from this activity will cause the share price to decline more so, which, in turn, may cause long holders of the stock to sell their shares thereby contributing to sales of stock in the market. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 