ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS IN EVALUATING SOLUTIA, CAREFUL CONSIDERATION SHOULD BE GIVEN TO THE RISK FACTORS SET FORTH BELOW, AS WELL AS THE OTHER INFORMATION SET FORTH IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K. ALTHOUGH THESE RISK FACTORS ARE MANY, THESE FACTORS SHOULD NOT BE REGARDED AS CONSTITUTING THE ONLY RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESSES. EACH OF THESE RISK FACTORS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS AND/OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. IN ADDITION TO THE FOLLOWING DISCLOSURES, PLEASE REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT INCLUDING THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES. CERTAIN BANKRUPTCY CONSIDERATIONS PROLONGED CONTINUATION OF THE CHAPTER 11 CASES MAY HARM THE DEBTORS' BUSINESSES The prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases could adversely affect our businesses and operations. So long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with our reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our businesses. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 Cases continue, the more likely it is that our customers, suppliers, distributors and agents will lose confidence in our ability to successfully reorganize our businesses and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, so long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the proceedings. The prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may also require us to seek additional financing, either as part of the DIP credit facility or otherwise, in order to service our debt and other obligations. We may not be able to obtain additional financing during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases on commercially favorable terms or at all. If we were to require additional financing during the Chapter 11 Cases and were unable to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all, it is unlikely that we could successfully reorganize. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN CONFIRMATION OF THE PLAN To successfully emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection as a viable entity, Solutia, like any debtor, must obtain approval of a plan of reorganization from its creditors, confirmation of the plan through the Bankruptcy Court and successfully implement this confirmed plan. The foregoing process requires Solutia to (i) meet certain statutory requirements with respect to the adequacy of disclosure with respect to any proposed plan, (ii) solicit and obtain creditor acceptances of the proposed plan, and (iii) fulfill other statutory conditions with respect to plan confirmation. With regard to any proposed plan of reorganization we may not receive the requisite acceptances to confirm a plan. Even if the requisite acceptances of a proposed plan are received, the Bankruptcy Court may not confirm the plan as proposed. A dissenting holder of a claim against us could challenge the balloting procedures and results as not being in compliance with the Bankruptcy Code. Finally, even if the Bankruptcy Court determined that the balloting procedures and results were appropriate, the Bankruptcy Court could still decline to confirm a proposed plan if it found that any of the statutory requirements for confirmation had not been met. Specifically, section 1129 of the Bankruptcy Code sets forth the requirements for confirmation and requires, among other things, a finding by the Bankruptcy Court that (i) the debtor's plan "does not unfairly discriminate" and is "fair and equitable" with respect to any non-accepting classes, (ii) confirmation of the debtor's plan is not likely to be followed by a liquidation or a need for further financial reorganization, and (iii) the value of distributions to non-accepting holders of claims within a particular class under the debtor's plan will not be less than the value of distributions such holders would receive if the debtor was liquidated under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. The Bankruptcy Court may determine that a proposed plan does not satisfy one or more of these requirements, in which case the proposed plan would not be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. If Solutia's Plan filed on February 14, 2006, or an amended version of that plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, it is unclear whether Solutia would be able to reorganize its businesses and what, if any, distributions holders of claims against or equity interests in Solutia ultimately would receive with respect to their claims or equity interests. There also can be no assurance that Solutia will be able to successfully develop, prosecute, confirm, and consummate an alternative plan of reorganization with respect to the chapter 11 cases that is acceptable to the Bankruptcy Court and Solutia's creditors, equity holders and other parties in interest. There can be no assurance that such an alternative plan of reorganization would preserve 11 the reallocation of the Legacy Liabilities that is achieved in the Plan, which eliminates legacy tort liability exposure, reduces environmental obligations, and significantly reduces Solutia's exposure with regard to retiree obligations. Additionally, it is possible that third parties may seek and obtain approval to terminate or shorten the exclusivity period during which only Solutia may propose and confirm a plan of reorganization. Finally, Solutia's emergence from bankruptcy is not assured. While we expect to emerge from bankruptcy in the future, there can be no assurance that we will successfully reorganize, or when this reorganization will occur. THE CHANGE OF CONTROL PRODUCED BY OUR RESTRUCTURING MAY RESULT IN A LIMITATION ON OR LOSS OF NET OPERATING LOSSES FOR FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES Our issuance of common stock in a reorganized Solutia, along with the cancellation of existing equity interests may cause us to undergo an ownership change upon emergence from Chapter 11. As a result, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code ("IRC") may apply to limit our use of consolidated net operating losses upon emergence. Additionally, our ability to use any remaining capital loss carryforwards and tax credits may be limited. The annual limitation imposed by the particular provision of Section 382 of the IRC that reorganized Solutia expects to apply to its ownership change generally equals the product of (i) the fair market value of the net equity value of our stock at the time of the ownership change, taking into account the increase in value of the corporation as a result of the surrender or cancellation of creditor's claims in the transaction (rather than the value without taking into account such increases, as is the case under the general rule for non-bankruptcy ownership changes) multiplied by (ii) the long-term tax-exempt rate in effect for the month in which the ownership change occurs. The long-term tax-exempt rate is published monthly by the IRS and is intended to reflect current interest rates on long-term tax-exempt debt obligations. Accordingly, under this rule the Section 382 limitation would generally reflect the increase in the value of reorganized Solutia's stock resulting from the conversion of debt to equity in the proceeding. Section 383 of the IRC applies a similar limitation to a capital loss carryforward and tax credits. Although it is impossible to predict with absolute certainty the net equity value of reorganized Solutia immediately upon emergence from Chapter 11, reorganized Solutia's use of its net operating losses is expected to be substantially limited after an ownership change. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY THE PRICES OF RAW MATERIALS AND ENERGY REQUIRED FOR US TO PRODUCE OUR PRODUCTS ARE VOLATILE AND CANNOT ALWAYS BE PASSED ON TO CUSTOMERS We purchase large amounts of commodity raw materials, including natural gas, propylene, cyclohexane and benzene. Temporary shortages of these raw materials and energy sources may occasionally occur. In addition, we typically purchase major requirements for key raw materials under medium-term contracts. Pricing under these contracts may fluctuate as a result of unscheduled plant interruptions, United States and worldwide market conditions and government regulation. Given our competitive markets, it is not always possible to pass all of these increased costs on to our customers. In addition, natural gas prices and other raw material and energy costs are currently more than double the average ten-year levels. Elevated raw material and energy costs could significantly reduce our operating margins in the future. WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY THAT INCLUDES COMPETITORS WITH GREATER RESOURCES THAN OURS The markets in which we compete are highly competitive. Competition in these markets is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technological and other resources than we do and may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than us. Consolidation of our competitors or customers may also adversely affect our businesses. Furthermore, global competition and customer demands for efficiency will continue to make price increases difficult. WE OPERATE IN CYCLICAL BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS ARE LIKELY TO FLUCTUATE ACCORDINGLY We operate in cyclical business segments. Specifically, a substantial portion of our sales are to customers involved, directly or indirectly, in the housing and automotive industries, both of which are, by their nature, cyclical industries. A downturn in either or both of these industries would result in lower demand for our products among customers involved in those industries and a reduced ability to pass on cost increases to those customers. 12 TURNOVER IN THE SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM AND LOSSES OF OTHER KEY PERSONNEL COULD HAVE A SIGNIFICANT ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND ABILITY TO EMERGE FROM CHAPTER 11 The services of our senior management team, as well as other key personnel, have been integral in our improving results during the Chapter 11 Cases and will be critical to the implementation of our business strategies going forward and our success. If our emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases is delayed, our financial results diminish, the terms of incentive compensation programs are not adequate or any other adverse events occur in the Chapter 11 Cases, we may have difficulty retaining current senior management and other key personnel and be unable to hire qualified personnel to fill any resulting vacancies, which could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to emerge from Chapter 11. OUR OPERATIONS ARE RESTRICTED BY THE TERMS OF OUR CURRENT CREDIT FACILITIES Our current credit facilities include a number of significant restrictive covenants. These covenants could impair our financing and operational flexibility and make it difficult for us to react to market conditions and satisfy our ongoing capital needs and unanticipated cash requirements. Specifically, such covenants restrict our ability and, if applicable, the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: o incur additional debt; o make certain investments; o enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; o limit dividends or other payments by Solutia and certain subsidiaries; o use assets as security in other transactions; o pay dividends on our common stock or repurchase our equity interests; o sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; o guarantee the debts of others; o enter into new lines of business; o make capital expenditures; o prepay, redeem or exchange our debt; o form any joint ventures or subsidiary investments. In addition, our current DIP credit facility requires us to periodically meet minimum capital expenditures on a consolidated bases and minimum EBITDA levels on a consolidated basis and for a certain business segment. Our (euro)200 million Facility Agreement requires us to periodically meet leverage ratios, interest coverage ratios, capital expenditures, and cash flow to debt service ratios on a SESA stand alone basis. These financial covenants and tests could limit our ability to react to market conditions or satisfy extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing and operations. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we would be required to obtain waivers from our lenders to maintain compliance with our debt obligations. If we are unable to obtain any necessary waivers and the debt is accelerated, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future operating performance. 13 WE HAVE AND WILL CONTINUE TO HAVE SIGNIFICANT INDEBTEDNESS We have and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. Solutia's significant indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: o We will have to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow to making interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. o Levels of indebtedness may make us less attractive to potential acquirors or acquisition targets. o Levels of indebtedness may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions, and make us more vulnerable to downturns in general economic conditions as compared to competitors that may be less leveraged. o As described in more detail above, the documents providing for our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that may limit our financing and operational flexibility. Furthermore, our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations will depend, among other things, upon our future operating performance and ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. These factors depend partly on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our debt service obligations as well as fund necessary capital expenditures, pension funding obligations and investments in research and development. In addition, if we need to refinance our debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets or equity, we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS, INCLUDING PROCEEDINGS RELATED TO ENVIRONMENTAL OBLIGATIONS, COULD IMPOSE SUBSTANTIAL COSTS ON US As a manufacturer of chemical-based materials, we have been subject to various lawsuits involving environmental, hazardous waste, personal injury and product liability claims. We are named in a number of legal proceedings primarily relating to former operations, including claims for personal injury and property damage arising out of releases of or alleged exposure to materials that are classified as hazardous substances under federal environmental law or alleged to be hazardous by plaintiffs. Adverse judgments in these legal proceedings, or the filing of additional environmental or other damage claims against us, may have a negative impact on our future results of operations. Additionally, administrative and legal costs associated with defending or settling large claims, or large numbers of claims, could have a negative impact on our future results of operations. It is possible that the Bankruptcy Court could disagree with our treatment of those claims. It is also possible that third parties, including the U.S. federal government, state regulatory agencies, or others, may challenge the dischargeability of these claims. If these litigation matters or claims are not treated as contemplated in our Plan, as filed, or if the actual costs are materially greater than estimates associated with those claims, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future operating performance. THE APPLICABILITY OF NUMEROUS ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS TO OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES COULD CAUSE US TO INCUR MATERIAL COSTS AND LIABILITIES We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, safety and health laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to land and water and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. Under certain environmental laws, we can be held strictly liable for hazardous substance contamination of any real property we have ever owned, operated or used as a disposal site or for natural resource damages associated with such contamination. We are also required to maintain various environmental permits and licenses, many of which require periodic modification and renewal. Our operations entail the risk of violations of those laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. In addition, these requirements and their enforcement may become more stringent in the future. Non-compliance could subject us to material liabilities, such as government fines, third-party lawsuits or the suspension of non-compliant operations. We may also be required to make significant site or operational modifications at substantial cost. Future developments could also restrict or eliminate our ability to continue to manufacture certain products or could require us to make modifications to our products. 14 At any given time, we are involved in litigation, administrative proceedings and investigations of various types in a number of jurisdictions involving potential environmental liabilities, including clean-up costs associated with hazardous waste disposal sites, natural resource damages, property damages and personal injury. We may be required to spend substantial sums to defend or settle these actions, to pay any fines levied against us or satisfy any judgments or other rulings rendered against us. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. One liable party could be held responsible for all costs at a site, regardless of fault, percentage of contribution to the site or the legality of the original disposal. We may also face liability for violations under environmental laws occurring prior to the date of our acquisition of properties subject thereto. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, natural resources damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. WE HAVE SUBSTANTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE COSTS Due to the nature of our business, we make substantial expenditures for environmental and regulatory compliance. During 2006, we spent approximately $9 million on capital projects for various environmental matters, $60 million for the management of environmental programs, including the operation and maintenance of facilities for environmental control, and $10 million for remediation activities. Monsanto currently funds a number of the environmental remediation sites as required under the Plan. However, if the Plan or any other plan is not approved, we could become responsible for some of the sites previously funded by Monsanto and these unexpected expenses could affect our results of operations and financial condition. The substantial amounts that we may be required to spend on environmental capital projects and programs could cause substantial cash outlays and, accordingly, may limit our financial and operating flexibility. In addition, although we believe that we have correctly budgeted and, to the extent appropriate under applicable accounting principles, reserved for these amounts, factors beyond our control may render these budgeted and reserved amounts inadequate. These factors include changing governmental policies and regulations, the commencement of new governmental proceedings or third party litigation regarding environmental remediation, hazardous waste or personal or property damage resulting from environmentally harmful activity, the discovery of unknown conditions and unforeseen problems encountered in environmental remediation programs. PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED IN OPERATING OUR PRODUCTION FACILITIES COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unscheduled down time and environmental hazards. From time to time in the past, we have had incidents that have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted our manufacturing, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of our production facilities. In addition, some of our products involve the manufacture or handling of a variety of reactive, explosive and flammable materials. Use of these products by our employees, customers and contractors could result in liability to us if an explosion, fire, spill or other accident were to occur. LABOR DISRUPTIONS WITH THE UNIONIZED PORTION OF OUR WORKFORCE COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE EFFECT As of December 31, 2006, approximately 14 percent of our U.S. employees located in the Performance Products business segment were unionized. They are represented by various labor unions with local agreements set to expire between November 2007 and March 2010. While we believe that our relations with our employees are good, we may not be able to negotiate these or other collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. A prolonged labor dispute, which could include a work stoppage, could impact our ability to satisfy our customers' requirements and negatively affect our financial condition. 15 WE FACE CURRENCY AND OTHER RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL SALES We generate revenue from export sales, as well as from operations conducted outside the United States. For example, approximately 46 percent of our consolidated sales in 2006 were made into markets outside the United States, including Europe, Canada, Latin America and Asia. Approximately 69 percent of the sales of the Performance Products segment were made into markets outside the United States. Operations outside the United States expose us to risks which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions including fluctuations in currency values, trade restrictions, tariff and trade regulations, foreign tax laws, shipping delays, and economic and political instability. The functional currency of each of our non-United States operations is generally the local currency. Exchange rates between some of these currencies and U.S. dollars have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the future. It is possible that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates will have a negative effect on our results of operations. MANY OF OUR PRODUCTS AND MANUFACTURING PROCESSES ARE SUBJECT TO RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER IF WE FAIL TO KEEP PACE Many of our products (and their corresponding manufacturing processes) participate in markets that are subject to rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. We must continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved capabilities to continue to be a market leader. We must also continue to make improvements in our manufacturing processes and productivity to maintain our competitive position. When we invest in new technologies, processes or production facilities, we will face risks related to construction delays, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical difficulties related to start-up. Our inability to anticipate, respond to, capitalize on or utilize changing technologies could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in any given period. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, OUR SALES AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED We own a large number of patents that relate to a wide variety of products and processes and have a substantial number of patent applications pending. We own a considerable number of established trademarks in many countries under which we market our products. These patents and trademarks in the aggregate are of material importance to our operations and to our Performance Products and Integrated Nylon segments. Our performance may depend in part on our ability to establish, protect and enforce such intellectual property and to defend against any claims of infringement, which involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions and uncertainties. In the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. If litigation that we initiate is unsuccessful, we may not be able to protect the value of some of our intellectual property. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties or license fees to continue to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using or we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable period of time. If we are unable to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, we may be forced to cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, or to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and may be time-consuming. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of some of our resources. Our intellectual property rights may not have the value that we believe them to have, which could result in a competitive disadvantage or adversely affect our business and financial performance. SIGNIFICANT PAYMENTS MAY BE REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN THE FUNDING OF SOLUTIA'S DOMESTIC QUALIFIED PENSION PLAN We maintain a qualified pension plan under which certain of our employees and retirees are entitled to receive benefits. Although we have frozen future benefit accruals under the U.S. pension plan, significant liabilities still remain. In order to fund the pension plan, we have made significant contributions to the pension plan in 2006 amounting to approximately $179 million and will have to fund more going forward. We may be unable to obtain financing to make these pension plan contributions. In addition, even if financing for these contributions is obtained, the funding obligations and the carrying costs of debt incurred to fund the obligations could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. 16 In addition, we are party to certain litigation with respect to our domestic pension plan as more fully described in Part I, Item 3 - Legal Proceedings. It is not known what funding liabilities may be required of Solutia under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) 26 U.S.C. ss. 412, 29 U.S.C. ss. 1082 and any other applicable law if a judgment is entered against our pension plan in this litigation, given that we are the sponsor of the Solutia Pension Plan. If a final judgment is entered against the Solutia pension plan, the liability resulting from such judgment could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and continuing operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 