ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this report. If any of the identified risks actually occurs, or is adversely resolved, our consolidated financial statements could be materially, adversely impacted in a particular fiscal quarter or year and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer materially. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The weakness of financial institutions could adversely affect the cash and cash equivalents held by us. Our cash and cash equivalents are invested in investment-grade, short-term investment instruments with high quality financial institutions. Account balances generally exceed federally insured limits. While we believe that we have taken reasonable measures to ensure that we can maintain access to these funds, we cannot assure you that access to our cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse developments that may be experienced by these institutions. Our ability to access these cash balances could be negatively impacted if the financial institutions fail, if there are defaults in the securities that are held in money market funds or there are other adverse conditions in the financial markets. 10 Current economic trends and recessionary pressure could negatively affect our future operating results. The current negative economic trends could adversely affect our operations, by among other things, · reducing and/or delaying the demand for our services; · increasing our customer churn, both with respect to customer terminations and with respect to reduced prices upon renewals of customer agreements; · leading to reduced services from our vendors facing economic difficulties; and · increasing the bad debts in our customer receivables. These and other related factors could negatively affect our future operating results depending upon the length and severity of the current economic downturn. Prior to the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, we were not in compliance with our reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We had not made any timely periodic filings with the SEC required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), for any period since before our filing for bankruptcy in May 2002. The filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or future periodic filings will not cure these past violations. As a result of our failure to make timely periodic filings with the SEC, we could be subject to civil penalties and other administrative proceedings by the SEC. Our prior SEC Investigation may negatively affect us. As previously discussed in Item 1, “Business - Corporate History,” the SEC initiated a formal investigation of MFN in June 2002. On December 15, 2006, we received a “Wells” notice from the SEC staff in connection with such investigation indicating that the SEC staff was considering recommending that the SEC bring a civil injunctive action against us alleging that we violated various provisions of the federal securities laws. In connection with the contemplated action, the staff could have sought a permanent injunction, disgorgement, and civil penalties. In response to the Wells notice, we made a written submission to the SEC staff setting forth reasons why a civil injunctive action should not be authorized by the SEC. On March 19, 2007, we received a notice from the SEC staff stating that the investigation of MFN had been terminated and that no enforcement action against us had been recommended to the SEC. Such notice was provided to us under the guidelines of the final paragraph of Securities Act Release No. 5310 which states, among other things, that “[such notice] must in no way be construed as indicating that the party has been exonerated or that no action may ultimately result from the staff’s investigation of that particular matter. All that such a communication means is that the staff has completed its investigation and that at that time no enforcement action has been recommended to the SEC.” While there have been no further actions to date, we cannot assure you that there will not be any further action on this or other matters by the SEC. Our revenue includes certain fees that are not predictable. Historically, a portion of our revenue has included certain termination payments received by the Company to settle contractual commitments, which are referred to as termination revenue. Additionally, we have received settlements of our claims in various customer bankruptcy cases, which is also included in termination revenue. Termination revenue amounted to $15.4 million, $8.5 million and $8.3 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. This revenue is not predictable and may not be sustainable. In prior years, we incurred significant net losses and we cannot assure you that we will generate net income or that we will sustain positive operating cash flow in the future. We incurred net losses from our inception through December 31, 2005. In 2006, we generated net income, principally from the sale of our remaining data centers and in 2007 and 2008, we generated operating income and net income. The net income reported for 2007 included the non-cash gain of $10.3 million on the reversal of foreign currency translation adjustments from the liquidation of certain subsidiaries. The net income reported for 2008 of $42.3 million includes termination fees of $15.4 million (as described in Note 2, “Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies – Revenue Recognition,” to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report). In order for us to continue to generate positive operating cash flow and net income, we will need to continue to obtain new customers, increase our revenue from our existing customers and manage our costs effectively. In the event we are unable to do so, or if we lose customers, we may not be able to continue to generate operating cash flow or net income in the future. We have significant exposure to the financial services industry. We have a large number of customers in the financial services industry. Financial services companies, including some of our customers, have reported significant losses, which has created significant liquidity problems within the financial services industry. These problems may affect our customers’ ability to pay for our services and to place orders for new services. In addition, our operating results may also be adversely affected if our customers file for bankruptcy or are acquired by institutions or entities that are not interested in purchasing services from us. We have incurred secured indebtedness. On February 29, 2008, we obtained a $60 million senior secured credit facility (the “Secured Credit Facility”), consisting of an $18 million revolving credit facility (the “Revolver”) and a $42 million term loan facility (the “Term Loan”). The Secured Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our domestic assets. The Term Loan was comprised of $24 million, which was advanced at closing and up to $18 million of which originally could be drawn within nine months of closing at our option (the “Delayed Draw Term Loan”). In September 2008, the Delayed Draw Term Loan option, which was originally scheduled to expire on November 25, 2008, was extended to June 30, 2009. The Secured Credit Facility is to be used for general corporate purposes and for capital investment. The Revolver and the Term Loan each have a term of five years from the closing date of the Secured Credit Facility. On September 26, 2008, we executed a joinder agreement to the Secured Credit Facility that added an additional lender and increased the amount of the Secured Credit Facility to $90 million effective October 1, 2008, subject to the terms of the joinder agreement. The availability under the Revolver increased to $27 million, the Term Loan increased to $36 million and the available Delayed Draw Term Loan increased to $27 million. The additional amount of the Term Loan of $12 million was advanced on October 1, 2008. The Secured Credit Facility imposes restrictions on our operations, including the requirements that we maintain an unrestricted cash balance at all times of at least $20 million. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 10, “Long-Term Debt,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 11 At February 28, 2009, we had $36 million outstanding under the Secured Credit Facility. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows in the future to repay the loan. Additionally, we may not be able to satisfy the requirements under the loan covenants in order to utilize the Revolver or the Delayed Draw Term Loan or repayment may be accelerated. If our operations do not produce sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses and capital requirements, we may be required to raise additional capital through a debt or equity financing. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, we have utilized cash in excess of our cash from operating activities to fund additional investments in property and equipment thus reducing liquidity. If our operating expenses or our investments in property and equipment increase, we may need to rely on our existing cash balance and funds available under our Secured Credit Facility to meet our cash needs. Our future capital requirements may increase if we acquire or invest in additional businesses, assets, services or technologies, which may require us to issue additional equity or debt. We may also face unforeseen capital requirements for new technology that we require to remain competitive or to comply with new regulatory requirements, for unforeseen maintenance of our network and facilities and for other unanticipated expenses associated with running our business. We cannot assure you that we will have access to necessary capital, particularly in light of current market conditions, nor can we assure you that any such financing will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. If we issue equity securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may be diluted. Additionally, our Secured Credit Facility imposes limitations on the amount of additional indebtedness we may incur. We may not be able to develop and maintain systems and controls to operate our business effectively. We have experienced severe difficulties developing and maintaining financial and other systems necessary to operate our business properly and for a period of over six years we could not file our periodic reports with the SEC. Our history of rapid initial growth, expansion through acquisitions with attendant integration issues, significant reorganization and restructuring activities and associated significant staffing reductions, budgetary constraints and attendant limitations on investment in internal systems have increased the risk of internal control deficiencies. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management is required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on a periodic basis. Pursuant to our assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, we have identified material weaknesses described in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” These weaknesses mean that there is more than a remote likelihood that we will not prevent or detect a material misstatement in our financial statements. At the current time (i) we are in the process of developing remedies to correct our weaknesses, (ii) we have already begun implementing programs to remediate some of these weaknesses and (iii) we have undertaken additional procedures to assist in the production of our financial statements. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in this regard. Further, as a result of these material weaknesses, our management has concluded that we do not have effective internal control over financial reporting and that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. In the event that we are unable to develop and maintain appropriate systems and controls, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe, however, that the financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K fairly present, in all material respects, our financial condition and results of operations for the periods presented. Our common stock is not listed and it may be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares. Our common stock is currently not listed on any stock exchange. Although we are aware that trades in our common stock occur through the over the counter market, the stock is very thinly traded. As a result, prices may be volatile and it may be difficult to find a purchaser for shares of our common stock. Although we plan to list our common stock with a national securities exchange, we cannot assure you that any such exchange will accept our listing. Further, we cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our shares will lead to the development of an active trading market or how liquid that market may become. We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy because we depend on factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our future largely depends on our ability to implement our business strategy – including shifting from carrier to enterprise customers and from leasing dark fiber to providing lit services – to create new business and revenue opportunities. Our results of operations will be adversely affected if we cannot fully implement our business strategy. Successful implementation depends on numerous factors beyond our control, including economic, competitive, regulatory and other conditions and uncertainties, the ability to obtain licenses, permits, franchises and rights-of-way on reasonable terms and conditions and the ability to hire and retain qualified management personnel. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in our industry. The telecommunications industry is extremely competitive, particularly with respect to price and service. Our failure to compete effectively with our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant increase in industry capacity or reduction in overall demand would adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase prices. Further, we anticipate that prices for certain telecommunications services such as IP bandwidth will continue to decline due to a number of factors including (a) price competition as various network providers attempt to gain market share to cover the fixed costs of their network investments and/or install new networks that might compete with our networks; and (b) technological advances that permit substantial increases in the transmission capacity of many of our competitors’ networks. In the telecommunications industry, we compete against ILECs, which have historically provided local telephone services and currently occupy significant market positions in their local telecommunications markets. In addition to these carriers, several other competitors, such as facilities-based communications service providers including CLECs, cable television companies, electric utilities and large end-users with private networks offer services similar to those offered by us. Many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, sales and marketing and research and development resources than we do. Rapid technological changes could affect the continued use of our services. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology that could materially affect the continued use of our services. Changes in technology could negatively affect the desire of customers to purchase our existing services and may require us to make significant investments in order to meet customer demands for services incorporating new technologies. We also cannot assure you that technological changes in the communications industry and Internet-related industry will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on key personnel. Our business is managed by certain key management and operating personnel. We believe that the success of our business strategy and our ability to operate successfully depend on the continued employment of such employees and the ability to attract qualified employees. We face significant competition from a wide range of companies in our recruiting efforts, and we could experience difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel in the future. 12 Our franchises, licenses, permits, rights-of-way, conduit leases and property leases could be canceled or not renewed, which would impair our ability to provide our services. We must maintain rights-of-way, franchises and other permits from railroads, utilities, state highway authorities, local governments, transit authorities and others to operate our networks. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining these right-of-way agreements or obtaining future agreements on acceptable terms. Some of these agreements may be short-term or revocable at will, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to have access to existing rights-of-way after they have expired or terminated. If a material portion of these agreements were terminated or could not be renewed and we were forced to abandon our networks, the termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in some cases landowners have asserted that railroad companies, utilities and others to whom they granted easements to their properties are not entitled as a result of these easements to grant rights-of-way to telecommunications providers. If these disputes are resolved in the landowners' favor, we could be obligated to make payments to these landowners for the lease of these rights-of-way or to indemnify the right-of-way holder for its losses. In the past, we have had franchises and rights-of-way expire prior to executing a renewal and in the interim until such renewal was executed, operated without an agreement, which is the case currently with respect to our franchise agreement for our operations in the City of New York. We expect that these situations will continue to occur in the future. These expirations have not caused any material adverse effect on our operations in the past, and we do not expect that they will in the future. However, to the extent that a municipality or other right-of-way holder attempts to terminate our related operations upon the expiration of a franchise or right-of-way agreement, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As the result of certain ongoing litigation with a third party, the Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications of the City of New York (“DOITT”) has informed us that they have temporarily suspended any discussions regarding renewals of telecommunications franchises in the City of New York. As a result, it is our understanding that DOITT has not renewed any recently expired franchise agreement, including our franchise agreement which expired on December 20, 2008. Prior to the expiration of our franchise agreement, we sought out and received written confirmation from DOITT that our franchise agreement provides a basis for us to continue to operate in the City of New York pending conclusion of renewal discussions. We intend to continue to operate under our expired franchise agreement pending any renewal. We believe that a number of other operators in the City of New York are operating on a similar basis. Based on our discussions with DOITT and the written confirmation that we have received, we do not believe that DOITT intends to take any adverse actions with respect to the operation of any telecommunications providers as the result of their expired franchise agreements and, that if it attempted to do so, it would face a number of legal obstacles. Nevertheless, any attempt by DOITT to limit our operations as the result of our expired franchise agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to expand our network to new locations, we often need to obtain additional rights-of-way, franchises and other permits. Our failure to obtain these rights in a prompt and cost effective manner may prevent us from expanding our network which may be necessary to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and could expose us to liabilities and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lose or are unable to renew key real property leases where we have located our POPs, it could adversely affect our services and increase our costs as we would be required to restructure our network and move our POPs. We depend on third party service providers for important parts of our business operations and the failure of those third parties to provide their services could negatively affect our services. We rely on third party service providers for important parts of our business, including most of the fibers on which our long haul network operates and significant portions of the conduits into which our fiber optic cables are installed in our metro networks. If these third party providers fail to perform the services required under the terms of our contracts with them or fail to renew agreements on reasonable terms and conditions, it could materially and adversely affect the performance of our services, and we may experience difficulties locating alternative service providers on favorable terms, if at all. Changes in our traffic patterns or industry practice could result in increasing peering costs for our IP network. Peering agreements with other Internet service providers allow us to access the Internet and exchange traffic with these providers. In most cases, we peer with other Internet service providers on a payment-free basis, referred to as settlement-free peering. If other providers change the terms upon which they allow settlement-free peering or if changes in our Internet traffic patterns, including the ratio of our inbound to outbound traffic, cause us to fall below the criteria that these providers use in allowing settlement-free peering, the costs of operating our Internet backbone will likely increase. Any increases in costs could have an adverse effect on our margins and our ability to compete in the Internet services market. Customer agreements contain service level and delivery obligations that could subject us to liability or the loss of revenue. Our contracts with customers generally contain service guarantees and service delivery date targets, which if not met by us, enable customers to claim credits against their payments to us and, under certain conditions, terminate their agreements. If we are unable to meet our service level guarantees or service delivery dates, it could adversely affect our revenue and cash flow. We are required to maintain, repair, upgrade and replace our network and facilities, and our failure to do so could harm our business. Our business requires that we maintain, upgrade, repair and periodically replace our facilities and networks. This requires and will continue to require, management time and the periodic expenditure of capital. In the event that we fail to maintain, upgrade or replace essential portions of our network or facilities, it could lead to a material degradation in the level of services that we provide to our customers which would adversely affect our business. Our networks can be damaged in a number of ways, including by other parties engaged in construction close to our network facilities. In the event of such damage, we will be required to incur expenses to repair the network in order to maintain services to customers. We could be subject to significant network repair and replacement expenses in the event of a terrorist attack or natural disaster damages our network. Further, the operation of our network requires the coordination and integration of sophisticated and highly specialized hardware and software technologies. Our failure to maintain or properly operate this hardware and software can lead to degradations or interruptions in customer service. Our failure to provide proper customer service can result in claims from our customers for credits or damages and can damage our reputation for service, thereby limiting future sales opportunities. Requests to relocate portions of our network can result in additional expenses. We are periodically required to relocate portions of our network by municipalities, railroads, highway authorities and other entities that engage in construction or other activities in areas close to our network. These relocations can be expensive and time consuming to management and can result in interruptions of service to customers. If we are required to engage in an increased amount of relocation activities due to recently announced increased government spending on infrastructure or other reasons, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Governmental regulation may negatively affect our operations. Existing and future government laws and regulations greatly influence how we operate our business. U.S. Federal and state laws directly shape the telecommunications and Internet markets. Consequently, regulatory requirements and changes could adversely affect our operations and also influence the markets for telecommunications and Internet services. We cannot predict the future regulatory framework of our business. Local governments also exercise legal authority that may have an adverse effect on our business because of our need to obtain rights-of-way for our fiber networks. While local governments may not prohibit persons from providing telecommunications services nor treat telecommunication service providers in a discriminatory manner, they can affect the timing and costs associated with our use of public rights-of-way. Government regulation of the Internet may subject us to liability. Laws and regulations that apply to the Internet are becoming more prevalent. The U.S. Congress has considered Internet laws regarding privacy and security relating to the collection and transmission of information over the Internet, entrusting the Federal Trade Commission with strong enforcement power. The U.S. Congress also has adopted laws that regulate the protection of children, copyrights, trademarks, domain names, taxation and the transmission of sexually explicit material over the Internet. The European Union adopted its own privacy regulations and other countries may do so in the future. Other nations have taken actions to restrict the free flow of material deemed objectionable over the Internet. The scope of many of these laws and regulations is subject to conflicting interpretations and significant uncertainty that may take years to resolve. As a result of this uncertainty, we may be exposed to direct liability for our actions and to contributory liability for the actions of our customers. We cannot predict our future tax liabilities. If we become subject to increased levels of taxation, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We provide telecommunication and other services in multiple jurisdictions across the United States and Europe and are therefore subject to multiple sets of complex and varying tax laws and rules. We cannot predict the amount of future tax liabilities to which we may become subject. Any increase in the amount of taxation incurred as a result of our operations or due to legislative or regulatory changes could result in a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe that our current provisions for taxes are reasonable and appropriate, we cannot assure you that these items will be settled for the amounts accrued or that we will not identify additional exposures in the future. Our inability to produce audited financial statements prevented us from filing our federal and state income taxes in a timely manner. Because we were unable to produce auditable financial statements on a timely basis, we delayed the filing of federal and state income tax returns for 2003 to 2006. In December 2008, we filed our income tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007. We are still subject to tax audits in these jurisdictions. While we believe that we will not owe any material amount of income taxes in these jurisdictions due to the significant losses incurred by us, we could be subject to various fines or penalties as a result of our non-timely filings. Stockholders affiliated with certain of our directors own a significant percentage of our shares, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of February 28, 2009, two stockholders affiliated with certain of our directors beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 32.2% of our outstanding common stock and our executive officers and directors, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 2.2% of our common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders could have significant influence over the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including a merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. In addition, third parties may be discouraged from making a tender offer or bid to acquire the Company because of this concentration of ownership. Our charter documents, our Stockholders’ Rights Plan and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws, our Stockholders’ Rights Plan and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control or change in management that would provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. Our Shareholders’ Rights Plan has significant anti-takeover effects by causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, the authorization of undesignated preferred stock gives our Board of Directors the ability to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire control of us. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, this premium may not be realized or the market price of our common stock could decline. 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 