Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are some of the principal risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual business results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements contained in this Report. In addition, future results could be materially affected by general industry and market conditions, changes in laws or accounting rules, general U.S. and non-U.S. economic and political conditions, including a global economic slow-down, fluctuation of interest rates or currency exchange rates, terrorism, political unrest or international conflicts, political instability or major health concerns, natural disasters, commodity prices or other disruptions of expected economic and business conditions. These risk factors should be considered in addition to our cautionary comments concerning forward-looking statements in this Report, including statements related to markets for our products and trends in our business that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our separate section to follow, "Forward-Looking Statements," on page 32 should be considered in addition to the following statements. Current worldwide economic conditions and credit tightening may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. General worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to the effects of the sub-prime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. We are not immune to changes in economic conditions. We believe the current worldwide economic crisis has resulted and may continue to result in a further decline in current and forecasted production volumes for light and commercial vehicles, which will likely result in decreased demand for our products. The worldwide economic crisis also may have other adverse implications on our business. For example, the ability of our customers to borrow money from their existing lenders or to obtain credit from other sources to purchase our products may be impaired. Although we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimating losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past, especially given the current turmoil in the worldwide economy. A significant change in the liquidity or financial condition of our customers could cause unfavorable trends in our receivable collections and additional allowances may be required, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the worldwide economic crisis may adversely impact the ability of suppliers to provide us with materials and components, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. The North American and European automotive industries are in distress and further deterioration could adversely impact our business. Global automotive market sales represented 30%, 40% and 38% of our total net sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. A number of companies in the global automotive industry are facing severe financial difficulties. In North America, General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler have experienced a market decline. They have announced significant restructuring actions in an effort to improve profitability and some have received Federal financing assistance. The North American automotive manufacturers are also burdened with substantial structural costs, such as pension and healthcare costs, that have impacted their profitability and labor relations and may ultimately result in severe financial difficulty, including bankruptcy. Automakers across Europe and Japan are also experiencing difficulties from a weakened economy and tightening credit markets. Automotive industry conditions have adversely affected our supply base. Lower production levels for some of our key suppliers, increases in certain raw material, commodity and energy costs and the global credit market crisis has resulted in severe financial distress among many companies within the automotive supply base. The continuation of financial distress within the automotive industry and the supply base and/or the bankruptcy of one or more of the automakers may lead to supplier bankruptcies, commercial disputes, supply chain interruptions, supplier requests for company sponsored capital support, or a collapse of the supply chain. Our business is cyclical and seasonal in nature and downturns in the medium- and heavy-duty truck, agricultural, automotive and off-road vehicle markets could reduce the sales and profitability of our business. The demand for our products is largely dependent on the domestic and foreign production of medium- and heavy-duty trucks, agricultural, automobiles and off-road vehicles. The markets for our products have historically been cyclical, because new vehicle demand is dependent on, among other things, consumer spending and is tied closely to the overall strength of the economy. Because our products are used principally in the production of vehicles for the medium- and heavy-duty truck, agricultural, automotive and off-road vehicle markets, our sales, and therefore our results of operations, are significantly dependent on the general state of the economy and other factors which affect these markets. A decline in medium- and heavy-duty truck, agricultural, automotive and off-highway vehicle production could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In 2008, approximately 70% were derived from the medium- and heavy-duty truck, agricultural and off-highway vehicle markets and approximately 30% of our net sales were made to the automotive market. Seasonality experienced by the automotive industry also impacts our operations. We typically experience decreased sales during the third quarter of each year due to the impact of scheduled OEM customer plant shutdowns in July for vacations and new model changeovers. The fourth quarter is also impacted by plant shutdowns for the holidays. 9 We may not realize sales represented by awarded business. We base our growth projections, in part, on commitments made by our customers. There commitments generally renew yearly during a program life cycle. If actual production orders from our customers do not approximate such commitments, it could adversely affect our business. The prices that we can charge some of our customers are predetermined and we bear the risk of costs in excess of our estimates. Our supply agreements with some of our customers require us to provide our products at predetermined prices. In some cases, these prices decline over the course of the contract and may require us to meet certain productivity and cost reduction targets. In addition, our customers may require us to share productivity savings in excess of our cost reduction targets. The costs that we incur in fulfilling these contracts may vary substantially from our initial estimates. Unanticipated cost increases or the inability to meet certain cost reduction targets may occur as a result of several factors, including increases in the costs of labor, components or materials. In some cases, we are permitted to pass on to our customers the cost increases associated with specific materials. Cost overruns that we cannot pass on to our customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on the availability and price of raw materials. We require substantial amounts of raw materials and substantially all raw materials we require are purchased from outside sources. The availability and prices of raw materials may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these raw materials could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. The loss or insolvency of any of our major customers would adversely affect our future results. We are dependent on a small number of principal customers for a significant percentage of our net sales. In 2008, our top three principal customers were Navistar International, Deere & Company and Ford Motor Company, which comprised 26%, 10% and 6% of our net sales respectively. In 2008, our top ten customers accounted for 68% of our net sales. The loss of any significant portion of our sales to these customers or any other customers would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The contracts we have entered into with many of our customers provide for supplying the customers’ requirements for a particular model, rather than for manufacturing a specific quantity of products. Such contracts range from one year to the life of the model, which is generally three to seven years. These contracts are subject to renegotiation, which may affect product pricing and generally may be terminated by our customers at any time. Therefore, the loss of a contract for a major model or a significant decrease in demand for certain key models or group of related models sold by any of our major customers could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition by reducing cash flows and our ability to spread costs over a larger revenue base. We also compete to supply products for successor models and are subject to the risk that the customer will not select us to produce products on any such model, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we have significant receivable balances related to these customers and other major customers that would be at risk in the event of their bankruptcy. Consolidation among vehicle parts customers and suppliers could make it more difficult for us to compete favorably. The vehicle part supply industry has undergone a significant consolidation as OEM customers have sought to lower costs, improve quality and increasingly purchase complete systems and modules rather than separate components. As a result of the cost focus of these major customers, we have been, and expect to continue to be, required to reduce prices. Because of these competitive pressures, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or maintain gross margins on product sales to our customers. The trend toward consolidation among vehicle parts suppliers is resulting in fewer, larger suppliers who benefit from purchasing and distribution economies of scale. If we cannot achieve cost savings and operational improvements sufficient to allow us to compete favorably in the future with these larger, consolidated companies, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 10 Our physical properties and information systems are subject to damage as a result of disasters, outages or similar events. Our offices and facilities, including those used for design and development, material procurement, manufacturing, logistics and sales are located throughout the world and are subject to possible destruction, temporary stoppage or disruption as a result of any number of unexpected events. If any of these facilities or offices were to experience a significant loss as a result of any of the above events, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue, and result in large expenses to repair or replace these facilities or offices. In addition, network and information system shutdowns caused by unforeseen events such as power outages, disasters, hardware or software defects; computer viruses and computer security breaks pose increasing risks. Such an event could also result in the disruption of our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue, and result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such network and information systems. We must implement and sustain a competitive technological advantage in producing our products to compete effectively. Our products are subject to changing technology, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to alternative products introduced by competitors. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to meet customers’ changing specifications with respect to quality, service, price, timely delivery and technological innovation by implementing and sustaining competitive technological advances. Our business may, therefore, require significant ongoing and recurring additional capital expenditures and investment in research and development and manufacturing and management information systems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve the technological advances or introduce new products that may be necessary to remain competitive. Our inability to continuously improve existing products and to develop new products and to achieve technological advances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may experience increased costs associated with labor unions that could adversely affect our financial performance and results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 6,400 employees, approximately 1,600 of whom were salaried and the balance of whom were paid on an hourly basis. Certain employees located in Mexico, Sweden, and the United Kingdom are represented by a union but not collective bargaining agreements. We cannot assure you that our employees will not be covered by collective bargaining agreements in the future or that any of our facilities will not experience a work stoppage or other labor disruption. Any prolonged labor disruption involving our employees, employees of our customers, a large percentage of which are covered by collective bargaining agreements, or employees of our suppliers could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition by disrupting our ability to manufacture our products or the demand for our products. Compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations could be costly and require us to make significant expenditures. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing, among other things: · the discharge of pollutants into the air and water; · the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of waste and other materials; · the cleanup of contaminated properties; and · the health and safety of our employees. We believe that our business, operations and facilities have been and are being operated in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. The operation of our manufacturing facilities entails risks and we cannot assure you that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these operations. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving environmental and health and safety laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. 11 We may incur material product liability costs. We are subject to the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the failure of any of our products results in personal injury or death and we cannot assure you that we will not experience material product liability losses in the future. In addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to participate in government-imposed or customer OEM-instituted recalls involving such products. We maintain insurance against such product liability claims, but we cannot assure you that such coverage will be adequate for liabilities ultimately incurred or that it will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim brought against us that exceeds available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in any product recall could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks related to our international operations. Approximately 25.9% of our net sales in 2008 were derived from sales outside of North America. Non-current assets outside of North America accounted for approximately 13.6% of our non-current assets as of December 31, 2008. International sales and operations are subject to significant risks, including, among others: · political and economic instability; · restrictive trade policies; · economic conditions in local markets; · currency exchange controls; · labor unrest; · difficulty in obtaining distribution support and potentially adverse tax consequences; and · the imposition of product tariffs and the burden of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export laws. Additionally, to the extent any portion of our net sales and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, changes in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face risks through our equity investments in companies that we do not control. Our net earnings include significant equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recognized $13.5 million of equity earnings and received $4.2 million in cash dividends from our unconsolidated subsidiaries. Our equity investments may not always perform at the levels we have seen in recent years. Our annual effective tax rate could be volatile and materially change as a result of changes in mix of earnings and other factors. The overall effective tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of our total earnings before tax. However, tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. Losses in certain jurisdictions provide no current financial statement tax benefit. As a result, changes in the mix of earnings between jurisdictions, among other factors, could have a significant impact on our overall effective tax rate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 12 Item 