Item 1A. Risk Factors — Charges for network elements are generally outside of our control because they are proposed by the ILECs and are subject to costly regulatory approval processes.” Significant Customers We had over 410 wholesale customers as of December 31, 2005. For 2005, 2004 and 2003, our 30 largest wholesale customers in each such year collectively comprised 65.4%, 67.4% and 71.6% of our total net revenues, respectively. Two of our wholesale customers, AT&T and Earthlink, accounted for 16.3% and 14.6%, 13.8% and 16.9%, and for 12.5% and 21.5% of our total net revenues for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Intellectual Property We regard certain aspects of our products, services and technology as proprietary and attempt to protect them with patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, restrictions on disclosure and other methods. These methods may not be sufficient to protect our technology. We also generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees and consultants, and generally control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products, services or technology without authorization, or to develop similar technology independently. Currently we have sixteen patents granted and a number of patent applications pending. We intend to seek additional patent protection for our systems and services to the extent possible. These patents may not be issued to us. Even if they are issued, they may not protect our intellectual property from competition. Competitors may design around or seek to invalidate these patents. Further, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. The global nature of the Internet makes it virtually impossible to control the ultimate destination of our proprietary information. Steps taken by us may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our technology. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. In addition, others may sue us alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. A manufacturer of telecommunications hardware named “COVID” has filed an opposition to our trademark application for the mark “COVAD” and design.” Covid is also seeking to cancel our trademark registration for the 14 Table of Contents “Covad” name. We do not believe that these challenges to our trademark application and granted trademark have merit. However, these proceedings are unpredictable and there is no guarantee we will prevail. If we do not succeed, it could limit our ability to provide our services under the “COVAD” name. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had 1,045 employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Our ability to achieve our financial and operational objectives depends in large part upon the continued service of our senior management and key technical, sales, marketing, legal, finance, human resources and managerial personnel, and our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales, marketing, legal, accounting and managerial personnel. Competition for such qualified personnel is intense, particularly in software development, network engineering and product management. In addition, in the event that our employees unionize, we could incur higher ongoing labor costs and disruptions in our operations in the event of a strike or other work stoppage. Available Information We make available free of charge on or through our Internet address located at www.covad.com our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Materials we file with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549. This information may also be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We will provide a copy of any of the foregoing documents to stockholders upon request. Requests should be sent to Covad Communications Group, Inc., 110 Rio Robles, San Jose, California, 95134, Attn: Investor Relations. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Investing in and holding our common stock involve a degree of risk. Many factors, including those described below and set forth elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC, could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. If any of these risk materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business. Our services are subject to government regulation, and changes in current or future laws or regulations and the methods of enforcing the law and regulations could adversely affect our business. Our services are subject to federal, state and local government regulations. In particular, the company and its resellers are dependent on certain provisions of the 1996 Telecommunications Act to procure certain facilities and services from the ILECs that are necessary to provide our services. As a result, our business is highly dependent on rules and rulings from the FCC, legislative actions at both the state and federal level, and rulings from state PUCs. For instance, over the last several years the FCC has made substantial changes to the regulatory environment in which we operate. The FCC’s August 21, 2003 Triennial Review order and its release of further changes on February 4, 2005, limited, and in some cases eliminated our access to some of the network elements that we use to operate our business. Where we no longer have regulated access to network elements, our costs are likely to increase as a result of these orders and we may be unable to profitably offer some of our services. We may be unable to adapt to the changed regulatory environment, in its current form, or to future changes, whether resulting from these orders or from subsequent action by Congress, state legislatures, the courts, the FCC or other regulatory authorities. In addition, the FCC’s August 2003 Triennial Review order and related subsequent orders provided that ILEC fiber based facilities and packet switched based facilities were no longer required to be unbundled and made 15 Table of Contents available to competitive carriers like us. The RBOCs have each announced plans to aggressively deploy new fiber and packet based facilities as replacements for the copper loop based facilities that we use provide our services. This substitution of fiber and packet based facilities will reduce the portion of the market for data and voice services that we can reach utilizing our wireline network. While we are pursuing alternative means of providing services where this occurs, including commercial access agreements with the ILECs and alternative means of providing services, such as fixed wireless, we may not be successful in these efforts, and there may be material adverse effects on our financial condition. Charges for network elements are generally outside of our control because they are proposed by the ILECs and are subject to costly regulatory approval processes. ILECs provide the telephone lines that connect each end-user to our equipment located in their central offices. The 1996 Telecommunications Act generally requires that charges for these unbundled network elements be cost-based and nondiscriminatory. Nonetheless, the nonrecurring and recurring monthly charges for lines (telephone wires) that we require vary greatly. These rates are subject to negotiations between us and the ILECs and to the approval of the state PUCs. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that the non-recurring and recurring charges for lines and other unbundled network elements will increase based on higher rates proposed by the ILECs and approved by state PUCs from time to time, which would increase our operating expenses and reduce our ability to provide competitive products. The impact of judicial and regulatory decisions on the prices we pay to the ILECs for collocation and unbundled network elements is highly uncertain. There is a risk that any new prices set by the regulators could be significantly higher than current prices. As a result of FCC decisions, it is likely that we will pay higher prices for line-shared lines, high-capacity lines and data transport between many of the ILECs central offices. If we are required to pay higher prices to the ILECs for collocation and network components as a result of the FCC’s recent decisions and other judicial and regulatory decisions, it could materially increase our operating expenses and reduce our ability to provide competitive products. Our business will be adversely affected if our interconnection agreements are not renewed or if they are modified on unfavorable terms. We are required to enter into interconnection agreements covering each of the states we serve with the appropriate ILECs in order to provide service in those regions. Many of our existing interconnection agreements have a maximum term of three years. Therefore, we will have to renegotiate these agreements with the ILECs when they expire. A number of these agreements have expired and we are currently in the process of renegotiating them. We may not succeed in extending or renegotiating these interconnection agreements on favorable terms or at all. As the FCC modifies, changes and implements rules related to unbundling and collocation, we generally have to renegotiate our interconnection agreements to implement those new or modified rules. For example, we are involved in a number of renegotiations of interconnection agreements to reflect the FCC’s recent decisions. We may be unable to renegotiate these agreements in a timely manner, or we may be forced to arbitrate and litigate with the RBOCs in order to obtain agreement terms that fully comply with FCC rules. Additionally, disputes have arisen and will continue to arise in the future as a result of differences in interpretations of the interconnection agreements. These disputes have delayed the deployment of network capabilities and services, and resolution of the litigated matters will require ongoing expenditures and management time. In addition, the interconnection agreements are subject to state PUCs, FCC and judicial oversight. These government authorities may modify the terms of the interconnection agreements in a way that reduces our access to, or increases the cost of, the network components that we purchase from the ILECs. We depend on a limited number of customers for the preponderance of our revenues, and we are highly dependent on sales through our resellers. The majority of our revenue comes from Internet service providers, telecommunications carriers and other customers who resell our Internet access and other services to their business and consumer end-users. Our agreements with our resellers are generally non-exclusive, and many of our customers also resell services offered by 16 Table of Contents our competitors. Our agreements with our resellers generally do not contain purchase commitments. A limited number of resellers account for a significant portion of our revenues. Our top 30 resellers accounted for approximately 65.4%, of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005. We expect that our reseller customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue and new end user additions. If we were to lose one or more of our key resellers or if one or more of our key resellers stopped providing us with orders or removed end-users from our network, our revenue and line-growth could be materially adversely affected. Consolidations, mergers and acquisitions involving our key resellers have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. These consolidations, mergers and acquisitions may cause key resellers to stop providing us with orders or to remove end-users from our network. On January 31, 2005, one of our major resellers, AT&T Corp., was acquired by SBC, one of the largest RBOCs and also one of our larger resellers. The surviving company is now known as AT&T, Inc. On January 6, 2006, another one of our resellers, MCI, was acquired by Verizon. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the pre-merger AT&T Corp. and MCI entities accounted for 13.6% and 4.2%, respectively, of our net revenues. The combined AT&T entity and Verizon (including MCI) are both our competitors and resellers of our services. At this time, we cannot predict the effects of this transaction on our revenues derived from the new combined AT&T or from MCI, or the timing of any such effects. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively, especially against established industry competitors with significantly greater financial resources. We face significant competition in the markets for business and consumer Internet access, network access and voice services and we expect this competition to intensify. We face competition from the RBOCs, cable modem service providers, competitive telecommunications companies, traditional and new national long distance carriers, Internet service providers, on-line service providers and wireless and satellite service providers. Many of these competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, better strategic relationships and significantly greater financial, technical or marketing resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to: • develop and adopt new or emerging technologies; • respond to changes in customer requirements more quickly; • devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services; • form new alliances and rapidly acquire significant market share; • undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; • adopt more aggressive pricing policies; and • devote substantially more resources to developing new services. The intense competition from our competitors, including the RBOCs, the cable modem service providers and the competitive telecommunications companies could harm our business. The RBOCs represent the dominant competition in all of our target service areas, and we expect this competition to intensify. The RBOCs have established brand names and reputations for quality service, possess sufficient capital to deploy DSL equipment and other facilities rapidly, have their own telephone lines and can bundle digital data services with their existing voice, wireless and other services to achieve economies of scale in serving customers. They can also offer service to end-users using fiber and fiber-fed loops that are not available to us. Certain RBOCs are aggressively pricing their consumer DSL services as low as $14.95 per month when ordered as part of a bundle, which has slowed sales of stand-alone consumer DSL services by our reseller partners and increased the rate of churn among our existing users. We believe that we pose a competitive risk to the RBOCs and, as both our competitors and our suppliers, they have the ability and the motivation to disadvantage our business. If we are unable to enter into and maintain our agreements with the RBOCs that provide us with access to line-sharing at reasonable rates, we will be unable to price our consumer services at a price that is competitive with the RBOCs. Cable modem service providers, such as Cox Communications, Comcast, and Time Warner, and their respective cable company customers, have deployed high-speed Internet access services over coaxial cable networks. These networks provide similar, and in some cases, higher-speed data services than we provide. In 17 Table of Contents addition, cable providers are beginning to bundle VoIP telephony and other services, such as video-on-demand, with their Internet access offerings. As a result, competition with the cable modem service providers may have a significant negative effect on our ability to secure customers and may create downward pressure on the prices we can charge for our services. New competitors in the market for VoIP services and improvements in the quality of VoIP service provided by competitors over the public Internet could increase competition for our VoIP services. Our business plan is based partly on our ability to provide local and long distance voice services at a lower rate than our competitors. We expect price competition to increase in the VoIP market due to increasing emphasis on VoIP by the local telephone companies and new entrants to the VoIP market. Because networks using VoIP technology can be deployed with less capital investment than traditional networks, there are lower barriers to entry in this market and it may be easier for new competitors to emerge. Increasing competition may cause us to lower our prices or may make it more difficult to attract and retain customers. We believe that our VoIP service does not compete with providers who use the public Internet to transmit communications traffic, as these providers generally cannot provide the quality of service necessary for business-grade services. Future technology advances, however, may enable these providers to offer an improved quality of services to business customers over the Internet with lower costs than we incur by using a private network. This could also lead to increased price competition. Failure to complete development, testing and introduction of new services, including VoIP services, could affect our ability to compete in the industry. We continuously develop, test and introduce new services that are delivered over our network. These new services are intended to allow us to address new segments of the communications marketplace and to compete for additional customers. In some cases, the introduction of new services requires the successful development of new technology. To the extent that upgrades of existing technology are required for the introduction of new services, the success of these upgrades may depend on the conclusion of contract negotiations with vendors and vendors meeting their obligations in a timely manner. In addition, new service offerings may not operate as intended and may not be widely accepted by customers. If we are not able to successfully complete the development and introduction of new services and enhancements to our existing services, including VoIP, LPVA, and wireless services, in a timely manner, our business could be materially adversely affected. We may need to raise additional capital under difficult financial market conditions. We believe our current cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments in debt securities should be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures until we become cash flow positive. We have a business plan that we believe will take us to the point where our operations will yield a positive cash flow without raising additional capital. This business plan is based upon several assumptions, including growth of our subscriber base with a reasonable per subscriber profit margin and improvements in productivity. If actual events differ from these assumptions, we may be required to alter our business plan to reflect these changes. We will continue to monitor events to determine if such adjustments to our business plan are appropriate. We are currently facing a variety of challenges that may affect the assumptions contained in our business plan, including, among others: • customer disconnection rates that reduce our revenues; • significant price reductions by our competitors; • higher levels of marketing expense required to acquire and retain end-users that purchase our services from us and from our resellers; • the need to upgrade our systems by investing in our existing and future technology and infrastructure; • investment opportunities in complementary businesses, acquisitions or other opportunities; 18 Table of Contents • changes in government regulations and legal actions challenging government regulations; and • additional risk factors mentioned throughout this section. We entered into a 10-year resale agreement with SBC (now AT&T, Inc.) in December 2001 under which SBC, its affiliates or special agents will resell our DSL services. As part of the resale agreement, SBC made a $75,000 non-interest-bearing prepayment, which is collateralized by substantially all of our domestic assets. As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance of the SBC’s prepayment was approximately $43,731. This collateralization of the outstanding balance of SBC’s prepayment, in addition to the existence of $125,000 in 3% convertible debentures, may limit our ability to raise additional capital through sales of debt or equity securities. Adverse business, regulatory or legislative developments may require us to raise additional financing, raise our prices or substantially decrease our cost structure. We also recognize that we may not be able to raise additional capital under the current capital market conditions. If we are unable to acquire additional capital or are required to raise it on terms that are less satisfactory than we desire, our financial condition will be adversely affected. In order to become cash flow positive and to achieve profitability, we must add end-users and sell additional services to our existing end-users while minimizing the cost to expand our network infrastructure. We must increase the volume of Internet, data and voice transmission on our network in order to realize the anticipated cash flow, operating efficiencies and cost benefits of our network. If we do not add new customers and maintain our relationships with current customers, we may not be able to substantially increase traffic on our network, which would adversely affect our profitability. To accomplish this strategy, we must, among other things: • acquire new end-users; • enter into and maintain agreements with the RBOCs or obtain favorable regulatory rulings that provide us with access to unbundled network elements on terms and conditions that allow us to profitably sell our consumer services; • enhance, improve and increase sales of our VoIP services; • upgrade our network to improve reliability and remain competitive; • efficiently deploy wireless services and integrate NextWeb; • expand our direct sales capability and infrastructure in a cost-effective manner; and • continue to implement and improve our management information systems, including our client ordering, provisioning, dispatch, trouble ticketing, customer billing, accounts receivable, payable tracking, collection, fixed assets, transaction-based taxes and other management information systems. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and operations. We expect to implement system upgrades, new software releases and other enhancements which could cause disruption and dislocation in our business. If we are successful in implementing our marketing strategy, we may have difficulty responding to demand for our services and technical support in a timely manner and in accordance with our customers’ expectations. We expect these demands may require increased outsourcing of Covad functions to third parties. We may be unable to do this successfully, in which case we could experience an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our end-user disconnection rate reduces our revenue and end-user growth. We experience high disconnection or “churn” rates. Our high end-user churn rate continues to impair the growth we need to cover the cost of maintaining our network. These disconnections occur as a result of several factors, including end-users who: • move to a new location; • disconnect because of better offers in the market; or • disconnect because they do not like our service or the service provided by our resellers. 19 Table of Contents While we are working to address problems with the end-user experience, many of these factors are beyond our control. As a result, our churn rates may increase even if we improve the customer experience. In addition, promotions and rebates that we offer to our resellers and end-users are based on an assumption that a given end-user will maintain our service for a period of time. If our disconnection rate increases for more recently added end-users, we may not recoup the money we spend on these promotions and rebates. We may experience decreasing margins on the sale of our services, which may impair our ability to achieve profitability or positive cash flow. Prices for our services have steadily decreased since we first began operations. We expect we will continue to experience an overall price decrease for our services due to competition, volume-based pricing and other factors. We currently charge higher prices for some of our services than some of our competitors do for similar services. As a result, we cannot assure you that our customers will select our services over those of our competitors. In addition, prices for digital communications services in general have fallen historically, and we expect this trend to continue. As a result of these factors, we cannot predict whether demand for our services will exist at prices that enable us to achieve profitability or positive cash flow. If our internal controls over financial reporting do not comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business, reputation and stock price could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual reports. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to annually attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. Although our management has determined, and our independent registered public accounting firm has attested, that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005, we cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Some of our resellers are facing financial difficulties, which makes it more difficult to predict our revenues. Some of our reseller customers may experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy. If a customer cannot provide us with reasonable assurance of payment, then we only recognize revenue when we collect cash for our services, assuming all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met, and only after we have collected all previous accounts receivable balances. Although we will continue to try to obtain payments from these customers, it is likely that one or more of these customers will not pay us for our services. With respect to resellers that are in bankruptcy proceedings, we similarly may not be able to collect sums owed to us by these customers and we also may be required to refund pre-petition amounts paid to us during the 90 days prior to the bankruptcy filing. The development of our direct business poses operational challenges and may cause our resellers to place fewer orders with us or may cause us to lose resellers. Sales of services directly to end-user customers represent a significant and growing part of our business. As we expand our direct business, we will face new operational challenges. These challenges include, but are not limited to, our ability to: • recruit, hire and train additional direct sales teams; • reduce our cost of acquiring new customers; • create effective automated systems to provision, manage and bill for VoIP services; • manage expanding and increasingly diverse distribution channels; 20 Table of Contents • effectively manage additional vendors; and • continue to enhance our network and access products to provide business-class VoIP services. In addition, some of our existing resellers may perceive us as a potential or actual competitor. As a result, these resellers may reduce the volume or the rate of growth of the sales of our services, or may cease to resell our services entirely. The communications industry is undergoing rapid technological changes and new technologies may be superior to the technology we use. The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments in DSL and VoIP technology and alternative technologies for providing broadband and telephony communications, such as cable modem, satellite and wireless technology. As a consequence, our success may depend on: • third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, to develop and provide us with access to new communications and networking technology; • our ability to anticipate or adapt to new technology on a timely basis; and • our ability to adapt to new products and technologies that may be superior to, or may not be compatible with, our products and technologies. The investments required to address technological changes are difficult to predict and may exceed our available resources. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological changes or fail to obtain access to important technologies, our business will be adversely affected. A system failure could delay or interrupt service to our customers, which could reduce demand for our services. Our operations depend upon our ability to support our highly complex network infrastructure and avoid damage from fires, earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, power losses, excessive sustained or peak user demand, telecommunications failures, network software flaws, transmission cable cuts and similar events. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem at our network operations center or any of our regional data centers could cause interruptions in our services. Similarly, if our third party providers fail to maintain their facilities properly or fail to respond quickly to network or other problems, our customers may experience interruptions in the service they obtain from us. We have experienced some interruptions in our VoIP service as a result of network and equipment issues as we enhance and improve this service. Any damage or failure that interrupts our operations negatively impacts our reputation and makes it more difficult to attract and retain customers. A breach of network security could delay or interrupt service to our customers, which could reduce demand for our services. Our network may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, worms and Trojan horses and other disruptions. Internet service providers, telecommunications carriers and corporate networks have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, interruptions in service as a result of accidental or intentional actions of Internet users, current and former employees and others. Unauthorized access could also potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in our computer systems, our end-users and our reseller’s end-users. This might result in liability to us and also might deter potential customers from purchasing or selling our services. While we attempt to implement and develop additional security measures we have not implemented all of the security measures commercially available, and we may not implement such measures in a timely manner or at all. Moreover, these measures, if and when implemented, may be circumvented, and eliminating computer viruses and alleviating other security problems may require interruptions, delays or cessation of service to our customers and our reseller’s customers, which could harm our business. 21 Table of Contents Our success depends on our retention of certain key personnel, our ability to hire additional key personnel and the maintenance of good labor relations. We depend on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. In particular, our senior management has significant experience in the telecommunications industry and the loss of any of them could negatively affect our ability to execute our business strategy. Additionally, we do not have “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified technical, operations, sales, marketing, finance, legal, human resource, and managerial personnel as we add end-users to our network. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. Our reduced stock price has greatly reduced or eliminated the value of stock options held by many of our employees, making it more difficult to retain employees in a competitive market. In addition, in the event that our employees unionize, we could incur higher ongoing labor costs and disruptions in our operations in the event of a strike or other work stoppage. We depend on a limited number of third parties for equipment supply, software utilities, service and installation and if we are unable to obtain these items from these third parties we may not be able to deliver our services as required. We rely on outside parties to manufacture our network equipment and provide certain network services. These services, software and equipment include: • DSLAMs; • CPE, including modems, routers, bridges and other devices; • network routing and switching hardware; • customer support; • installation services; • customized software design and maintenance; • network management software; • systems management software; • database management software; • collocation space; • software used in our products; • hosting, email and IP provisioning services; • softswitches, used to provide VoIP services; and • Internet connectivity and Internet protocol services. We have in the past experienced supply problems with certain vendors. These vendors may not be able to meet our needs in a satisfactory and timely manner in the future, which may cause us to lose revenue. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional vendors when needed. Our reliance on third-party vendors involves additional risks, including: • the possibility that some of our vendors will leave the DSL equipment business or will stop supporting equipment that we already have installed; • the absence of guaranteed capacity; • the possibility that software vendors will stop supporting software that we use; and • reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, production yields and costs. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. 22 Table of Contents We use third-party vendors offshore for tasks that were previously done by our employees. In 2003 we began using offshore vendors to assist us with software development and certain customer support functions. Because we are using a third-party vendor to manage the day to day operations, we do not have as much control over the hiring and oversight of the vendors’ employees. In addition, the differences in time zones, languages and culture may make it difficult to integrate the vendors’ software development teams with our internal resources. As a result, this arrangement may impair our ability to modify and improve our software and to develop new software in a timely manner. In addition, we have provided these vendors with access to our intellectual property. While we have taken certain contractual and procedural steps to protect our intellectual property, if any of the vendors or their employees improperly uses our intellectual property, it may be more difficult for us to assert our intellectual property rights because we may not be able to use United States courts to enforce our rights. In outsourcing certain support functions to offshore vendors, we face similar integration problems as we do with our software outsourcing arrangements. In addition, these vendors may have difficulties communicating with our customers and resolving non-standard customer issues. We also may experience difficulties as we integrate the vendor’s systems with our own. Some of these offshore locations have experienced civil unrest and terrorism and have been involved in conflicts with neighboring countries. If some of these locations become engaged in armed hostilities, particularly if these hostilities are protracted or involved the threat of or use of weapons of mass destruction, our vendors’ operations could be adversely affected. While we have attempted to contractually protect ourselves against calamities, if our vendors’ operations are adversely affected, our customer service and software development efforts could be negatively impacted. We have made and may make acquisitions of complementary technologies or businesses in the future, which may disrupt our business and be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We intend to consider acquisitions of businesses and technologies in the future on an opportunistic basis. Acquisitions of businesses and technologies involve numerous risks, including the diversion of management attention, difficulties in assimilating the acquired operations, loss of key employees from the acquired company, and difficulties in transitioning key customer relationships. In addition, these acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt and large one-time expenditures. Any such acquisition may not provide the benefits originally anticipated, and there may be difficulty in integrating the service offerings and networks gained through acquisitions and strategic investments with our own. Although we attempt to minimize the risk of unexpected liabilities and contingencies associated with acquired businesses through planning, investigation and negotiation, unexpected liabilities nevertheless may accompany such strategic investments and acquisitions. In addition, the purchase price of an acquired business may exceed the current fair value of the net tangible assets of the acquired business. As a result, we would be required to record material amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could result in significant impairment charges and amortization expense in future periods. These charges, in addition to the results of operations of such acquired businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future acquisitions, or the effect that any such acquisitions might have on our operating or financial results. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to review our intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. In addition, we are required to review our goodwill on at least an annual basis. If presently unforeseen events or changes in circumstances arise which indicate that the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may not be recoverable, we will be required to perform impairment reviews of these assets, which have carrying values of approximately $36,626 as of December 31, 2005. An impairment review could result in a write-down of all or a portion of these assets to their fair values. We will perform an annual impairment review during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. In light of the large carrying value associated with our goodwill and intangible assets, any write-down of these assets may result in a significant charge to our statement of operations in the period any impairment is determined and could cause our stock price to decline. 23 Table of Contents We must pay federal, state and local taxes and other surcharges on our service, the applicability and levels of which are uncertain. Telecommunications providers pay a variety of surcharges and fees on their gross revenues from interstate and intrastate services. Interstate surcharges include FUSF and Common Carrier Regulatory Fees. In addition, state regulators impose similar surcharges and fees on intrastate services and the applicability of these surcharges and fees to our services is uncertain in many cases. The division of our services between interstate and intrastate services, and between services that are subject to surcharges and fees and those that are not, is a matter of interpretation and may in the future be contested by the FCC or state authorities. The FCC is currently considering the nature of Internet service provider-bound traffic and new interpretations or changes in the characterization of jurisdictions or service categories could cause our payment obligations, pursuant to the relevant surcharges, to increase or result in liabilities. In addition, periodic revisions by state and federal regulators of the applicable surcharges may increase the surcharges and fees we currently pay. In addition, we may be required to pay certain state taxes, including sales taxes, depending on the jurisdictional treatment of the services we offer. The amount of those taxes could be significant, depending on the extent to which the various states choose to tax our services. The federal government and many states apply transaction-based taxes to the sales of our products and services and to our purchases of telecommunications services from various carriers. We are in discussions with federal and state tax authorities regarding the extent of our transaction-based tax liabilities. It is reasonably possible that our estimates of our transaction-based tax liabilities could materially change in the near term. We may or may not be able to recover some of those taxes from our customers. We are a party to litigation and adverse results of such litigation matters could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are a defendant in some of the litigation matters described in “Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” While we are vigorously defending these lawsuits, the total outcome of these litigation matters is inherently unpredictable, and there is no guarantee we will prevail. Adverse results in any of these actions could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations and, in some circumstances result in a material adverse effect on us. In addition, defending such actions could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our intellectual property protection may be inadequate to protect our proprietary rights. We regard certain aspects of our products, services and technology as proprietary. We attempt to protect them with patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, restrictions on disclosure and other methods. These methods may not be sufficient to protect our technology. We also generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees and consultants, and generally control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products, services or technology without authorization, or to develop similar technology independently. Currently, we have been issued sixteen patents and we have a number of additional patent applications pending. We intend to prepare additional applications and to seek patent protection for our systems and services. These patents may not be issued to us. If issued, they may not protect our intellectual property from competition. Competitors could design around or seek to invalidate these patents. Effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. The global nature of the Internet makes it virtually impossible to control the ultimate destination of our proprietary information. The steps that we have taken may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our technology. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. We periodically receive notices from others claiming we are infringing their intellectual property rights, principally patent rights. We expect the number of such claims will increase as the number of products and 24 Table of Contents competitors in our industry segments grows, the functionality of products overlap, and the volume of issued software patents and patent applications continues to increase. Responding to infringement claims, regardless of their validity, could: • be time-consuming, costly and result in litigation; • divert management’s time and attention from developing our business; • require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; • require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; or • require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. The price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile, which may result in losses to investors. We believe that a number of factors contribute to this fluctuation and may cause our stock price to decline in the future. While it is not possible to foresee all of the events that could adversely affect the price of our common stock or cause such price to remain volatile, the factors include: • state and federal regulatory and legislative actions; • general economic conditions and the condition of the telecommunications industry; • our ability to maintain existing customers and add new customers and recognize revenue from distressed customers; • our ability to execute our operational plan and reach profitability and cash flow positive from operations; • our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to fund our operations; • adverse litigation results; • announcements of new products, services or pricing by our competitors or the emergence of new competing technologies; • our failure to meet the expectations of investors or of analysts; • the adoption of new, or changes in existing, accounting rules, guidelines and practices, which may materially impact our financial statements and may materially alter the expectations of securities analysts or investors; • the level of demand for broadband Internet access services and VoIP telephony services; • departures of key personnel; and • effective internal controls over financial reporting. The stock market has periodically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of common stock of technology companies. These changes have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may also negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow. (Refer to Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information) We may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal of, interest on and other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness when due. We may also add equipment loans and lease lines to finance capital 25 Table of Contents expenditures and may obtain additional long-term debt, working capital lines of credit and leases, some of which may be on less than optimal terms. Our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 