ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS IN EVALUATING SOLUTIA, CAREFUL CONSIDERATION SHOULD BE GIVEN TO THE RISK FACTORS SET FORTH BELOW, AS WELL AS THE OTHER INFORMATION SET FORTH IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K. ALTHOUGH THESE RISK FACTORS ARE MANY, THESE FACTORS SHOULD NOT BE REGARDED AS CONSTITUTING THE ONLY RISKS PRESENT IN CONNECTION WITH SOLUTIA'S BUSINESSES. EACH OF THESE RISK FACTORS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT SOLUTIA'S BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS AND/OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. IN ADDITION TO THE FOLLOWING DISCLOSURES, PLEASE REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT INCLUDING THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES. CERTAIN BANKRUPTCY CONSIDERATIONS PROLONGED CONTINUATION OF THE CHAPTER 11 CASES MAY HARM THE DEBTORS' BUSINESSES The prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases could adversely affect the Debtors' businesses and operations. So long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, senior management of the Debtors will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the Debtors' reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases will also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of the Debtors' businesses. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 Cases continue, the more likely it is that the Debtors' customers, suppliers, distributors and agents will lose confidence in the Debtors' ability to successfully reorganize their businesses and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, so long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, the Debtors will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the proceedings. The prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may also require the Debtors to seek additional financing, either as part of the DIP credit facility or otherwise, in order to service their debt and other obligations. It may not be possible for the Debtors to obtain additional financing during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases on commercially favorable terms or at all. If the Debtors were to require additional financing during the Chapter 11 Cases and were unable to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all, the Debtors' chances of successfully reorganizing their businesses may be seriously jeopardized. THE DEBTORS MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN CONFIRMATION OF THE PLAN The Debtors may not receive the requisite acceptances to confirm the Plan. Even if the requisite acceptances of the Plan are received, the Bankruptcy Court may not confirm the Plan. A dissenting holder of a claim against or equity interest in Solutia may challenge the balloting procedures and results as not being in compliance with the Bankruptcy Code. Even if the Bankruptcy Court determined that the balloting procedures and results were appropriate, the Bankruptcy Court could still decline to confirm the Plan if it found that any of the statutory requirements for confirmation had not been met, including that the terms of the Plan are fair and equitable to non-accepting Classes. Section 1129 of the Bankruptcy Code sets forth the requirements for confirmation and requires, among other things, a finding by the Bankruptcy Court that (i) the Plan "does not unfairly discriminate" and is "fair and equitable" with respect to any non-accepting Classes, (ii) confirmation of the Plan is not likely to be followed by a liquidation or a need for further financial reorganization and (iii) the value of distributions to non-accepting Holders of Claims within a particular Class under the Plan will not be less than the value of distributions such Holders would receive if the Debtors were liquidated under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. The Bankruptcy Court may determine that the Plan does not satisfy one or more of these requirements, in which case it would not be confirmable by the Bankruptcy Court. If the Plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, it is unclear whether the Debtors will be able to reorganize their businesses and what, if any, distributions holders of claims against or equity interests in Solutia ultimately would receive with respect to their claims or equity interests. If an alternative reorganization could not be agreed upon, it is possible that the Debtors would have to liquidate their assets, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive under the Plan. THE CHANGE OF CONTROL PRODUCED BY THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE DEBTORS MAY RESULT IN A LIMITATION ON OR LOSS OF THE NET OPERATING LOSSES As further discussed in the Disclosure Statement, the issuance under the Plan of common stock in a reorganized Solutia, along with the cancellation of existing equity interests through the Plan, is expected to cause an ownership change to 13 occur with respect to the reorganized Debtors as of the effective date of the Plan. As a result, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code ("IRC") may apply to limit reorganized Solutia's use of its consolidated net operating losses after the effective date. Additionally, the reorganized Debtors' ability to use any remaining capital loss carryforwards and tax credits may be limited. The annual limitation imposed by the particular provision of Section 382 of the IRC that reorganized Solutia expects to apply to its ownership change generally equals the product of (i) the fair market value of the net equity value of reorganized Solutia's stock at the time of the ownership change, taking into account the increase in value of the corporation as a result of the surrender or cancellation of creditor's claims in the transaction (rather than the value without taking into account such increases, as is the case under the general rule for non-bankruptcy ownership changes) multiplied by (ii) the long-term tax-exempt rate in effect for the month in which the ownership change occurs. The long-term tax-exempt rate is published monthly by the IRS and is intended to reflect current interest rates on long-term tax-exempt debt obligations. Accordingly, under this rule the Section 382 limitation would generally reflect the increase in the value of reorganized Solutia's stock resulting from the conversion of debt to equity in the proceeding. Section 383 of the IRC applies a similar limitation to a capital loss carryforward and tax credits. Although it is impossible to predict with absolute certainty the net equity value of Reorganized Solutia immediately after the exchanges contemplated by the Plan, reorganized Solutia's use of its net operating losses is expected to be substantially limited after those exchanges. RISKS RELATED TO THE DEBTORS' BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY THE PRICES OF RAW MATERIALS AND ENERGY REQUIRED FOR SOLUTIA TO PRODUCE ITS PRODUCTS ARE VOLATILE AND CANNOT ALWAYS BE PASSED ON TO CUSTOMERS Solutia purchases large amounts of commodity raw materials, including natural gas, propylene, cyclohexane and benzene. Temporary shortages of these raw materials and energy may occasionally occur. In addition, Solutia typically purchases major requirements for key raw materials under medium-term contracts. Pricing under these contracts may fluctuate as a result of unscheduled plant interruptions, United States and worldwide market conditions and government regulation. Given Solutia's competitive markets, it is not always possible to pass all of these increased costs on to Solutia's customers. In addition, natural gas prices and other raw material and energy costs are currently more than double the average ten-year levels. Elevated raw material and energy costs could significantly reduce Solutia's operating margins in the future. SOLUTIA OPERATES IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY THAT INCLUDES COMPETITORS WITH GREATER RESOURCES THAN SOLUTIA'S The markets in which Solutia competes are highly competitive. Competition in these markets is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of Solutia's competitors may have greater financial, technological and other resources than Solutia and may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. In addition, some of Solutia's competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than Solutia. Consolidation of Solutia's competitors or customers may also adversely affect Solutia's businesses. Furthermore, global competition and customer demands for efficiency will continue to make price increases difficult. SOLUTIA OPERATES IN CYCLICAL BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND ITS FINANCIAL RESULTS ARE LIKELY TO FLUCTUATE ACCORDINGLY Solutia operates in cyclical business segments. Specifically, a substantial portion of Solutia's sales are to customers involved, directly or indirectly, in the housing and automotive industries, both of which are, by their nature, cyclical industries. A downturn in either or both of these industries would result in lower demand for Solutia's products among customers involved in those industries and a reduced ability to pass on cost increases to those customers. TURNOVER IN THE SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM AND LOSSES OF OTHER KEY PERSONNEL COULD HAVE A SIGNIFICANT ADVERSE EFFECT ON SOLUTIA'S RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND ABILITY TO EMERGE FROM CHAPTER 11 The services of Solutia's senior management team, as well as other key personnel, have been integral in Solutia's improving results during the Chapter 11 Case and will be critical to the implementation of Solutia's business strategies going forward and the success of Solutia. If Solutia's emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases is delayed, Solutia's financial results diminish, the terms of incentive compensation programs approved by Solutia's board of directors are not adequate or any other adverse events occur in the Chapter 11 Cases, Solutia may have difficulty retaining current senior management and other key personnel and be unable to hire qualified personnel to fill any resulting vacancies, which could have a significant adverse effect on Solutia's results of operations and ability to emerge from Chapter 11. 14 SOLUTIA'S OPERATIONS ARE RESTRICTED BY THE TERMS OF ITS CURRENT CREDIT FACILITY AND OTHER DEBT ARRANGEMENTS Solutia's various debt obligations include a number of significant restrictive covenants. These covenants could impair reorganized Solutia's financing and operational flexibility and make it difficult for Solutia to react to market conditions and satisfy its ongoing capital needs and unanticipated cash requirements. Specifically, such covenants restrict Solutia's ability and, if applicable, the ability of its subsidiaries to, among other things: o incur additional debt; o make certain investments; o enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; o limit dividends or other payments by Solutia's and certain subsidiaries; o use assets as security in other transactions; o pay dividends on Solutia's common stock or repurchase Solutia's equity interests; o sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; o guarantee the debts of others; o enter into new lines of business; o make capital expenditures; o prepay, redeem or exchange reorganized Solutia's debt; o form any joint ventures or subsidiary investments. In addition, Solutia's various debt obligations require Solutia to periodically meet minimum EBITDA levels on a consolidated basis and for a certain business segment. These financial covenants and tests could limit Solutia's ability to react to market conditions or satisfy extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict Solutia's financing and operations. Solutia's ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of its debt obligations will depend on Solutia's future operating performance. If Solutia fails to comply with such covenants and terms, Solutia would be required to obtain waivers from its lenders to maintain compliance with its debt obligations. If Solutia is unable to obtain any necessary waivers and the debt is accelerated, it would have a material adverse effect on Solutia's financial condition and future operating performance. 15 SOLUTIA HAS AND WILL CONTINUE TO HAVE SIGNIFICANT INDEBTEDNESS Solutia has and will continue to have significant amount of indebtedness. Solutia's significant indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: o Solutia will have to dedicate a significant portion of its cash flow to making interest and principal payments on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. o Level of indebtedness may make Solutia less attractive to potential acquirors or acquisition targets. o Levels of indebtedness may limit Solutia's flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions, and make Solutia more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions as compared to competitors that may be less leveraged. o As described in more detail above, the documents providing for Solutia's indebtedness will contain restrictive covenants that may limit Solutia's financing and operational flexibility. Furthermore, Solutia's ability to satisfy its debt service obligations will depend, among other things, upon its future operating performance and ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. These factors depend partly on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond Solutia's control. Solutia may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet its debt service obligations as well as fund necessary capital expenditures, pension funding obligations and investments in research and development. In addition, if Solutia needs to refinance its debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets or equity, it may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS, INCLUDING PROCEEDINGS RELATED TO ENVIRONMENTAL OBLIGATIONS, COULD IMPOSE SUBSTANTIAL COSTS ON SOLUTIA As a manufacturer of chemical-based materials, Solutia has been subject to various lawsuits involving environmental, hazardous waste, personal injury and product liability claims. Solutia is named in a number of legal proceedings primarily relating to former operations, including claims for personal injury and property damage arising out of releases of or alleged exposure to materials that are classified as hazardous substances under federal environmental law or alleged to be hazardous by plaintiffs. Adverse judgments in these legal proceedings, or the filing of additional environmental or other damage claims against Solutia, may have a negative impact on Solutia's future results of operations. Additionally, administrative and legal costs associated with defending or settling large claims, or large numbers of claims, could have a negative impact on Solutia's future results of operations. It is possible that the Bankruptcy Court could disagree with Solutia's treatment of those claims. It is also possible that third parties, including the U.S. federal government, state regulatory agencies, or others, may challenge the dischargeability of these claims. If these litigation matters or claims are not discharged as expected by Solutia, or if the actual costs are materially greater than estimates associated with those claims, it would have a material adverse effect on Solutia's financial condition and future operating performance. THE APPLICABILITY OF NUMEROUS ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS TO SOLUTIA'S MANUFACTURING FACILITIES COULD CAUSE SOLUTIA TO INCUR MATERIAL COSTS AND LIABILITIES Solutia is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, safety and health laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to land and water and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. Under certain environmental laws, Solutia can be held strictly liable for hazardous substance contamination of any real property it has ever owned, operated or used as a disposal site or for natural resource damages associated with such contamination. Solutia is also required to maintain various environmental permits and licenses, many of which require periodic modification and renewal. Solutia's operations entail the risk of violations of those laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. In addition, these requirements and their enforcement may become more stringent in the future. Non-compliance could subject Solutia to material liabilities, such as government fines, third-party lawsuits or the suspension of non-compliant operations. Solutia may also be required to make significant site or operational modifications at substantial cost. Future developments could also restrict or eliminate Solutia's ability to continue to manufacture certain products or could require Solutia to make modifications to its products. 16 At any given time, Solutia is involved in litigation, administrative proceedings and investigations of various types in a number of jurisdictions involving potential environmental liabilities, including clean-up costs associated with hazardous waste disposal sites, natural resource damages, property damages and personal injury. Solutia may be required to spend substantial sums to defend or settle these actions, to pay any fines levied against it or satisfy any judgments or other rulings rendered against it. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. One liable party could be held responsible for all costs at a site, regardless of fault, percentage of contribution to the site or the legality of the original disposal. Solutia may also face liability for violations under environmental laws occurring prior to the date of its acquisition of properties subject thereto. Solutia could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, natural resources damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. SOLUTIA HAS SUBSTANTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE COSTS Due to the nature of its business, Solutia makes substantial expenditures for environmental and regulatory compliance. During 2005, Solutia spent approximately $8 million on capital projects for various environmental matters, $50 million for the management of environmental programs, including the operation and maintenance of facilities for environmental control, and $12 million for remediation activities. In 2004 Solutia spent approximately $8 million on capital projects for various environmental matters, $50 million for the management of environmental programs, including the operation and maintenance of facilities for environmental control, and $19 million for remediation activities. The substantial amounts that Solutia may be required to spend on environmental capital projects and programs could cause substantial cash outlays by Solutia and, accordingly, may limit Solutia's financial and operating flexibility. In addition, although Solutia believes that it has correctly budgeted and, to the extent appropriate under applicable accounting principles, reserved for these amounts, factors beyond Solutia's control may render these budgeted and reserved amounts inadequate. These factors include changing governmental policies and regulations, the commencement of new governmental proceedings or third party litigation regarding environmental remediation, hazardous waste or personal or property damage resulting from environmentally harmful activity, the discovery of unknown conditions and unforeseen problems encountered in environmental remediation programs. PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED IN OPERATING ITS PRODUCTION FACILITIES COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT SOLUTIA'S BUSINESS Solutia is dependent upon the continued safe operation of its production facilities. Solutia's production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unscheduled down time and environmental hazards. From time to time in the past, Solutia has had incidents that have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted its manufacturing, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. For example, in September 2005, Solutia's integrated nylon production facility at Chocolate Bayou (Alvin, Texas) was temporarily shut down for approximately three weeks as a result of evacuations in advance of Hurricane Rita. In addition, some of Solutia's products involve the manufacture or handling of a variety of reactive, explosive and flammable materials. Use of these products by Solutia's customers could result in liability to Solutia if an explosion, fire, spill or other accident were to occur. SOLUTIA'S INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS POSE RISKS NOT ENCOUNTERED BY ITS DOMESTIC SALES AND OPERATIONS Solutia generates revenue from export sales, as well as from operations conducted outside the United States. For example, approximately 41 percent of Solutia's consolidated sales in 2005 were made into markets outside the United States, including Europe, Canada, Latin America and Asia. Approximately 68 percent of the sales of the Performance Products segment were made into markets outside the United States. Operations outside the United States are potentially subject to a number of risks and limitations that are not present in domestic operations, including fluctuations in currency values, trade restrictions, investment regulations, governmental instability and other potentially detrimental governmental practices or policies affecting companies doing business abroad. 17 The functional currency of each of Solutia's non-United States operations is generally the local currency. Exchange rates between some of these currencies and U.S. dollars have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the future. It is possible that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates will have a negative effect on Solutia's results of operations. Additionally, Solutia generates revenues from sales in countries that may experience greater degrees of economic and political uncertainty than those experienced by Solutia in the United States. MANY OF SOLUTIA'S PRODUCTS AND MANUFACTURING PROCESSES ARE SUBJECT TO RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND SOLUTIA'S BUSINESS WILL SUFFER IF SOLUTIA FAILS TO KEEP PACE Many of Solutia's products (and their corresponding manufacturing processes) participate in markets that are subject to rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. Solutia must continue to enhance its existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved capabilities to continue to be a market leader. Solutia must also continue to make improvements in its manufacturing processes and productivity to maintain its competitive position. When Solutia invests in new technologies, processes or production facilities, it will face risks related to construction delays, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical difficulties related to start-up. Solutia's inability to anticipate, respond to, capitalize on or utilize changing technologies could have an adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in any given period. IF SOLUTIA IS UNABLE TO PROTECT ITS INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, ITS SALES AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED Solutia owns a large number of patents that relate to a wide variety of products and processes and has a substantial number of patent applications pending. Solutia owns a considerable number of established trademarks in many countries under which it markets its products. These patents and trademarks in the aggregate are of material importance to Solutia's operations and to its Performance Products and Services and Integrated Nylon segments. Solutia's performance may depend in part on its ability to establish, protect and enforce such intellectual property and to defend against any claims of infringement, which involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions and uncertainties. In the future, Solutia may have to rely on litigation to enforce its intellectual property rights and contractual rights. In addition, Solutia may face claims of infringement that could interfere with its ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to its business operations. If litigation that Solutia initiates is unsuccessful, Solutia may not be able to protect the value of some of its intellectual property. In the event a claim of infringement against Solutia is successful, Solutia may be required to pay royalties or license fees to continue to use technology or other intellectual property rights that it has been using or it may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable period of time. If Solutia is unable to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, Solutia may be forced to cease selling or using any of its products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, or to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename its products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and may be time-consuming, if possible. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to Solutia and diversions of some of Solutia's resources. Solutia's intellectual property rights may not have the value that Solutia believes them to have, which could result in a competitive disadvantage or adversely affect Solutia's business and financial performance. SOLUTIA'S INSURANCE MAY BE INADEQUATE AND SOLUTIA MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN INSURANCE IN THE FUTURE ON REASONABLE TERMS OR AT ALL Solutia evaluates risk retention and insurance levels for product liability, workplace health and safety, property damage and other potential areas of risk. Solutia relies on third-party insurance to protect it from some of these risks. Additionally, Solutia historically has relied upon Owner-Controlled Insurance Programs ("OCIP") to satisfy certain regulatory requirements for the maintenance of insurance, including (for example) compliance with state laws mandating coverage for workers' compensation exposure. Under the terms of these arrangements, Solutia is responsible for paying the costs associated with all insurance claims, and engages the services of insurance companies to provide claims-handling services. If Solutia becomes incapable of continuing to rely on the OCIP for these exposures, Solutia would be forced to consider alternative arrangements. Solutia may, however, incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of such insurance. In addition, the insurance industry has become more selective in offering insurance, and insurance costs have risen significantly in recent years. Solutia may not be able to obtain insurance in the future on reasonable terms or at all. 18 SIGNIFICANT PAYMENTS MAY BE REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN THE FUNDING OF SOLUTIA'S QUALIFIED PENSION PLAN Solutia maintains a qualified pension plan under which certain employees and retirees of Solutia are entitled to receive benefits. Although Solutia has frozen future benefit accruals under the pension plan, significant liabilities still remain. In order to fund the pension plan, Solutia may need to make significant contributions to the pension plan in 2006 and going forward. Solutia may be unable to obtain financing to make these pension plan contributions. In addition, even if financing for these contributions is obtained, the funding obligations, and the carrying costs of debt incurred to fund the obligations could have a significant adverse effect on Solutia's results of operations. In addition, Solutia is party to certain litigation with respect to the pension plan as more fully described in Part I, Item 3 - Legal Proceedings. It is not known what funding liabilities may be required of Solutia under ERISA, 26 U.S.C. Section 412, 29 U.S.C. Section 1082 and any other applicable law if a judgment is entered against the Solutia pension plan in this litigation, given that Solutia is the sponsor of the Solutia Pension Plan. If a final judgment is entered against the Solutia pension plan, the liability resulting from such judgment could have a material adverse effect on Solutia's financial results and continuing operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 