Item 1A. Risk Factors We may not have adequate financial resources to execute our business plan. At December 31, 2005, we had cash and cash equivalents of $6.74 million. While we believe that existing sources of liquidity are sufficient to meet expected cash needs through 2006, we have experienced recurring net losses and have an accumulated deficit totaling $122.09 million at December 31, 2005 and have historically relied upon cash flows from investing and financing activities to offset significant cash outflows from operating activities. To the extent necessary, we believe that we can manage costs and expenses at reduced levels to conserve working capital. The need for any such cost and expense reductions would likely delay implementation of our business plan. Ultimately, we must achieve sufficient revenues in order to generate positive net earnings and cash flows from operations. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our revenues. We have a history of operating losses and may incur losses in the future. We have experienced annual losses from continuing operations since inception of our operations. Our losses from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $4.98 million, $13.75 million, and $9.51 million, respectively. These losses have been due principally to the high levels of research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses that we have incurred in order to develop and market our products, restructuring charges and impairment charges. In addition, markets for our products have developed more slowly than expected in many cases and may continue to do so. As a result, we may incur operating losses in the future. Markets for our products and services may develop slowly. There are many factors that affect the market demand for our products and services that we cannot control. Demand for our WAVE® system is affected by the needs and budgetary resources of research institutions, universities, hospitals and others who use the WAVE® system for genetic-variation research. The WAVE® system represents a significant expenditure by these types of customers and often requires a long sales cycle. If revenues from the sales of our products and services continue at current levels, we may need to take steps to further reduce operating expenses or raise additional working capital. We cannot assure you that sales will increase or that we will be able to reduce operating expenses or raise additional working capital. One customer accounted for a significant portion of sales. No customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net sales for any period presented. However, sales to a large pharmaceutical company totaled $2.19 million, $1.66 million and $0.39 million during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and represented 9%, 7%, and 2% of consolidated net sales. Sales to this customer are governed by a non-binding master services agreement dated August 22, 2002. Accordingly, the amount of sales to this customer is subject to change. The sale of our products and business operations in international markets subjects us to additional risks. During the past several years, international sales have represented approximately 55-68% of our total net sales. As a result, a major portion of our revenues and expenses are subject to risks associated with international sales and operations. These risks include: • payment cycles in foreign markets are typically longer than in the U.S., and capital spending budgets for research agencies can vary over time with foreign governments; 6 • changes in foreign currency exchange rates can make our products more costly and operating expenses higher in local currencies since our foreign sales and operating expenses are typically paid for in U.S. Dollars, British Pounds or the Euro; and • the potential for changes in U.S. and foreign laws or regulations that result in additional import or export restrictions, higher tariffs or other taxes, more burdensome licensing requirements or similar impediments to our ability to sell products and services profitably in these markets. Our WAVE® system includes hardware components and instrumentation manufactured by a single supplier and if we are no longer able to obtain these components and instrumentation our ability to manufacture our products could be impaired. We rely on a single supplier, Hitachi High Technologies America, to provide the basic instrument used in our WAVE® systems. While other suppliers of instrumentation and computer hardware are available, we believe that our arrangement with Hitachi offers strategic advantages. Hitachi is replacing its current instrument line with a new instrument line. While we presently plan to convert our technology and applications to this new instrument line, such conversion may not be successful and, therefore, we may incur additional costs for the custom manufacturing of the current instrument line. If we were required to seek alternative sources of supply, it could be time consuming or expensive or require significant and costly modification of our WAVE® system. Also, if we were unable to obtain instruments from Hitachi in sufficient quantities or in a timely manner, our ability to manufacture our products could be impaired, which could limit our future revenues. We may not have adequate personnel to execute our business plan. In order to reduce our operating costs, we have significantly reduced the number of employees, including reductions in our research and development staff and our sales and marketing personnel. In addition, we may lose other key management, scientific, technical, sales and manufacturing personnel from time to time. It may be very difficult to replace personnel if they are needed in the future, and the loss of key personnel could harm our business and operating results. We cannot assure you that our employee reductions will not impair our ability to continue to develop new products and refine existing products in order to remain competitive. In addition, these reductions could prevent us from successfully marketing our products and developing our customer base. Our markets are very competitive. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we do and/or may enjoy other competitive advantages. This may allow them to more effectively market their products to our customers or potential customers, to develop products that make our products obsolete or to produce and sell products less expensively than us. As a result of these competitive factors, demand for and pricing of our products and services could be negatively affected. Our patents may not protect us from others using our technology that could harm our business and competitive position. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop similar or alternative products or technology, duplicate any of our products, or, if patents are issued to us, design around the patented products developed by us. Our patents or licenses could be challenged by litigation and, if the outcome of such litigation were adverse to us, our competitors could be free to use our technology. We may not be able to obtain additional patents for our technology, or if we are able to do so, patents may not provide us with substantial protection or be commercially beneficial. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in litigation if we are required to defend ourselves in patent suits brought by third parties or if we initiate such suits. We cannot be certain that other measures taken to protect our intellectual property will be effective. We rely upon trade secret protection, copyright and trademark laws, non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions for some of our confidential and proprietary information that is not subject matter for which patent protection is being sought. Such measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. If such measures do not protect our rights, third parties could use our technology and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. 7 We are dependent upon our licensed technologies and may need to obtain additional licenses in the future to offer our products and remain competitive. We have licensed key components of our technologies from third parties. If these agreements were to terminate prematurely due to our breach of the terms of these licenses or we otherwise fail to maintain our rights to such technology, we may lose the right to manufacture or sell a substantial portion of our products. In addition, we may need to obtain licenses to additional technologies in the future in order to keep our products competitive. If we fail to license or otherwise acquire necessary technologies, we may not be able to develop new products that we need to remain competitive. The protection of intellectual property in foreign countries is uncertain. A significant percentage of our sales are to customers located outside the U.S. The patent and other intellectual property laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. We may need to bring proceedings to defend our patent rights or to determine the validity of our competitors’ foreign patents. These proceedings could result in substantial cost and diversion of our efforts. Finally, some of our patent protection in the U.S. is not available to us in foreign countries due to the laws of those countries. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. There are a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications submitted for technologies in, or related to, our area of business. As a result, any application or exploitation of our technology could infringe patents or proprietary rights of others and any licenses that we might need as a result of such infringement might not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. This may lead others to assert patent infringement or other intellectual property claims against us. Our failure to comply with any applicable government regulations or otherwise respond to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous chemicals that we use may adversely affect our results of operations. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. We are subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we could be required to pay penalties or be held liable for any damages that result and this liability could exceed our financial resources. We cannot assure you that accidental contamination or injury will not occur. Any such accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities and operations, resulting in delays and increased costs. The price for our common stock is volatile and may drop. The trading price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly over recent years. The volatility in the price of our stock is attributable to a number of factors, not all of which relate to our operating results and financial position. Nevertheless, continued volatility in the market price for our stock should be expected and we cannot assure you that the price of our stock will not decrease in the future. Fluctuations or further declines in the price of our stock may affect our ability to sell shares of our stock and to raise capital through future equity financing. If we are unable to maintain our Nasdaq listing, your ability to trade shares of our common stock could suffer. In order for our common stock to remain listed on the Nasdaq National Market (“Nasdaq”), we must meet the minimum listing requirements for continued listing, including, among other requirements, minimum bid price and market value of public float requirements. On February 15, 2006, we were notified that the bid price for our common stock over a 30-day period was below the $1.00 minimum required for continued listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq. In order to remain listed, the minimum bid price for our common stock must be at least $1.00 per share over ten consecutive business days before August 14, 2006. If we are not able to regain compliance with this listing requirement, we may be 8 delisted from the Nasdaq. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq, transactions in our common stock would likely be conducted only in the over-the counter market, or potentially on regional exchanges, which could negatively impact the trading volume and price of our common stock, and investors may find it more difficult to purchase or dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common stock. In addition, if our common stock were not listed on the Nasdaq and the trading price of our common stock fell below $1.00 per share, trading in our common stock would also be subject to the requirements of certain rules which require additional disclosures by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a “penny stock.” In such event, the additional burdens imposed on broker-dealers to effect transactions in our common stock could further limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. We may issue a substantial amount of our common stock to holders of options and warrants and this could reduce the market price for our stock. At December 31, 2005, we had obligations to issue 13,625,675 shares of common stock including outstanding stock options representing 5,563,098 shares and warrants representing 8,062,577 shares. The issuance of these additional shares of common stock may be dilutive to our current shareholders and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is thinly traded and a large percentage of our shares are held by a small group of unrelated, institutional owners. At March 30, 2006, we had 49,189,672 shares of common stock outstanding. Fewer than ten unrelated, institutional holders own 50% to 70% of these shares. The sale of significant shares into the public market has potential to cause significant downward pressure on the price of our common stock. This is particularly the case if the shares being placed into the market exceed the market’s ability to absorb the stock. Such an event could place further downward pressure on the price of our common stock. This presents an opportunity for short sellers to contribute to the further decline of our stock price. If there are significant short sales of our stock, the price decline that would result from this activity will cause the share price to decline more so, which, in turn, may cause long holders of the stock to sell their shares thereby contributing to sales of stock in the market. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 