Item 1A. Risk Factors We will require additional capital to fund our operations and obligations. We believe that we will be able to finance our capital requirements and operations through, at least, March 31, 2008, assuming that (i) we are able to repay a portion of our senior secured convertible promissory notes due July 2, 2007, which we refer to as the convertible notes, with our common stock as discussed below, (ii) the convertible notes and our $5.5 million senior subordinated discounted promissory notes, which we refer to as the discount note, are not declared in default within this timeframe, and (iii) our actual revenues and expenses are within our current projected estimates. As of December 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents of $2.8 million. Under the terms of our convertible notes, we are required to maintain a cash balance of at least $1.5 million. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding payments to be made under the convertible notes are $2.1 million, plus interest, and the amount of each remaining monthly principal payments under the convertible notes are as follows: $317,500 in January and February 2007; $305,450 in March 2007; and $292,500 from April 2007 through July 2007. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding principal amount of $5.5 million was due on April 1, 2008 under our amended discount note and interest payments of $165,000 are payable under the discount note quarterly until the maturity date. As of March 28, 2006, we entered into an agreement to further amend the discount note to give us the option to extend the stated maturity date of the discount note from April 1, 2008 to September 30, 2008. We have until December 31, 2007 to exercise this option and if we elect to exercise the option, the outstanding principal amount of the discount note will automatically increase by $575,000. Under the terms of the amended discount note, we are required to pay the discount note holder an amount equal to 25% of the gross proceeds raised in any equity financing transaction completed while the discount note is outstanding, which amount will be applied as payment toward the then outstanding principal amount of the discount note. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Recent Developments” for a more detailed description of the amendments to the discount note. Given our cash level and debt repayment schedules, we are seeking to obtain additional debt or equity financing and/or seeking to restructure or refinance our existing indebtedness, subject to obtaining any required consent from our debt holders, which may result in the issuance of additional debt or equity securities that will further dilute our existing shareholders. In addition, we are exploring the licensing of certain non-strategic technology assets to enhance our liquidity and further reduce our cost structure, as well as the sale of specific non-strategic technology assets redundant with our core technology products, subject to obtaining the consent of our debt holders to sell such assets. In the event that we are successful in the sale or licensing of these non-strategic assets, we may be required to use the proceeds to reduce the outstanding balance of the convertible notes or the discount note. In addition, if we are ultimately unable, for any reason, to receive cash payments expected from our customers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flows. Should we be unable to satisfy our interest and principal payment obligations under our convertible notes through the issuance of shares of our common stock, we will be required to pay those obligations in cash. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations as well as our obligations under our discount note, we may have to restructure or limit our operations. Under the terms of the discount note, we are prohibited from paying the monthly principal and interest payments under the convertible notes in cash to the extent we can make such payments in shares of our common stock in accordance with the terms of the convertible notes. However, the terms of the convertible notes impose limitations on the number of shares we can use to make principal and interest payments based on the trading price and volume of our common stock. As a result, during periods when the trading price and volume of our common stock has declined, we have not been able to make the entire principal and interest payments under the convertible notes in shares of common stock. Historically, we have made at least a portion of the monthly principal and interest payments on the convertible notes in shares of common stock. If we cannot make principal and interest payments under the convertible notes with shares of common stock, we will have to use our available cash to make such payments. In February 2007, our registration statement registering 2,500,000 shares of common stock for resale was declared effective, which was our estimate of the number of shares of common stock issuable as payment for the remaining principal and interest payments on the convertible notes or upon conversion of the convertible notes. We may also be required to make monthly principal and interest payments on the convertible notes in cash instead of shares of common stock if this registration statement later ceases to remain effective. As of March 30, 2007, approximately 2.2 million shares of common stock remain available for issuance under the registration statement. 5 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, but not limited to: Ÿ requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow from operations to service the indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; Ÿ increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; Ÿ limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; Ÿ limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and Ÿ placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt obligations and competitors that have better access to capital resources. Our convertible notes and discount note provide that upon the occurrence of various events of default and change of control transactions, the holders would be entitled to require us to prepay the notes for cash, which could leave us with little or no working capital for operations or capital expenditures. Our convertible notes and discount note allow the holders thereof to require us to prepay the notes upon the occurrence of various events of default, such as the failure to list our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board or another acceptable exchange if we are delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market or our receiving a qualification from our auditors as to our ability to continue as a “going concern.” The convertible notes and the discount note contain cross-default provisions, which means that a default under either instrument results in a default under the other instrument. If we are unable to comply with the covenants under the convertible notes or the discount note, the holders of the convertible notes and the discount note may declare us in default and may declare all amounts due under the notes, including any accrued interest and penalties. As of December 31, 2006 and the date of this filing, we were in compliance with the covenants under the convertible notes and the discount note. We expect to remain in compliance with the covenants of the convertible notes and discount note. However, no assurance is made that we will remain in compliance with all of the covenants under the convertible notes and the discount note. We may also be required to prepay the convertible notes and the discount note upon the occurrence of specified change of control transactions. If an event of default or a change in control occurs, we may be unable to prepay the entire amount due under the convertible notes and the discount note in cash. Even if we were able to prepay the entire amount in cash, any such prepayment could leave us with little or no working capital for our business. We have not established a sinking fund for payment of our obligations under our notes, nor do we anticipate doing so. We may not generate an operating profit. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was approximately $1.2 billion. We may never again generate an operating profit or, even if we do become profitable from operations at some point, we may be unable to sustain that profitability. We generate a significant portion of our revenues and accounts receivable from two customers. For the year ended December 31, 2006, two customers accounted for $3.8 million or 23.8% of our total revenues. For 2005, these same two customers accounted for $8.7 million or 42.0% or our total revenue, and for 2004, they accounted for $11.2 million or 48.9% of our total revenues. As of December 31, 2006, these two customers accounted for $243,000 or 6.3% of our accounts receivable balance, of which $168,000 has been collected as of March 1, 2007. Although we have had a successful collection history with these customers, and do not foresee any collection issues, there can be no assurance that we will be able to collect outstanding balances and future invoices from them. We have contractual obligations to provide consulting services over many periods. We maintain a professional services and consulting workforce to fulfill contracts that we enter into with our customers that may extend over multiple periods. Our profitability is largely a function of performing against customer contractual arrangements within the estimated costs to perform these obligations. If we exceed these estimated costs, our profitability under these contracts may be negatively impacted. In addition, if we are not able to obtain sufficient work to keep all of our professionals on revenue generating projects, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we fail to meet client expectations in the performance of our services, our business could suffer. Our failure to meet client expectations in the performance of our services, including the quality, cost, and timeliness of our services, may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain clients. If a client is not satisfied with our services, we will generally spend additional human and other resources at our own expense to ensure client satisfaction. Such expenditures will typically result in a lower margin on such engagements and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents We may be unable to maintain our listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market, which could cause our stock price to fall and decrease the liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market, or Nasdaq. Continued listing on Nasdaq requires us to meet certain qualitative standards, including maintaining a certain number of independent Board members and independent audit committee members, and certain quantitative standards, including that we maintain at least $2.5 million in shareholders’ equity and that the closing price of our common stock not be less than $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days. On September 27, 2006, we received written notification, or the notice, from Nasdaq that for 30 consecutive trading days the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share required for continued listing under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4), or the rule. We were provided an initial period of 180 calendar days, or until March 26, 2007, to regain compliance with the rule. The notice states the Nasdaq staff, or the staff, will provide written notification that the we have achieved compliance with the rule if at any time before March 26, 2007, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, although the notice also states that the staff has the discretion to require compliance for a period in excess of 10 consecutive business days, but generally no more than 20 consecutive business days, under certain circumstances. On March 27, 2007, we received written notification, or the second notice, from Nasdaq that the staff had determined that we did not regain compliance with the rule and that we were not eligible for an additional 180 day compliance period because we did not meet the Nasdaq Capital Market initial listing criteria set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c). Specifically, we did not meet The Nasdaq Capital Market initial listing criteria of (i) having shareholders’ equity of at least $5 million, having a market value of listed securities of at least $50 million or having net income from continuing operations of $750,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the last three most recently completed fiscal years, and (ii) having a market value of listed securities of at least $5 million. The second notice stated that as a result our stock will be delisted on April 5, 2007, unless we request an appeal of the staff’s determination to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel by April 3, 2007. On April 2, 2007, we requested an appeal of the staff’s determination to delist our securities to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. As of April 2, 2007, we have not received a hearing date to consider our appeal. There can be no assurance that the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel will grant our request for continued listing. If our stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, we will be obligated to make monthly payments, in cash, of approximately $88,000 per month to the holders of our convertible notes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and may leave us with little or no working capital for our business. Under the terms of the registration rights agreement we entered into with the holders of the convertible notes in August 2005, if our common stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market for any reason for more than three business days, we are obligated to pay the holders of our convertible notes in cash an aggregate amount equal to 1.5% of the original principal amount of the convertible notes for the first calendar month and each additional calendar month after delisting until the convertible notes are no longer outstanding. Based on the original principal amount of the convertible notes, this penalty would be approximately $88,000 per month. If we are required to make these monthly payments in cash, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected and may leave us with little or no working capital for our business. If our stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market or our share price declines significantly, then our stock may be deemed to be penny stock. If our common stock is considered penny stock, it would be subject to rules that impose additional sales practices on broker-dealers who sell our securities. Because of these additional obligations, some brokers may be unwilling to effect transactions in our stock. This could have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock and the ability of investors to sell their common stock. For example, broker-dealers must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Also, a disclosure schedule must be prepared prior to any transaction involving a penny stock and disclosure is required about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. If our stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, we may be unable to license our products and sell our services to prospective or existing customers. If our stock is delisted, our prospective and existing customers may lose confidence that we can continue as a viable business to provide support necessary to further develop our solutions and provide ongoing maintenance and consulting services. Prospective and existing customers could consider alternative solutions or significantly reduce the value they are willing to pay for our solutions to compensate for the potential added risk to their business. If our stock is delisted, our ability to meet our revenue goals could be adversely impacted, resulting in deterioration of the financial condition of our business. 7 Table of Contents Our success depends on our ability to retain key management personnel, whom we may not be able to retain. We believe that our success depends on the continued employment of our senior management team. If one or more members of our senior management team were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our success could be adversely affected. We may not be able to hire or retain enough additional personnel to meet our hiring needs. Our success also depends on having highly trained professional services and software development personnel. If we are unable to retain our personnel, it could limit our ability to service our customers and design and develop products, which could reduce our attractiveness to potential customers, investors, or acquirers. We may need to hire additional personnel if our business grows. A shortage in the number of trained consultants and developers could limit our ability to implement our software if we are able to license software to new customers or if our present customers ask us to perform more services for them. Competition for personnel, particularly for employees with technical expertise, could be strong. Our business, financial condition, and operating results will be materially adversely affected if we cannot hire and retain suitable personnel. Our cost containment and cost reduction initiatives may yield further unintended consequences, such as reduced employee morale, decreased productivity and disclosures of confidential information about us by employees that seek employment with others in violation of their confidentiality agreements with us. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to forecast and could vary significantly. If our operating results in a future quarter or quarters do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock may fall. Our quarterly operating results will be substantially dependent on software licenses and professional services booked and delivered in that quarter. Any delay in the recognition of revenue for any of our license transactions or professional services could cause significant variations in our quarterly operating results and could cause our revenues to fall significantly short of anticipated levels. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate significantly due to other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: Ÿ anticipated lengthy sales cycle for our products; Ÿ the size and timing of individual license transactions; Ÿ intense and increased competition in our target markets; Ÿ our ability to develop, introduce, and bring to market new products and services, or enhancements to our existing products and services, on a timely basis; and Ÿ risks associated with past acquisitions. If we are able to grow our business, we may not be able to manage the growth successfully. If we are able to grow our business, such growth could place a significant strain on our resources and systems. To manage our growth, we must implement systems and train and manage our employees. In addition, we may not be able to limit our exposure to non-creditworthy customers. We may issue our securities in capital raising or acquisition transactions, which could dilute our existing shareholders. From time to time, we consider potential acquisitions in an attempt to grow our business. In addition, we may seek to raise additional capital. We may be required to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for acquisitions or to raise additional capital, which may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. New versions and releases of our products may contain errors or defects. Our software products may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. This may result in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products. Errors in new releases and new products after their introduction could result in delays in release, lost revenues and customer frustration during the period required to correct these errors. We may in the future discover errors and defects in new releases or new products after they are shipped or released. We utilize third-party software that we incorporate into and include with our products and solutions, and impaired relations with these third-parties, defects in third-party software, or their inability or failure to enhance their software over time could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance and financial condition. We incorporate and include third-party software into and with our products and solutions. We are likely to incorporate and include additional third-party software into and with our products and solutions as we expand our product offerings. If our relations with any of these third-party software providers become impaired, and if we are unable to obtain or develop a replacement for the software, our business could be harmed. Our products may be impacted if errors occur in the third-party software that we utilize. It may be more difficult for us to correct any defects in third-party software because the software is not within our control. Accordingly, our business could be adversely affected in the event of any errors in this software. There can be no assurance that these third-parties will continue to invest the appropriate levels of resources in their products and services to maintain and enhance the capabilities of their software. 8 Table of Contents We have shifted a significant portion of our product development operations to India, which poses significant risks. Since September 2003, an unrelated third-party has provided us with software development services in Bangalore, India. We have increased the proportion of our product development work being performed by contractors in India in order to take advantage of cost efficiencies associated with India’s lower wage scale. However, we may not achieve the cost savings and other benefits we anticipate from this program and we may not be able to find sufficient numbers of developers with the necessary skill sets in India to meet our needs. We have a heightened risk exposure to changes in the economic, security, and political conditions of India. Economic and political instability, military actions, and other unforeseen occurrences in India could impair our ability to develop and introduce new software applications and functionality in a timely manner, which could put our products at a competitive disadvantage whereby we lose existing customers and/or fail to attract new customers. Our target markets are evolving and characterized by rapid technological change, with which we may not be able to keep pace. The markets for our products and services are evolving and characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, evolving industry standards, and frequent new product and service announcements. The introduction of products employing new technologies and emerging industry standards could render our existing products or services obsolete or unmarketable. If we are unable to respond to these developments successfully or do not respond in a cost-effective way, our business, financial condition, and operating results will suffer. To be successful, we must continually improve and enhance the responsiveness, services, and features of our software products and introduce and deliver new product and service offerings and new releases of existing products. We may fail to improve or enhance our software products or fail to introduce and deliver new releases or new offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis or at all. If we experience delays in the future with respect to our software products, or if our improvements, enhancements, offerings, or releases to these products do not achieve market acceptance, we could experience a delay or loss of revenues and customer dissatisfaction. Our success will also depend in part on our ability to acquire or license third-party technologies that are useful in our business, which we may not be able to do. We may ultimately be unable to compete in the markets for the products and services we offer. The markets for our software products and services are intensely competitive, which may result in low or negative profit margins and difficulty in achieving market share, either of which could seriously harm our business. We expect the intensity of competition to increase. Our software products and services face competition from software companies whose products or services compete with a particular aspect of the solution we provide, as well as several major enterprise software developers and consulting firms. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, and greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we do, and may have well-established relationships with our existing and prospective customers. This may place us at a disadvantage in responding to our competitors’ pricing strategies, technological advances, advertising campaigns, strategic partnerships, and other initiatives. Our competitors may also develop products or services that are superior to or have greater market acceptance than ours. If we are unable to compete successfully against our competitors, our business, financial condition, and operating results would be negatively impacted. If we do not develop the “Verticalnet” brand in the supply management solution industry, our revenues might not increase. We must establish and continuously strengthen the awareness of the “Verticalnet” brand in the supply management solution industry. If our brand awareness as a maker of supply management solution software does not develop, or if developed, is not sustained as a respected brand, it could decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to potential customers, which could result in decreased revenues. We may not be able to protect our proprietary rights and may infringe the proprietary rights of others. Proprietary rights are important to our success and to our competitive position. We may be unable to register, maintain, and protect our proprietary rights adequately. Although we file copyright registrations for the source code underlying our software, enforcement of our rights might be too difficult and costly for us to pursue effectively. Effective patent, copyright, and trade secret protection of our software may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. In addition, third parties may claim that our current or potential future products infringe their intellectual property rights. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product and service delivery delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could seriously harm our business. Several lawsuits have been brought against us and the outcome of these lawsuits is uncertain. Several lawsuits have been brought against us and the underwriters of our stock in our initial public offering. These lawsuits allege, among other things, that the underwriters engaged in sales practices that had the effect of inflating our stock price, and that our prospectus for that offering was materially misleading because it did not disclose these sales practices. We intend to vigorously defend 9 Table of Contents ourselves against these lawsuits; however, no assurance can be given as to the outcome of these lawsuits. In addition, other lawsuits may be brought against us. We may be required to defend such lawsuits, thus incurring expenses which we may not be able to bear, or which we may not be successful in defending. Shares eligible for future sale by our current or future shareholders may cause our stock price to decline. If our shareholders, option holders, warrant holders, or holders of the convertible notes sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued in completed or future acquisitions, upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, or upon conversion of the convertible notes, then the market price of our common stock could fall. We also have filed registration statements to register shares of common stock under our equity compensation and employee stock purchase plans. Shares issued pursuant to existing or future shelf registration statements, upon exercise of stock options and warrants, upon conversion of the convertible notes, and in connection with our equity compensation and employee stock purchase plans will be eligible for resale in the public market without restriction. Anti-takeover provisions and our right to issue preferred stock could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. Verticalnet is a Pennsylvania corporation. Anti-takeover provisions of Pennsylvania law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation provide that our Board of Directors may issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. In addition, our bylaws provide for a classified board, with each board member serving a staggered three-year term. The issuance of preferred stock and the existence of a classified board could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Our common stock price is likely to remain highly volatile. The market for stocks of technology companies has been highly volatile since our initial public offering in 1999. Throughout this period, the market price of our common stock has reached extreme highs and lows, and our daily trading volume has been, and will likely continue to be, highly volatile. Investors may not be able to resell their shares of our common stock following periods of price or trading volume volatility because of the market’s adverse reaction to such volatility. Factors that could cause volatility in our stock price and trading volume, in some cases regardless of our operating performance, include, among other things: Ÿ general economic conditions, including suppressed demand for technology products and services; Ÿ actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; Ÿ announcements of technological innovations; Ÿ new products or services; Ÿ changes in the market valuations of other software or technology companies; Ÿ failure to meet analysts’ or investors’ expectations; Ÿ announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or joint ventures; Ÿ our cash position and cash commitments; Ÿ use of our common stock to pay the monthly principle and interest on our senior convertible promissory notes; Ÿ our prospects for software sales and new customers; and Ÿ additions or departures of key personnel. 10 Table of Contents Acquisitions may disrupt or otherwise have a negative impact on our business. We have made, and plan to continue to make, investments in and acquisitions of complementary companies, technologies, and assets. Future and past acquisitions are subject to the following risks: Ÿ acquisitions may cause a disruption in our ongoing business, distract our management and other resources, and make it difficult to maintain our standards, controls, and procedures; Ÿ we may acquire companies in markets in which we have little experience; Ÿ we may not be able to successfully integrate the services, products, and personnel of any acquisition into our operations; Ÿ we may be required to incur debt or issue equity securities, which may be dilutive to existing shareholders, to pay for the acquisitions; Ÿ we may be exposed to unknown or undisclosed liabilities; and Ÿ our acquisitions may not result in any return on our investment and we may lose our entire investment. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party Web hosting facilities could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We provide some of our services through computer hardware that is currently located in a third-party web hosting facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania operated by SunGard, Inc. We do not control the operation of this facility, and it may be subject to damage or interruption from floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, and similar events. It may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, and similar misconduct. Despite precautions taken at the facility, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision to close a facility without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems at a facility could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, the failure by a facility to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. While we are not aware of any such interruptions, if an actual or perceived interruption of our applications occurred or if our applications become unstable or unavailable, the perception by existing or potential customers of our applications could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers. In addition, we may be subject to service level penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s data, our on-demand applications may be perceived as not being secure and customers may curtail or stop using our service. Our on-demand supply management model involves the storage, analysis, and transmission of customers’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or corruption of this information, litigation, and possible liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party obtains access to one or more of our customers’ data, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer, and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. While we are not aware of any such breach, if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the perception by existing or potential customers of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers. If our software or the third-party software we use to support and enable our applications is subject to intrusion or corruption by third parties, our applications could become unstable or unavailable to our customers. We use our own as well as third-party software to support or enable our applications and which may be subject to intrusion or corruption by third parties, which may render our on-demand applications unstable or unavailable to our customers. While we are not aware of any such intrusion, if an actual or perceived intrusion or corruption of our software or third-party software which we use to support or enable our applications occurs, and our applications become unstable or unavailable, the perception by existing or potential customers of our applications could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers. 11 Table of Contents If our on-demand application model is not widely accepted, our operating results will be harmed. We expect to derive an increasing portion of our software revenues from subscriptions to our on-demand applications. As a result, widespread acceptance of our on-demand supply management applications is critical to our future success. Factors that may affect market acceptance of our on-demand applications include: Ÿ reluctance by enterprises to migrate to an on-demand application model; Ÿ the price and performance of our on-demand applications; Ÿ the level of customization we can offer; Ÿ the availability, performance, and price of competing products and services; and Ÿ potential reluctance by enterprises to trust third parties to store and manage their internal data. Many of these factors are beyond our control. The inability of our on-demand applications model to achieve widespread market acceptance would harm our business. Because we will recognize revenue from our on-demand applications over the term of the agreement, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We will recognize revenue from customers with hosted term-based licenses over the term of their agreements, which are typically 12 to 24 months, although terms can range from one to 36 months. As a result, a portion of the revenue we report in each quarter will be from agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed agreements in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and may negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect these reduced revenues. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our on-demand application model will also make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable agreement term. We do not have an adequate history with our on-demand application model to predict the rate of customer renewals and the impact these renewals will have on our revenue or operating results. Our customers have no obligation to renew their agreements for our service after the expiration of their initial contract period and some customers have elected not to do so. In addition, our customers may decide not to renew unless we offer lower prices or agree to reduce the number of users. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer renewals, so we may not be able to accurately predict customer renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their dissatisfaction with our applications or the customers’ ability to continue their operations and spending levels. If our customers do not renew their agreements for our on-demand supply management applications, our revenue may decline and our business may suffer. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to sell additional features or functions of our applications, additional applications, or additional services to our current customers. This may require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts that are targeted at our customers’ senior management. If these efforts are not successful, our business may suffer. A failure to adequately expand our direct sales force may impede our growth. We expect to be substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new customers, particularly large enterprise customers, and to manage our customer base. We believe that there is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the advanced sales skills and technical knowledge we need. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training, and retaining sufficient direct sales personnel. New hires require significant training and may, in some cases, take more than a year before they achieve full productivity. Our recent or future hires may not become as productive as we would like, and we may be unable to hire sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. If we are unable to hire and develop sufficient numbers of productive sales personnel, sales of our products and services may suffer. We have also reduced our sales force as part of our cost containment and cost reduction initiatives. Our failure to field an effective sales organization could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance and financial condition. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined resulting in an impact on our results of 12 Table of Contents operations. In June 2006, based on our market capitalization as well as other business indicators (including our decreasing relationship with one of our largest customers), we concluded that we were required to assess whether any portion of our recorded goodwill balance or amortizable intangible assets were impaired. We concluded that goodwill was impaired in the amount of $9.9 million. If our market value continues to decline, we may get to a point where an additional impairment charge would be necessary. At that time, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which the amount of the impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar, in relation to the currencies of foreign countries where we transact business, could harm our operating performance and financial condition. International operations represent an increasing portion of our revenues. We expect to continue to commit significant resources to our international sales and marketing activities. For international sales and expenditures denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations, particularly as a result of the decline in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to other foreign currencies. Although such international revenues are increasing, we have not to date hedged our risks associated with foreign currency transactions in order to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. In the event we do begin hedging activities, there is no guarantee our hedging strategy will be successful and that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion or repayment of our convertible notes and exercise of warrants will dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may issue shares of common stock (i) upon conversion of some or all of our convertible notes, (ii) in satisfaction of our principal and interest payment obligations under the convertible notes, in lieu of cash payments, and (iii) upon exercise of warrants. Any of these issuances will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of this common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices of the common stock. In addition, the existence of these convertible notes and warrants may encourage short selling by market participants. Our convertible notes and discount note are secured by substantially all of our assets. The holders of convertible notes and discount note have a security interest in and a lien on substantially all of our assets, including our existing and future accounts receivable, cash, general intangibles (including intellectual property) and equipment. As a result of this security interest and lien, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the convertible notes or the discount note, the holders of the convertible notes or the discount note would be entitled to foreclose on and liquidate substantially all of our assets. Under those circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds to service our day-to-day operational needs. Any foreclosure by the holders of the convertible notes or the discount note would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 13 Table of Contents 