ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. As with any business, we face a number of risks. If any of the following risks occur, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition would likely suffer. We have grouped these risk factors into several categories, as follows: 1. General Risks Related to Our Business 2. Risks Related to Our Portfolio Investing Business 3. Risks Related to Our Fund Management Business 4. Risks Related to Our Mortgage Banking Business 5. Risks Related to Application of Tax Laws 6. Risks Related to Investing in Our Company 12 1. GENERAL RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS THERE ARE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROPERTIES UNDERLYING OUR FINANCING PRODUCTS AND INVESTMENTS THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS Through our subsidiaries, we derive a large portion of our earnings by: o investing in mortgage revenue bonds; o sponsoring funds that provide equity to LIHTC properties; o sponsoring funds that originate or acquire direct mortgage loans and high yield CMBS or joint venture equity; and o originating and servicing mortgages. With respect to affordable housing properties, in many cases we are both the sponsor of the fund and the holder of the debt secured by the property which is indirectly owned by the fund. In addition, we also support credit on behalf of developers, provide specified investment returns to the investors in certain equity funds we sponsor and issue other credit support associated with the performance of a property. Our success depends in large part on the performance of the properties underlying our financing and investing products and, therefore, subjects us to various types and degrees of risk, including the following: o the property securing our debt might not generate sufficient income to meet its operating expenses and payments on its related debt; o local, regional or national economic conditions may limit the amount of rent that can be charged for rental units at the properties and may result in a reduction in rent payments or the timeliness of rent payments or a reduction in occupancy levels; o federal LIHTCs and local, state and federal housing subsidy or similar programs which apply to many of the properties impose rent limitations that could adversely affect the ability to increase rents to generate the funds necessary to maintain the properties in proper condition, which is particularly important during periods of rapid inflation or declining market value of such properties; o if a bond or other investment defaults, the value of the property securing such investment (plus, for properties that have availed themselves of the federal LIHTC, the remaining value of such LIHTC) may be less than the unamortized principal amount of the investment; o there are certain types of losses (generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, terrorism, wars and toxic mold or other environmental conditions) which are either uninsurable or not economically insurable; o under various laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate is liable for damages caused by or the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances released on, above, under or in such real estate. These laws often impose liability whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. As a result, the entities we sponsor which own real estate, and the owners of the real estate securing our investments, could be required to pay for such damages or removal or remediation costs; and o a guarantor may be unable to fulfill its obligations. All of these conditions and events may increase the possibility that, among other things: o a property owner may be unable to meet its obligations to us as holder of its debt; o a property owner may default on a mortgage for which we have a loss-sharing obligation; o a fund may not be able to pay our fees; o a fund may not generate the return that we have committed to provide and we may be called upon to satisfy the promised return; o our promotes from fund management may be subject to recapture if the funds do not reach overall investment hurdles; and o we could lose our invested capital and/or anticipated future revenue. This could decrease the fair value of our investments, lower the fair value of assets we pledge as collateral, impair our ability to generate new business and affect our net income and cash flows. 13 WE MAY SUFFER ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES FROM CHANGING INTEREST RATES Because a large portion of the debt we owe is variable rate, an increase in interest rates could negatively affect our net income and cash flows. Additionally, increasing interest rates may: o reduce the fair value of our investments or the investments of funds we manage, including our fixed-rate mortgage revenue bonds and residual interests in securitization transactions; o decrease the amount we could realize on the sale or financing of those investments; o reduce the income and promotes from funds that we manage; o result in a reduction in the number of properties which are economically feasible to finance; o reduce the demand for financing, which could limit our ability to invest in mortgage revenue bonds or to structure transactions, thereby reducing fees and interest we receive; o increase our borrowing costs; o restrict our access to capital; o cause investors to find alternative investments that are more attractive than the equity funds we sponsor; and o adversely affect the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders. Since a significant portion of our investments are residual interests in mortgage revenue bonds or other securities whose cash flow is first used to pay senior securities with short-term floating interest rates, any increase in short-term interest rates will increase the amount of interest paid on the senior securities and reduce the net cash flow in our Portfolio Investing business. Conversely, a decrease in interest rates may lead to the refinancing of some of the debt we own if lockout periods have ended. We may not be able to reinvest the proceeds of any such refinancing at the same interest rates as the debt refinanced. Additionally, falling interest rates may prompt historical renters to become homebuyers, in turn potentially reducing the demand for multifamily rental housing. Further, a portion of our net income is generated by interest income we earn on mortgage escrow deposits. If interest rates were to decrease, our net income in the Mortgage Banking segment would decrease as well. Furthermore, strategies we may follow to address these risks carry risks of their own, including, but not limited to: o the potential inability to refinance variable-rate debt at terms that we find acceptable; o alternate sources of fixed rate or lower cost financing may not be available to us; o the risk that interest rate swap counterparties may default on their obligations to us; o we may not be able to match the duration or reset periods of assets and liabilities that we want to alleviate the effect of changing rates; and o other efforts to manage risks related to changes in interest rates may not be successful. If a change in interest rates causes the consequences described above, or otherwise negatively affects us, the result could adversely affect our ability to generate net income or cash flows to make distributions and other payments in respect of our shares. THE INABILITY TO MAINTAIN OUR RECURRING FEE ARRANGEMENTS AND TO GENERATE NEW TRANSACTION FEES COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS Two revenue sources in our Fund Management segment are the transaction fees generated by our sponsorship of new investment programs and recurring fees payable by existing and future programs. Transaction fees are generally "up-front" fees that are generated: o by the sponsorship of new investment programs; and o upon investment of the capital raised in an investment program. Recurring fees are generated by the ongoing operation of investment programs we sponsor, some of which have finite lives. The termination of one or more of these recurring fee arrangements, or the inability to sponsor new programs which will generate new recurring and transaction fees, would reduce net income and cash flows. There can be no assurance that existing recurring fee arrangements will not be reduced or terminated or that we will be able to realize revenues from new investment programs. 14 Likewise, the two principal revenue streams in our Mortgage Banking business are fees we earn for originating loans and ongoing fees we earn for servicing loans. A decline in origination volume or the loss or termination of a servicing arrangement could adversely affect our results of operations and reduce net income and cash flows. There can be no assurance that existing recurring fee arrangements will not be reduced or terminated or that we will be able to realize revenues from new business. WE RELY UPON RELATIONSHIPS WITH KEY INVESTORS AND DEVELOPERS WHICH MAY NOT CONTINUE We rely upon relationships with key investors and developers. If these relationships do not continue, or if we are unable to form new relationships, our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected. In 2006, five key investors provided approximately 76.6% of the equity capital raised by tax credit syndication programs we sponsored, with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac together providing approximately 32.4% of the equity capital. In addition, ten key developers provided approximately 45.5% of the LIHTC properties for which we arranged equity financing in 2006. Further, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were the purchasers of 58.5% of the loans originated by our Mortgage Banking business in 2006, while AMAC was the purchaser of 34.7% of the loans it originated. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do business with these key investors and developers or that new relationships will be formed. Developers may also experience financial difficulties that would, in turn, reduce the amount of business we transact with them. If developers were to fail, it could also lead to some of the adverse consequences listed under the "THERE ARE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROPERTIES UNDERLYING OUR FINANCING PRODUCTS AND INVESTMENTS THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS" section above. We also rely upon relationships with providers of products in which we invest (e.g. CMBS) and investors who invest in the funds which we manage. If our relationships with CMBS issuers, Wall Street firms, banks and insurance companies who create and sell high yield debt products were to terminate, we might not be able to obtain product for our own balance sheet or funds which we manage. By reason of their regulated status, certain of our investors have regulatory incentives to invest in our sponsored investment programs in addition to the economic return from such investments. A change in such regulations could result in determinations by such investors to seek other investment opportunities. REVENUES FROM OUR FEE-GENERATING ACTIVITIES AND OTHER INCOME FROM CERTAIN OF OUR FINANCING AND INVESTING PRODUCTS ARE LESS PREDICTABLE THAN THOSE FROM OUR MORTGAGE REVENUE BOND INVESTMENTS AND COULD RESULT IN A DECREASE IN NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS, FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR SHARE PRICE AND A REDUCTION IN THE PORTION OF OUR INCOME THAT IS TAX-EXEMPT In 2006, approximately 21.7% of the revenue we recognized in our statement of income was derived from fee-generating service activities through our taxable subsidiaries. Fee-generating businesses are inherently less predictable than the ownership of mortgage revenue bonds, and there can be no assurance that the fee-generating activities will be profitable. Additionally, in 2006, 32.0% of our income before income taxes was generated by equity income we earned from funds we sponsor through ARCap. A significant portion of equity income we expect to generate from these funds is based on "promotes" that we earn, and the occurrence of events that would trigger such earnings is not in our control. In addition, the net income and cash flows generated by our Fund Management business has historically fluctuated between quarters due to the typical variability in the timing of fund sponsorships and investments made by those funds as well as promotes we earn from certain of those investments. These fluctuations could be perceived negatively and, therefore, adversely affect our share price. Refer to Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for quarterly financial information. In addition, the portion of our distributions that is excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes could decrease based on the size of our future taxable business. Our taxable subsidiaries do not currently distribute dividend income to the parent trust but rather reinvest it in their businesses. If we invest in a larger percentage of taxable investments, or if our taxable subsidiaries were to distribute dividend income to the parent trust, the result would likely be that the taxable portion of our overall income would increase. Also, the CMBS fund sponsorship portion of our Fund Management business generates income, most of which is taxable, and that income is passed through to the parent trust. As that business continues to grow, the percentage of our net income distributed to shareholders that is federally tax-exempt will likely decrease. 15 HEIGHTENED COMPETITION MAY ERODE OUR EARNINGS We are subject to competition in all of our business lines, as described in Item 1. - BUSINESS - COMPETITION. As competition increases, we may experience compression in the level of profits we earn on our various investments and financing products due to, among other things: o Reductions in the rate of interest we earn on mortgage revenue bonds; o Reductions in the rates of origination and servicing fees for mortgages; o Reductions in the rate of fees we earn from originating and managing funds; and o Lower levels of discounts at which high-yield investments may be purchased. As we often borrow funds to make investments, rising interest rates may compound this issue. Absent cost reductions, such compression may not permit us to enjoy the margins we have achieved historically, thereby lowering our revenues and net income. THE ATTRACTIVENESS OF REAL ESTATE AS AN INVESTMENT MAY DECLINE Real estate underlies all of our business lines, whether by direct investment or by virtue of sponsoring funds that are associated with real estate. While often viewed as an attractive investment sector, there is no guarantee that the investors in the funds we sponsor will continue to allocate capital to investments associated with real estate. Should there be a general decline in capital invested in the sector, our ability to sponsor funds would be diminished and the income we earn from these activities would decline. 2. RISKS RELATED TO OUR PORTFOLIO INVESTING BUSINESS WE HAVE NO RECOURSE AGAINST STATE OR LOCAL GOVERNMENTS OR PROPERTY OWNERS UPON DEFAULT OF OUR MORTGAGE REVENUE BONDS OR UPON THE BANKRUPTCY OF AN OWNER OF PROPERTIES SECURING OUR MORTGAGE REVENUE BONDS Although state or local governments or their agencies or authorities issue the mortgage revenue bonds we purchase, the mortgage revenue bonds are not general obligations of any state or local government. No government, as an issuer of these bonds, is liable to make payments on the mortgage revenue bonds, nor is the taxing power of any government pledged for the payment of principal or interest on the mortgage revenue bonds. An assignment by the issuing government agency or authority of the mortgage loan in favor of a bond trustee on behalf of us, or in some cases, an assignment directly to the bondholder, secures each mortgage revenue bond we own. The mortgage loan is also secured by an assignment of rents. Following the time that the properties securing the mortgage loans are placed into service and achieve stabilized occupancy, the underlying mortgage loans are non-recourse to the property owner, other than customary recourse carve-outs for bad acts, such as fraud and breach of environmental representations and covenants. Accordingly, the revenue derived from the operation of the properties securing the mortgage revenue bonds that we own and amounts derived from the sale, refinancing or other disposition of the properties are the sole sources of funds for payment of principal and interest on the mortgage revenue bonds. Our revenue may be adversely affected by the bankruptcy of an owner of properties securing the mortgage revenue bonds that we directly or indirectly own. An owner of properties under bankruptcy protection may be able forcibly to restructure its debt service payments and stop making debt service payments to us, temporarily or otherwise. Our rights in this event would be defined by applicable law. WE ARE SUBJECT TO CONSTRUCTION COMPLETION AND REHABILITATION RISKS THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS As of December 31, 2006, mortgage revenue bonds with an aggregate fair value of approximately $277.5 million were secured by affordable multifamily housing properties which are still in various stages of construction and mortgage revenue bonds with an aggregate fair value of approximately $488.6 million were secured by affordable multifamily housing properties which are undergoing substantial rehabilitation. Construction and/or substantial rehabilitation of such properties generally lasts approximately 12 to 24 months. The principal risk associated with this type of lending is the risk of non-completion of construction or rehabilitation which may arise as a result of: o underestimated construction or rehabilitation costs; o delays; o failure to obtain governmental approvals; and 16 o adverse weather and other unpredictable contingencies beyond the control of the developer. If construction and/or rehabilitation of a property is not timely completed as required in the mortgage loan documents, we, as the holder of the mortgage revenue bonds secured by such mortgage, may incur certain costs and be required to invest additional capital in order to preserve our investment. THE PROPERTIES SECURING CERTAIN OF OUR MORTGAGE REVENUE BONDS, WHICH ARE CURRENTLY IN CONSTRUCTION, LEASE-UP OR REHABILITATION STAGES, MAY EXPERIENCE FINANCIAL DISTRESS IF THEY DO NOT MEET OCCUPANCY AND DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE LEVELS SUFFICIENT TO STABILIZE SUCH PROPERTIES, NEGATIVELY AFFECTING OUR ASSETS AND EARNINGS As of December 31, 2006, mortgage revenue bonds in our portfolio with a fair value of approximately $1.6 billion were secured by mortgages on properties in construction, lease-up or rehabilitation stages. The lease-up of these underlying properties may not be completed on schedule or at anticipated rent levels, resulting in a greater risk that they may go into default than bonds secured by mortgages on properties that are fully leased-up. Should a bond go into default, we may not receive interest income, which would reduce our net income and cash flows. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the underlying property will achieve expected occupancy or debt service coverage levels. CERTAIN OF OUR MORTGAGE REVENUE BONDS WE AND OUR SUBSIDIARIES HOLD HAVE BEEN PLEDGED A significant portion of our mortgage revenue bond portfolio has been pledged as collateral in connection with our securitizations and credit intermediation activities and we may not have full access to them until we exit the related programs. The fair value of the pledged bonds varies from time to time. As of December 31, 2006, the fair value of all pledged bonds was approximately $2.3 billion. RISK ASSOCIATED WITH SECURITIZATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS Through securitizations, we seek to enhance our overall return on our investments and to generate proceeds that, along with operating cash flows and equity offering proceeds, facilitate the acquisition of additional investments. In our variable rate securitizations, a bank or another type of financial institution provides liquidity to the purchasers of senior interests in our mortgage revenue bonds. They also provide certain credit intermediation with respect to the underlying revenue bond, which enables the senior interests to be sold to investors seeking investments with credit ratings of at least "A" short term and "AA" long term. The liquidity facilities are generally for one-year terms and are renewable annually. If the credit strength of either the liquidity or credit intermediation providers deteriorates, we anticipate that the return on the residual interests would decrease, negatively affecting our net income and subsequent executions. In addition, if we are unable to renew the liquidity or credit intermediation facilities, we would be forced to find alternative (possibly more expensive) facilities, to repurchase the underlying bonds or to liquidate the underlying bonds and our investment in the residual interests. If we were forced to liquidate an investment, we would recognize gains or losses on the liquidation, which might be significant depending on market conditions. As of December 31, 2006: o Merrill Lynch provided liquidity for senior interests with an aggregate amount of $403.4 million in the P-FLOATs/RITES program. There is a risk that the program may not be renewed at the end of its current term; o Goldman Sachs provided liquidity for senior interests with an aggregate amount of $944.8 million in the Goldman Sachs Floats/Residuals program. There is a risk that the program may not be renewed at the end of its current term; and o Primary credit intermediation on the P-FLOATs/RITES and Floaters/Residuals programs is generally provided by Centerbrook, with IXIS serving as the secondary credit intermediator. In certain circumstances Merrill Lynch or IXIS are the primary or secondary credit intermediator. OTHER PARTIES HAVE THE FIRST RIGHT TO CASH FLOW FROM OUR SECURITIZED REVENUE BOND INVESTMENTS Because of our utilization of securitizations, our interests in a significant portion of our mortgage revenue bond investments are subordinated or may be junior in right of payment to other senior securities. There are risks in owning "junior residual interests" that could adversely affect our net income and cash flows, including: 17 o the risk that borrowers may not be able to make payments, resulting in us, as the holder of the junior residual interests, receiving principal and interest payments that are less than expected or no payment at all; o the risk that short-term interest rates may rise significantly, increasing the amounts payable to the holders of the floating-rate senior interests created through our securitizations and reducing the amounts payable to us as holder of the junior residual interests; and o the risk that the holders of the senior mortgage revenue bonds or senior interests may control the ability to enforce remedies, limiting our ability to take actions that might protect our interests. OUR MORTGAGE REVENUE BONDS MAY BE CONSIDERED USURIOUS State usury laws establish restrictions, in certain circumstances, on the maximum rate of interest that may be charged by a lender and impose penalties on parties making usurious loans, including monetary penalties, forfeiture of interest and unenforceability of the debt. There is a risk that our mortgage revenue bonds could be found to be usurious as a result of uncertainties in determining the maximum legal rate of interest in certain jurisdictions, especially with respect to mortgage revenue bonds that bear participating or otherwise contingent interest. Therefore, the amount of interest to be charged and the return on our mortgage revenue bonds would be limited by state usury laws and we may have to agree to defer or reduce the amount of interest that can be paid in any particular year (potentially to zero). Some states may prohibit the compounding of interest, in which case we may have to agree to forego the compounding feature of our mortgage revenue bonds originated in those states. OUR INVESTMENTS IN MORTGAGE REVENUE BONDS LACK LIQUIDITY Our investments in mortgage revenue bonds lack a regular trading market. There is no limitation in our trust agreement or otherwise as to the percentage of our investments that may be illiquid and we expect to continue to invest in assets, substantially all of which will be illiquid securities. If a situation arises where we require additional cash, we could be forced to liquidate some or all of our investments on unfavorable terms (if any sale is possible) that could substantially reduce the amount of distributions available and payments made in respect of our shares. MORTGAGE REVENUE BONDS MAY GO INTO DEFAULT FROM TIME TO TIME AND NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS Properties underlying our mortgage revenue bonds may experience financial difficulties from time to time, which could cause certain of our mortgage revenue bonds to go into default. Were that to occur, we might take remedial action such as, among other things, entering into a work-out or forbearance agreement with the owner of the property or exercising our rights with respect to the collateral securing such mortgage revenue bond, including the commencement of mortgage foreclosure proceedings. In addition, in the event that we were to successfully foreclose the mortgage on the underlying property, it is likely that, during the period that we or an affiliate owned both the property and the defaulted bond, we, as holder of the defaulted bond, would be deemed to be a related party to a "substantial user" of the property underlying such bond. As a result, during such period, the interest we receive on the bond would be taxable. See "SUBSTANTIAL USER" LIMITATION within "RISKS ASSOCIATED TO APPLICATION OF TAX LAWS" below. 3. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FUND MANAGEMENT BUSINESS THERE ARE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CREDIT INTERMEDIATION AND COMMITMENTS TO PROVIDE SPECIFIED RATES OF RETURN THAT EXPOSE US TO LOSSES Through our taxable subsidiaries, we provide credit intermediation to third parties for a fee. If such third parties default on their obligations for which we provided credit intermediation, our loss would likely be in an amount far in excess of the fee paid to us for providing the service. We also provide specified internal rates of return to investors in partnerships designed to pass through tax benefits, including LIHTCs, to investors. In connection with such transactions we might be required to advance funds to ensure that the investors do not lose their expected tax benefits and, if the internal rate of return to investors falls below the specified level, we would be required to make a payment so that the specified rate of return will be achieved. Our maximum potential liability pursuant to those transactions is detailed in MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS and Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. 18 THERE IS A RISK OF ELIMINATION OF, OR CHANGES TO, GOVERNMENTAL PROGRAMS THAT COULD LIMIT OUR PRODUCT OFFERINGS A significant portion of our Fund Management revenues is derived from the syndication of partnership interests in partnerships that invest in properties eligible for LIHTCs which are a provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). Section 42 of the Code authorizes federal LIHTCs for affordable multifamily rental housing. Under this program, a project either receives an allocation of federal LIHTCs from an agency designated by the government of the state in which the project is located or the project is entitled to the LIHTCs by reason of its being financed by volume cap mortgage revenue bonds. There are two types of credits: o 4% credits - for new buildings and existing buildings financed with mortgage revenue bonds that receive an allocation of the volume cap, or for new and existing buildings financed with below-market federal financing that receive an allocation of federal LIHTCs from state agencies; and o 9% credits - for new buildings that receive an allocation of federal LIHTCs from state agencies. The credits are taken over a period of 10 years, which can span over an 11-year operating period. The credit amount is based on the qualified basis of each building, which is based upon the adjusted basis of the building multiplied by the percentage of units in the building leased to low-income tenants. In order to qualify for the federal LIHTC, the property must comply with either of the 20/50 or 40/60 tests that apply to tax-exempt bonds. However, in addition, the amount of rent that may be charged to qualifying low-income tenants cannot exceed 30% of the "imputed income" for each unit, i.e., 30% of the imputed income of a family earning 50% or 60% of area median income, as adjusted for family size. Failure to comply continuously with these requirements throughout the 15 year recapture period could result in a recapture of the federal LIHTCs. In addition, if the rents from the property are not sufficient to pay debt service on the mortgage revenue bonds or other financing secured by the property and a default ensues, the initial borrower could lose ownership of the project as the result of foreclosure of the mortgage. In such event, the initial equity investors would no longer be entitled to claim the federal LIHTCs, but the foreclosing lender could claim the remaining LIHTCs provided the project continues to be operated in accordance with the requirements of Section 42. As a result, there is a strong incentive for the federal LIHTC investor to ensure that the development is current on debt service payments by making additional capital contributions or otherwise. With respect to most of the properties, substantially all the multifamily units are rented to individuals or families earning no greater than 60% of area median income and, thus, substantially all of the qualified basis may be used to determine the amount of the federal LIHTC. This maximizes the amount of equity raised from the purchasers of the federal LIHTCs for each development and provides for the maximum amount of rent that can be obtained from tenants where there is currently strong occupancy demand. Investors in CharterMac Capital LIHTC sponsored funds are usually Fortune 500 corporations that have projected long-term positive tax positions. These investors generally become limited partners in the CharterMac Capital sponsored fund which, in turn, invests as a limited partner in the developer/owner of the affordable housing property. The CharterMac Capital sponsored fund contributes to the developer/owner the negotiated equity paid over time. In the case of properties utilizing 4% credits, this contribution will usually provide between 25% and 35% of the costs of the development. For properties utilizing 9% credits, this contribution will usually provide between 45% and 55% of the cost of the development. Although LIHTCs are a part of the Code, Congress could repeal or modify this legislation at any time or modify the tax laws so that the value of LIHTC benefits is reduced. If such legislation is repealed or adversely modified, we would no longer be able to pursue this portion of our business strategy. CERTAIN AGREEMENTS PURSUANT TO WHICH WE EARN FEES HAVE FINITE TERMS AND MAY NOT BE RENEWED WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS We receive fees pursuant to an advisory agreement with AMAC, an affiliated company. This advisory agreement is subject to annual renewal and approval by the independent trustees of AMAC and there is no guarantee that the agreement will be renewed. 19 We also receive fees from investment funds we sponsor. These funds generally do not require or authorize their investors to approve the funds' management arrangements with us; instead, we will generally acquire controlling interests in the entities which control these funds. However, these interests are subject to the fiduciary duty of the controlling entity to the investors in those programs, which may affect our ability to continue to collect fees from those funds. Furthermore, the organizational documents of certain of these funds allow for the investors, at their option, to remove the entity controlled by us as general partner or managing member without cause. Although the funds will generally be required to pay fair market value if they exercise this right, our right to receive future fees would terminate and there can be no assurance that the payment will fully compensate us for this loss. Finally, many of these funds typically have finite periods in which they are scheduled to exist, after which they are liquidated. The termination of a fund will result in a termination of the fees we receive from it. OUR ROLE AS A SPONSOR OF INVESTMENT FUNDS AND CO-DEVELOPER OF LIHTC PROPERTIES EXPOSES US TO RISKS OF LOSS In connection with the sponsorship of investment funds and joint venture activities for co-development of LIHTC properties, we act as a fiduciary to the investors in our syndication programs and are often also required to provide performance guarantees. We advance funds to acquire interests in property-owning partnerships for inclusion in investment programs and, at any point in time, the amount of funds advanced can be material. Recovery of these amounts is subject to our ability to attract investors to new investment funds or, if investors are not found, the sale of the partnership interests in the underlying properties. We could also be liable to investors in investment programs and third parties as a result of serving as general partner or special limited partner in various investment funds. In addition, even when we are not required to do so, we may advance funds to allow investment funds to meet their expenses and/or generate the expected tax benefits to investors. FUNDS MAY NOT GENERATE SUFFICIENT CASH TO PAY FEES DUE TO US, WHICH MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS Much of the revenue in our Fund Management business is earned from fees that upper-tier funds we sponsor pay to our subsidiaries for services rendered. These funds are dependent upon the cash flows of lower-tier partnerships in which they invest to generate their own cash flows that are used to pay such fees for services, such as asset management and advisory services. As the lower-tier partnerships are susceptible to numerous operational risks (see "THERE ARE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROPERTIES UNDERLYING OUR FINANCING PRODUCTS AND INVESTMENTS THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS" above), the upper-tier funds may not collect sufficient cash to pay the fees they owe to us. If we do not receive these fees, the negative impact on our cash flows, and our net income if we determine the fees are not collectible, could negatively impact our business. 4. RISKS RELATED TO OUR MORTGAGE BANKING BUSINESS THERE ARE RISKS OF LOSS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR MORTGAGE ORIGINATIONS WHICH MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS In our DUS program, we originate loans through one of our subsidiaries which are thereafter purchased or credit enhanced by Fannie Mae. For most of these loans, we retain a first loss position with respect to loans that we originate and sell under this program. For these loss sharing loans, we assume responsibility for a portion of any loss that may result from borrower defaults, based on the Fannie Mae loss sharing formulas, and risk Levels I, II, or III. Of the 865 loss sharing loans in this program as of December 31, 2006, all but one were Level I loans. For such loans, if a default occurs, we are responsible for the first 5% of the unpaid principal balance and a portion of any additional losses to a maximum of 20% of the original principal balance; any remaining loss is borne by Fannie Mae. In Level II and Level III loans we carry a higher loss sharing percentage. Under the terms of our master loss sharing agreement with Fannie Mae, we are responsible for funding 100% of mortgagor delinquency (principal and interest) and servicing (taxes, insurance and foreclosure costs) advances until the amounts advanced exceed 5% of the unpaid principal balance at the date of default. Thereafter, for Level I loans, we may request interim loss sharing adjustments which allow us to fund 25% of such advances until final settlement under the master loss sharing agreement. No interim sharing adjustments are available for Level II and Level III loans. We also participate in loss sharing transactions under Freddie Mac's DUI program whereby we originate loans that are purchased by Freddie Mac. 20 Under the terms of our master agreement with Freddie Mac, we are obligated to reimburse Freddie Mac for a portion of any loss that may result from borrower defaults on DUI transactions. For such loans, if a default occurs, our share of the loss will be the first 5% of the unpaid principal balance and 25% of the next 20% of the remaining unpaid principal balance to a maximum of 10% of the unpaid principal balance. The loss on a defaulted loan is calculated as the unpaid principal amount due, unpaid interest due and default resolutions costs (taxes, insurance, operation and foreclosure costs) less recoveries. Our maximum "first loss" exposure under the DUS and DUI programs is detailed in MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS and Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. CHANGES IN EXISTING GOVERNMENT SPONSORED AND FEDERAL MORTGAGE PROGRAMS COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR MORTGAGE BANKING BUSINESS Our ability to generate revenue through mortgage sales to institutional investors largely depends on programs sponsored by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operation of those programs could have a material adverse effect on our mortgage banking business and results of operations. Also, any significant adverse change in the level of activity in the secondary market or the underwriting criteria of these entities would reduce our revenues. THE LOSS OF OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH GSES AND RELATED ENTITIES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS Our agreements with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac afford us a number of advantages and may be canceled by the counterparty for cause. Cancellation of one or more of these agreements would have a material adverse affect on our operating results and could result in further disqualification with other counterparties, loss of technology and other materially adverse consequences. AS A MORTGAGE LENDER, WE MUST COMPLY WITH NUMEROUS LICENSING REQUIREMENTS, AND OUR INABILITY TO REMAIN IN COMPLIANCE WITH SUCH REQUIREMENTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS AND OUR REPUTATION GENERALLY Like other mortgage banking companies, we must comply with the applicable licensing and other regulatory requirements of each jurisdiction in which we are authorized to lend. These requirements are complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. From time to time we are subject to examination by regulators and, if it is determined that we are not in compliance with the applicable requirements, we may be fined, and our license to lend in one or more jurisdictions may be suspended or revoked. IF OUR LOAN SERVICING PORTFOLIO DECREASES, OUR NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS WOULD BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED A large portion of our revenues in the Mortgage Banking business relate to recurring fees for servicing mortgages we originate or those for which we have sub-servicing agreements. Loans in our portfolio are subject to maturity, prepayments, defaults and refinancing after which we may not recapture the loan. Upon these events, our portfolio would decline, depriving us of the associated revenue stream. This, in turn, would negatively affect our net income and cash flows. PROPOSED CHANGES TO ACCOUNTING RULES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REPORTED NET INCOME During 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued proposed revisions to its Standard No. 140, ACCOUNTING FOR TRANSFERS AND SERVICING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND EXTINGUISHMENTS OF LIABILITIES, which governs the accounting for, among other things, the origination and sale of mortgage loans. One interpretation of the proposed changes may call into question whether the mortgages we originate and sell under the DUS and DUI programs may be recognized as sales for accounting purposes. Should that interpretation become a part of any final accounting standard issued, it is possible that we may have to continue to carry such loans on our balance sheet as assets, account for the proceeds received as debt and not recognize certain mortgage banking fees as revenues upon the sale as we do currently. Such accounting changes would decrease our reported net income, which may negatively affect our share price. In addition, the potential decline in net income and the likely increase in our level of reported debt may cause non-compliance with debt covenants. 21 Additionally, other changes contemplated could eliminate the designation of "Qualified Special Purpose Entities" ("QSPEs") which are a standard element of securitization transactions, particularly within the CMBS industry. Should such a change be effected, there could be a negative impact on our Fund Management business. 5. RISKS RELATED TO APPLICATION OF TAX LAWS OUR CLASSIFICATION AS A PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP NOT TAXABLE AS A CORPORATION IS NOT FREE FROM DOUBT AND COULD BE CHALLENGED We, and all of our Portfolio Investing subsidiaries, operate as partnerships or are disregarded for federal income tax purposes. This allows us to pass through our income, including our federally tax-exempt income, and deductions to our shareholders. The listing of our common shares on the New York Stock Exchange causes us to be treated as a "publicly traded partnership" for federal income tax purposes. We and our counsel, Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP ("Paul Hastings"), believe that we have been and are properly treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. However, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") could challenge our partnership status and we could fail to qualify as a partnership in years that are subject to audit or in future years. Qualification as a partnership involves the application of numerous technical legal provisions. For example, a publicly traded partnership is generally taxable as a corporation unless 90% or more of its gross income is "qualifying" income (which includes interest, dividends, real property rents, gains from the sale or other disposition of real property, gain from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of interest or dividends, and certain other items). We have represented that in all prior years of our existence at least 90% of our gross income was qualifying income and we intend to conduct our operations in a manner such that at least 90% of our gross income will constitute qualifying income in the current year and in the future. In the opinion of Paul Hastings, although the issue is not free from doubt, we have been and are properly treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. In determining whether interest is treated as qualifying income under these rules, interest income derived from a "financial business" and income and gains derived by a "dealer" in securities are not treated as qualifying income. We have represented that we are acting as an investor with respect to our mortgage revenue bond investments and that we have not engaged in, and will not engage in, a financial business, although there is no clear guidance on what constitutes a financial business under the tax law. We have taken the position that for purposes of determining whether we are in a financial business, portfolio investing activities that we are engaged in now and that we contemplate engaging in prospectively would not cause us to be engaged in a financial business or to be considered a "dealer" in securities. The IRS could assert that our activities constitute a financial business. If our activities constitute (or as a result of increased volume constitute) a financial business or cause us to be treated as a dealer, there is a substantial risk that more than 10% of our gross income would not constitute qualifying income. We could also be treated as if we were engaged in a financial business if the activities of CM Corp. and its subsidiaries were attributed to us and were determined to constitute a financial business. CM Corp., including its principal subsidiaries CharterMac Capital and CMC, is subject to income tax on its income. Accordingly, we believe the activities and income of CM Corp. and its subsidiaries will not be attributed to CharterMac for purposes of determining CharterMac's tax status. In addition, in determining whether interest is treated as qualifying income, interest income that is determined based upon the income or profits of any person is not treated as qualifying income. A portion of the interest payable on participating interest bonds owned by us is determined based upon the income or profits of the properties securing our investments. Accordingly, if we were to receive more than 10% of our gross income in any given year from such "contingent interest," the IRS could take the position that we should be treated as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. There can be no assurance that such monitoring would be effective in all events to avoid the receipt of contingent interest and any other non-qualifying income in any given year that exceeds 10% of our gross income because circumstances outside of our (or our subsidiaries) control could cause such a result. If, for any reason, less than 90% of our gross income constitutes qualifying income, items of income and deduction would not pass through to our shareholders and our shareholders would be treated for federal income tax purposes as stockholders in a corporation. We would be required to pay income tax at corporate rates on any portion of our net income that did not constitute tax-exempt income. In addition, a portion of our federally tax-exempt income may be included in determining our alternative minimum tax liability. Distributions by us to our shareholders would constitute dividend income taxable to such holders to the extent of our earnings and profits, which would include tax-exempt income, as well as any taxable income we might have, and the payment of these distributions would not be deductible by us. These consequences would have a material adverse effect on us, our shareholders and the price of our shares. 22 OUR TREATMENT OF INCOME FROM OUR RESIDUAL INTERESTS AS FEDERALLY TAX-EXEMPT COULD BE CHALLENGED We hold, indirectly, residual interests in certain federally tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds through securitization programs, such as the P-FLOATs/RITES program, which entitle us to a share of the federally tax-exempt interest of such mortgage revenue bonds. Special tax counsel have each rendered an opinion to the effect that the issuer of the RITES and similar instruments will each be classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and the holders of the RITES and similar instruments will be treated as partners of each partnership. Consequently, as the holder of the RITES and similar instruments, we treat our share of the federally tax-exempt income allocated and distributed to us as federally tax-exempt income. However, it is possible that the IRS could disagree with those conclusions and an alternative characterization could cause income from the RITES and similar instruments to be treated as ordinary taxable income. If such an assertion of an alternative characterization prevailed, it would materially adversely affect us and our shareholders. THERE IS A RISK THAT THE IRS WILL DISAGREE WITH OUR JUDGMENT WITH RESPECT TO ALLOCATIONS We use various accounting and reporting conventions to determine each shareholder's allocable share of income, including any market discount taxable as ordinary income, gain, loss and deductions. Our allocation provisions will be respected for federal income tax purposes only if they are considered to have "substantial economic effect" or are in accordance with the partners' "interest in the partnership." There is no assurance that the IRS will agree with our various accounting methods, conventions and allocation provisions, particularly our allocation of adjustments to shareholders attributable to the differences between the shareholders' purchase price of common shares and their shares of our tax basis in our assets, pursuant to an election we made. THE STRUCTURE OF OUR ACQUISITIONS COULD BE CHALLENGED Our acquisitions of CharterMac Capital and other subsidiaries were structured to prevent us from realizing active income from these businesses and effectively to receive a tax deduction (via the allocation of subsidiary income) for payments made to its selling principals. It is possible that the IRS could challenge this structure, with material adverse consequences to us. First, the IRS could assert that we, as the parent trust, are the owner of these businesses, in which case the parent trust would realize an amount of active income from them that would require it to be treated as a corporation instead of a publicly traded partnership for income tax purposes. If the IRS prevailed, we would be required to pay taxes on that income, thereby reducing the amount available for us to make distributions. As a result, it is likely that the value of our shares would decline. Second, the IRS might assert that the Special Common Units ("SCUs"), Special Membership Units ("SMUs") and Special Common Interests ("SCIs") held by the selling principals of the businesses and others are actually shares of our Company. If this position prevailed, the distributions payable on the units would not reduce the taxable income of CM Corp. In such event, CM Corp. would be subject to increased tax, which could reduce our net income, our cash flows and our distributions, which could also result in a decrease in the portion of our distributions that is excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes. THE TAXABILITY OF OUR INCOME DEPENDS UPON THE APPLICATION OF TAX LAWS THAT COULD BE CHALLENGED The following discussion relates only to the portion of our investments which generate federally tax-exempt income. TAX-EXEMPTION OF OUR MORTGAGE REVENUE BONDS On the date of original issuance or re-issuance of each mortgage revenue bond, nationally recognized bond counsel or special tax counsel rendered its opinion to the effect that, based on the law in effect on that date, interest on such mortgage revenue bonds is excludable from federally-taxable gross income, except with respect to any revenue bond (other than a revenue bond, the proceeds of which are loaned to a charitable organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Code) during any period in which it is held by a "substantial user" of the property financed with the proceeds of such mortgage revenue bonds or a "related person" of such a "substantial user." Each opinion speaks only as of the date it was delivered. In addition, in the case of mortgage revenue bonds which, subsequent to their original issuance, have been reissued for federal tax purposes, nationally recognized bond counsel or special tax counsel has delivered opinions that interest on the reissued bond is excludable from federally-taxable gross income of the holder from the date of re-issuance or, in some cases, to the effect that the re-issuance did not adversely affect the excludability of interest on the mortgage revenue 23 bonds from the gross income of the holders thereof. However, an opinion of counsel has no binding effect and there is no assurance that the IRS will not contest these conclusions or, if contested, that they will be sustained by a court. The Code establishes certain requirements which must be met subsequent to the issuance and delivery of tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds for interest on such mortgage revenue bonds to remain excludable from federally-taxable gross income. Among these continuing requirements are restrictions on the investment and use of the revenue bond proceeds and, for mortgage revenue bonds the proceeds of which are loaned to a charitable organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Code, the continued exempt status of such borrower. In addition, there is a requirement that the property be operated as a rental property and that during the Qualified Project Period (defined below) at least either: o 20% of the units must be rented to individuals or families whose income is less than 50% of the area median gross income (the "20/50 test"); or o 40% of the units must be rented to individuals or families whose income is less than 60% of the area median gross income (the "40/60 test"); in each case with adjustments for family size. The Qualified Project Period begins when 10% of the units in the property are first occupied and ends on the latest of the date: (i) which is 15 years after 50% of the units are occupied; (ii) on which all the bonds have been retired; or (iii) on which any assistance provided under Section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 terminates. Continuing requirements also include regulatory agreement compliance and compliance with rules pertaining to arbitrage. Each issuer of the mortgage revenue bonds, as well as each of the underlying borrowers, has covenanted to comply with certain procedures and guidelines designed to ensure satisfaction of the continuing requirements of the Code. Failure to comply with these continuing requirements of the Code may cause the interest on such bonds to be includable in federally-taxable gross income retroactively to the date of issuance, regardless of when such noncompliance occurs. Greenberg Traurig, LLP (also referred to as "Greenberg Traurig") as our bond counsel, and Paul Hastings, as our securities counsel (Greenberg Traurig and Paul Hastings are collectively referred to herein as our "Counsel"), have not, in connection with this filing, passed upon and do not assume any responsibility for, but rather have assumed the continuing correctness of, the opinions of bond counsel or special tax counsel (including opinions rendered by Greenberg Traurig) relating to the exclusion from federally-taxable gross income of interest on the mortgage revenue bonds and have not independently verified whether any events or circumstances have occurred since the date such opinions were rendered that would adversely affect the conclusions set forth herein. "SUBSTANTIAL USER" LIMITATION Interest on a mortgage revenue bond we own, other than a bond the proceeds of which are loaned to a charitable organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Code, will not be excluded from gross income during any period in which we are a "substantial user" of the properties financed with the proceeds of such mortgage revenue bond or a "related person" to a "substantial user." A "substantial user" generally includes any underlying borrower and any person or entity that uses the financed properties on other than a de minimis basis. We would be a "related person" to a "substantial user" for this purpose if, among other things, o the same person or entity owned more than a 50% interest in both us and in the properties financed with the proceeds of a bond owned by us or one of our subsidiaries; or o we owned a partnership or similar equity interest in the owner of a property financed with the proceeds of a bond owned by us or one of our subsidiaries. Greenberg Traurig has reviewed the mortgage revenue bonds we own, the ownership of the obligors of our mortgage revenue bonds and the ownership of our shares and our subsidiaries' shares, and concurs in the conclusion that we are not "substantial users" of the properties financed with the proceeds of the mortgage revenue bonds or related parties thereto. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS would not challenge such 24 conclusion. If such challenge were successful, the interest received on any bond for which we were treated as a "substantial user" or a "related party" thereto would be includable in federally taxable gross income. SECURITIZATION PROGRAMS AND REVENUE PROCEDURE 2003-84 Many of the senior interests in our securitization programs are held by tax-exempt money-market funds. For various reasons, money market funds will only acquire and hold interests in securitization programs that comply with Revenue Procedure 2003-84, which provides for exemption from Schedule K-1 reporting requirements for certain partnerships. Our counsel, Greenberg Traurig, has advised us that the partnerships we use in our securitizations currently meet the requirements of Revenue Procedure 2003-84. It is our intention to continue to meet those requirements, which include an income test and an expense test, on an ongoing basis. There can be no assurance, however, that unforeseen circumstances might cause one or more of our securitization partnerships to fail either the income test or the expense test, which would cause our securitization partnerships to have to comply with all of the requirements of subchapter K of the Code. In the event one or more of our securitization partnerships was forced to comply with the provisions of subchapter K of the Code, it is likely that all of the tax-exempt money market funds that hold the senior interests in those securitizations would tender their positions. This would require our remarketing agent to locate new purchasers, which were not tax-exempt money market funds, for those tendered senior interests. This would probably result in an increase in the distributions to the holders of the senior interests, which would reduce, dollar for dollar, the distributions on the residual interests in the securitizations, which are owned by us through our subsidiaries. TAXABLE INCOME In our Portfolio Investing business, we primarily invest in investments that produce only tax-exempt income. However, the IRS may seek to re-characterize a portion of our tax-exempt income as taxable income as described above. If the IRS were successful, a shareholder's distributive share of such income would be taxable to the shareholder, regardless of whether an amount of cash equal to such distributive share is actually distributed. Any taxable income would be allocated pro rata among our CRA Preferred Shares, our CRA Shares and our common shares. We may also have taxable income in the form of market discount or gain on the sale or other disposition of our investments, and we expect to own investments and engage in certain fee generating activities (through our subsidiaries) that will generate taxable income. The following discussion relates only to our REIT subsidiary: ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES OF FAILURE TO MAINTAIN REIT STATUS MAY INCLUDE TAXATION OF A PORTION OF OUR EARNINGS NOT OTHERWISE TAXABLE ARCap REIT, Inc. ("ARCap REIT"), a subsidiary of ARCap, intends to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. If ARCap REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to its stockholders would not be deductible in computing its taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Unless entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Code, ARCap REIT also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which it ceased to qualify as a REIT. ARCap REIT must distribute annually at least 90% of its taxable income (excluding any net capital gain) in order to be exempt from corporate income taxation of the earnings that it distributes. In addition, ARCap REIT is subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions it pays with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of: 1. 85% of its ordinary income for that year, 2. 95% of its capital gain net income for that year; and 3. 100% of its undistributed ordinary income and capital gain net income from prior years. While ARCap REIT intends to make distributions to its stockholders to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and to be exempt from the nondeductible excise tax, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may require it to borrow funds to meet this distribution requirement and to avoid the excise tax. In 25 addition, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of its taxable income could cause ARCap REIT to: 1. distribute amounts that represent a return of capital; 2. distribute amounts that would otherwise be spent on capital expenditures or repayment of debt; or 3. distribute amounts that may be treated as excess inclusion income and accordingly, unrelated business taxable income in the hands of certain not-for-profit stockholders. To qualify as a REIT, ARCap REIT must satisfy certain requirements concerning the nature of its assets and income, which may restrict its ability to invest in various types of assets. Specifically: 1. at least 75% of ARCap's assets must consist of real estate assets, cash and cash items, and certain government securities, to ensure that the bulk of ARCap REIT's investments are either equity or mortgage interests in real property; and 2. ARCap REIT will not be able to acquire securities (other than securities that are treated as an interest in real property or interests in a taxable REIT subsidiary) of any single issuer that would represent either more than 5% of the total value of its assets or 10% of the voting securities of such issuer, to ensure a diversification of ARCap REIT's non-real-property investments. In addition, to satisfy the income requirements of a REIT, ARCap REIT generally will be restricted to acquiring assets that generate qualifying income for purposes of certain income tests. These restrictions could affect adversely ARCap REIT's ability to optimize its portfolio of assets. CHANGES IN TAX LAWS REGARDING REITS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR NET INCOME Congress, and to some extent the United States Department of Treasury, as well as state legislatures and regulatory authorities, could at any time adversely change the way in which a REIT and its stockholders are taxed, by imposing additional entity-level taxes, further restricting the permissible beneficial ownership and types of assets and income of a REIT, requiring additional distributions, or changing the law in any other respect. Moreover, such changes could apply retroactively. Should any such changes be implemented, they would likely cause our net income to decline. 6. RISKS RELATED TO INVESTING IN OUR COMPANY BECAUSE WE HOLD MOST OF OUR INVESTMENTS THROUGH OUR SUBSIDIARIES, OUR SHAREHOLDERS ARE EFFECTIVELY SUBORDINATED TO THE LIABILITIES AND EQUITY OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES We hold most of our investments through our subsidiaries. Because we own only common equity of our subsidiaries, we, and therefore holders of our shares, are effectively subordinated to the debt obligations, preferred equity, SCUs, SMUs and SCIs of our subsidiaries, which at December 31, 2006, aggregated approximately $3.1 billion. In particular, the holders of the preferred shares of one of our Equity Issuer subsidiaries are entitled to receive preferential distributions with respect to revenues generated by mortgage revenue bonds held directly or indirectly by it, which constitute a substantial portion of our assets. Similarly, holders of senior interests created through our securitization programs have a superior claim to the cash flow from the mortgage revenue bonds deposited in such programs. Accordingly, a portion of the cash flow from our investments will not be available for distribution on our common shares. Likewise if we pay a common dividend: o holders of SCUs issued by our CharterMac Capital Company LLC ("CCC") subsidiary are entitled to receive preferential distributions with respect to the earnings of CharterMac Capital; o holders of SMUs issued by our CM Investor LLC ("CM Investor") subsidiary are entitled to receive preferential distributions with respect to the earnings of CM Investor; and o holders of SCIs issued by our ARCap subsidiary are entitled to receive preferential distributions with respect to the earnings of ARCap. Those earnings, therefore, may not be available for distribution to our common shareholders. 26 WE DEPEND UPON THE SERVICES OF OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS We and our subsidiaries depend upon the services of our executive officers and other individuals who comprise our executive management team. All decisions with respect to the management and control of our Company and our subsidiaries, subject to the supervision of our board of trustees (or the applicable subsidiary's board), are currently made by these key officers. The departure or the loss of the services of any of these key officers or a large number of senior management personnel and other employees could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business effectively and our future results of operations. OUR BOARD OF TRUSTEES CAN CHANGE OUR BUSINESS POLICIES UNILATERALLY Our board of trustees may amend or revise our business plan and certain other policies without shareholder approval. Therefore, our shareholders have no control over changes in our policies, including our business policies with respect to acquisitions, financing, growth, debt, capitalization and distributions, which are determined by our board of trustees. THERE ARE POSSIBLE ADVERSE EFFECTS ARISING FROM SHARES AVAILABLE FOR FUTURE SALE Our board of trustees is permitted to offer additional equity or debt securities of our Company and our subsidiaries in exchange for money, property or other consideration. Our ability to sell or exchange such securities will depend on conditions then prevailing in the relevant capital markets and our results of operations, financial condition, investment portfolio and business prospects. Subject to New York Stock Exchange rules which require shareholder approval for certain issuances of securities and as long as the issuance is made in accordance with our trust agreement, the issuance of such additional securities will not be subject to the approval of our shareholders and may negatively affect the resale price of our shares. Shareholders will not have any preemptive rights in connection with the issuance of any additional securities we or our subsidiaries may offer and any of our equity offerings would cause dilution of a shareholder's investment in us. THE FORMER OWNERS OF CHARTERMAC CAPITAL AND MEMBERS OF OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM HAVE SIGNIFICANT VOTING POWER ON MATTERS SUBMITTED TO A VOTE OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS, AND THEIR INTERESTS MAY BE IN CONFLICT WITH THE INTERESTS OF OUR OTHER SHAREHOLDERS In connection with our acquisition of CharterMac Capital, we issued to each of its selling principals one special preferred voting share for each SCU they received. Our special preferred voting shares have no economic interest, but entitle each holder to one vote per special preferred voting share on all matters subject to a vote of the holders of our common shares. The selling principals of CharterMac Capital who received special preferred voting shares include members of our executive management team (Mr. Hirmes and Mr. Schnitzer) and a subsidiary of The Related Companies, L.P. ("TRCLP"), which is controlled by Mr. Ross, the chairman of our board of trustees. Mr. Schnitzer and Mr. Hirmes have also received share grants from the Company that are entitled to vote during the vesting periods, as have other members of our executive management team. As a result of the special preferred voting share issuance, additional common shares directly or indirectly owned by them and share grants we have made, members of our executive management team and Mr. Ross in the aggregate directly or indirectly owned voting shares representing approximately 20.7% of our voting power as of December 31, 2006. As such, if they vote as a block, such shareholders will have significant voting power on all matters submitted to a vote of our common shareholders. Also, because three of the selling principals of CharterMac Capital serve as our managing trustees, there are ongoing conflicts of interest when we are required to determine whether or not to take actions to enforce our rights under the various agreements entered into in connection with the CharterMac Capital acquisition. While any material decisions involving these persons are subject to the vote of a majority of our independent trustees, such decisions may create conflicts between us and these persons. In addition, we have some obligations to these former owners which will require us to make choices as to how we operate our business which may affect those obligations. For example, we have guaranteed the payment to all holders of the SCUs of all but $5.0 million of the distributions they would otherwise be entitled to receive under the operating agreement of CCC. In addition, we have agreed to share cash flow from investment programs so that we and certain of these former owners can receive payment of deferred fees. Further, TRCLP and its 27 affiliates currently engage in businesses which compete with us. The non-competition covenants contained in a future relations agreement entered into by TRCLP and its affiliates in connection with our acquisition of CharterMac Capital prohibit TRCLP and its affiliates from competing with any business currently engaged in by us other than in specified areas, including: o providing credit intermediation on debt products secured by "80/20" multifamily housing properties; and o providing mezzanine financing to multifamily housing properties other than so-called "tax credit properties." There can be no assurance that we and TRCLP and its affiliates will not compete for similar products and opportunities in these areas in the future. NO ASSURANCE CAN BE GIVEN THAT OUR SHAREHOLDERS WILL BE ENTITLED TO THE SAME LIMITATION ON PERSONAL LIABILITY AS STOCKHOLDERS OF PRIVATE CORPORATIONS FOR PROFIT We are governed by the laws of the State of Delaware. Under our trust agreement and the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, as amended ("Delaware Act"), our shareholders will be entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. In general, stockholders of Delaware corporations are not personally liable for the payment of corporate debts and obligations, and are liable only to the extent of their investment in the Delaware corporation. However, a shareholder may be obligated to make certain payments provided for in our trust agreement and bylaws. The properties securing our investments are dispersed in numerous states and the District of Columbia. In jurisdictions which have not adopted legislative provisions regarding statutory trusts similar to those of the Delaware Act, questions exist as to whether such jurisdictions would recognize a statutory trust, absent a state statute, and whether a court in such jurisdiction would recognize the Delaware Act as controlling. If not, a court in such jurisdiction could hold that our shareholders are not entitled to the limitation of liability set forth in our trust agreement and the Delaware Act and, as a result, are personally liable for our debts and obligations. OUR ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS MAY DISCOURAGE THIRD-PARTY PROPOSALS Certain provisions of our trust agreement may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our Company. This could inhibit a change in control of our Company under circumstances that could give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over then-prevailing market prices. Such provisions include the following: ADDITIONAL CLASSES AND SERIES OF SHARES Our trust agreement permits our board of trustees to issue additional classes or series of beneficial interests and to establish the preferences and rights of any such securities. Thus, our board of trustees could authorize the issuance of beneficial interests with terms and conditions which could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction. STAGGERED BOARD Our board of trustees is divided into three classes of managing trustees. The terms of the first, second and third classes will expire in 2008, 2009 and 2007, respectively. Managing trustees for each class will be chosen for a three-year term upon the expiration of the current class' term. The use of a staggered board makes it more difficult for a third-party to acquire control over us. SALES IN THE PUBLIC MARKET OF OUR COMMON SHARES ISSUABLE IN EXCHANGE FOR OUR SCUS, SMUS AND SCIS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR SHARES Future sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our shares. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 14.8 million common shares remained issuable in exchange for the SCUs we issued, approximately 278,000 common shares remained issuable in exchange for the SMUs we issued, approximately 268,000 common shares remained issuable in exchange for the SCIs we issued and we have granted restricted common shares of which approximately 2.1 million were unvested at December 31, 2006. When these shares vest and/or convert, their sale in the public market could, and depending upon the number of involved, likely would, adversely affect 28 prevailing market prices of our shares and our ability to raise additional capital through the equity markets. As of December 31, 2006, TRCLP and its owners indirectly held approximately 10.2 million SCUs and approximately 543,000 common shares which, subject to some exceptions, are not subject to a lock-up agreement. In addition, former executives of our Company held approximately 2.0 million SCUs as of December 31, 2006. These SCUs are not subject to lock-up agreements and may be converted to common shares at any time. IF WE HAD TO REGISTER UNDER THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT, THERE COULD BE NEGATIVE CONSEQUENCES TO OUR INVESTMENT STRATEGY Neither we nor our subsidiaries are registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act") and we may not be able to conduct our activities as we currently do if we were required to so register. At all times, we intend to conduct our activities, and those of our subsidiaries, so as not to become regulated as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act. Even if we are not an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we could be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act if a subsidiary of ours were deemed to be an investment company. There are a number of possible exemptions from registration under the Investment Company Act that we believe apply to us and our subsidiaries and which we believe make it possible for us not to be subject to registration under the Investment Company Act. For example, the Investment Company Act exempts entities that are "primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate," which we refer to as "qualifying interests." Under current interpretations by the SEC staff, one of the ways in which our subsidiaries can qualify for this exemption is to maintain at least 55% of their assets directly in qualifying interests and the balance in real estate-type interests. We believe our subsidiaries can rely on this exemption or another exemption from registration. The requirement that our subsidiaries maintain 55% of their assets in qualifying interests (or satisfy another exemption from registration) may inhibit our ability to acquire certain kinds of assets or to securitize additional interests in the future. If any of our subsidiaries fail to qualify for exemption from registration as an investment company and we, in turn, are required to register as an investment company, our ability to maintain our financing strategies would be substantially reduced, and we would be unable to conduct our business as described herein. Such a failure to qualify could have a material adverse effect upon our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. AN INABILITY TO RAISE CAPITAL OR ACCESS FINANCING ON FAVORABLE TERMS, OR AT ALL, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR GROWTH A major aspect of our business plan includes the acquisition of additional mortgage revenue bonds, which requires capital. We typically fund the expansion of our business through a combination of operating cash flows, short-term borrowings, securitizations, repurchase agreements and long-term borrowings. A failure to renew our existing facilities, to increase our capacity under our existing facilities or to add or new or replacement debt facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See the description of our existing facilities under "MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES." We also raise capital by periodically offering securities issued by us or one or more of our subsidiaries. Our ability to raise capital through securities offerings is subject to risks, including: o conditions then prevailing in the relevant capital markets; o our results of operations, financial condition, investment portfolio and business prospects; o the timing and amount of distributions to the holders of our shares which could negatively affect the price of a common share; and o the amount of securities that are structurally senior to the securities being sold. 29 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 