ITEM 1A. Risk Factors ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments ITEM 2. Properties ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings ITEM 4. Reserved PART II ITEM 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure ITEM 9A(T). Controls and Procedures ITEM 9B. Other Information PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance ITEM 11. Executive Compensation ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES Report of Independent Registered Accounting Firm—Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the two years ended December 31, 2009 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the two years ended December 31, 2009 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the two years ended December 31, 2009 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Reorganization of Ore Pharmaceuticals Inc. into a Holding Company Structure On October 20, 2009, the stockholders of Ore Pharmaceuticals Inc. (“Ore”) adopted the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated August 14, 2009, by and among Ore, Ore Pharmaceutical Holdings Inc. (the “Registrant”) and Ore Pharmaceuticals Merger Sub Inc. (the “Agreement”). The reorganization contemplated by the Agreement (the “Reorganization”) was consummated on October 20, 2009. In accordance with the Agreement, as described in the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4, originally filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 14, 2009, and as amended thereafter, Ore became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Registrant and each share of Common Stock of Ore was exchanged for one share of Common Stock of the Registrant. As a r esult of the Reorganization, the Registrant is the successor issuer to Ore pursuant to Rule 12g-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Pursuant to paragraph (a) of Rule 12g-3, the Registrant’s Common Stock is deemed registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and the Registrant has succeeded to Ore’s reporting obligations under Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act. References to Ore, the Registrant or the Company for the period prior to October 20, 2009 refer to Ore Pharmaceuticals Inc. and for the period following October 20, 2009 refer to Ore Pharmaceutical Holdings Inc. 2 PART I This Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”) contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future results of Ore Pharmaceutical Holdings Inc. (“Ore Holdings”) that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which Ore Holdings operates and its business and the beliefs and assumptions of the management of Ore Holdings. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only prediction s and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed in this Form 10-K under the section entitled “Risk Factors.” Ore Holdings undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in management’s expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements are based. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to “Ore Holdings,” “Ore,” “Ore Pharmaceutical Holdings Inc.,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Ore Pharmaceutical Holdings Inc. Gene Logic® is a registered trademark of Ocimum Biosolutions, Inc. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Corporate History We were incorporated in September 1994 as a Delaware corporation and completed our initial public offering in 1997. Formerly named Gene Logic Inc., we changed our name to Ore Pharmaceuticals Inc. in December 2007. Until 2006, our core business was licensing our proprietary genomics databases and software and providing related services. In 2006, following a strategic reevaluation of our business we embarked on a series of actions. In December 2006, we sold our preclinical testing services subsidiary (sometimes referred to as our Preclinical Division) to Bridge Pharmaceuticals, Inc. In December 2007, we sold the assets of our Genomics Division (the “Genomics Assets”) and the related name “Gene Logic” to Ocimum Biosolutions, Inc. (“Ocimum”). We retained certain technology and the right to use our genomics databases for the purposes of drug development and molecular diagnostics. In 2008, we focused our efforts on our drug repositioning and development business, which was based on certain drug indication-seeking technologies that we had previously acquired from Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Millennium”) and on the proprietary genomics databases and software we had developed. As part of this decision, in September 2008, we sold our molecular diagnostics subsidiary, DioGenix Inc., to Nerveda, Inc. (“Nerveda”). Through our drug repositioning efforts, we identified potential new therapeutic uses for specific compounds. In late 2008, we discontinued further drug repositioning efforts to focus on developing certain of these compounds for the new uses. On October 20, 2009, we completed a reorganization that was undertaken primarily in order to better protect the value of our approximately $329 million in gross net operating and capital loss carryforwards that can be used to reduce the amount of income tax we could be required to pay on future earnings from our business. As a result of this reorganization, Ore Pharmaceuticals Inc. became a wholly owned subsidiary of a new company, Ore Pharmaceutical Holdings Inc. All the outstanding shares of Ore Pharmaceuticals Inc. were converted into shares of Ore Holdings and Ore Holdings then became the publicly traded company that we now refer to as “Ore.” In September 2009, we received notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market (“Nasdaq”) that our stock would be subject to delisting if we did not regain compliance by having a closing bid price equal or above $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days prior to March 15, 2010. On March 16, 2010, we were further notified by Nasdaq that we had not regained compliance and that trading in our stock would be suspended on March 25, 2010 in the event we did not submit an appeal to Nasdaq. We determined not to submit an appeal and, as a result, trading in our stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market was suspended on March 25, 2010, and will be delisted thereafter. We are currently undert aking efforts to have our stock publicly traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the “Pink Sheets”, although there is no assurance we will be able to accomplish that goal. 3 Our Business Following our reorganization described above, we are focused on developing and monetizing our current portfolio of pharmaceutical assets, which includes four compounds in-licensed from major pharmaceutical companies. Our intention at the time of the reorganization was to explore and, if feasible, implement a strategy by which we would finance development of our portfolio through establishing alternative investment and program development vehicles, with Ore receiving program management fees from, and equity interests in, these vehicles. To date we have not formed any of these vehicles and we are uncertain that we will be successful in implementing this strategy and business model in the future, in which case we may determine to take other actions designed to preserve, increase and realize the value of these asse ts. Each of our compounds has been observed to be well-tolerated in human clinical trials to date. We are evaluating our lead compound, ORE1001, as a potential treatment for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (“IBD”). IBD is a severe gastrointestinal condition that is estimated to affect as many as one million people in the United States alone. We initiated a Phase Ib/IIa clinical trial in patients with ulcerative colitis – one of the two main disorders comprising IBD – in the fourth quarter of 2009. Completion of this trial along with subsequent licensing will be subject to our ability to obtain sufficient financing. Our Portfolio of Drug Candidates We currently have four drug candidates for which we have obtained rights, including development rights, for new uses we discovered. All of these drug candidates have undergone extensive preclinical safety testing and have completed early-stage human clinical trials. Using our drug repositioning technology, we found potential alternate uses for these drug candidates that our drug repositioning partners had not previously investigated. Since these drug candidates have already been in early stage clinical testing, we believe we can quickly move these drug candidates back into clinical development, enabling us to efficiently determine their potential for their newly discovered indications. Our right to develop each of our current drug candidates resulted from commercial arrangements with third parties (see “Contractual Arrangements” below). Under these arrangements, we are obligated to pay to such third parties certain success-based milestones during clinical development, as well as royalties on future commercial sales. ORE1001 Our lead drug candidate and the primary focus of our scientific efforts is ORE1001, which we are developing for the treatment of IBD. In December 2008 we completed a multiple ascending dose Phase I clinical trial in the United States that demonstrated an acceptable safety profile for continued development. We initiated a Phase Ib/IIa clinical trial of ORE1001 for ulcerative colitis in the fourth quarter of 2009, though completion of this trial will be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing. Background on ORE1001 In 2006, we acquired the rights to develop ORE1001 from Millennium. Through extensive analysis, we have identified potential new therapeutic uses for this drug candidate to treat IBD and other gastrointestinal diseases and conditions. ORE1001 is a potent inhibitor of the ACE2 enzyme, whose substrates include several bioactive peptides. We have broadly analyzed ORE1001’s action, as well as its disease-specific expression in human tissue samples. Our animal models indicate that ORE1001 reduces signs of injury and inflammation in experimental colitis, gastritis and gastric ulcer. In a particular model, our drug candidate reduced the severity of histological lesions and was observed to target colon tissue. In another model, ORE1001 reduced gastric damage scores induced by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. 4 In 2002, ORE1001 was tested by Millennium in a single ascending dose Phase I clinical study in the United Kingdom. Results of that clinical trial indicated that the drug candidate was well-tolerated up to the highest dose tested. In June 2008, we filed an investigational new drug (“IND”) application with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) for ORE1001 (see “Drug Development” below). Following clearance of the IND and to confirm ORE1001’s safety profile in humans, we commenced clinical testing of ORE1001 in September 2008 in a multiple ascending dose Phase I clinical trial. This study was a blinded, placebo-controlled study in 32 healthy volunteers that studied the effects on subjects of multiple ascend ing doses. The drug candidate was orally administered for 14 days. Results of that trial showed that the drug candidate appeared to be well tolerated by humans, with no serious adverse events observed. Therapeutic Opportunity – Inflammatory Bowel Disease IBD consists of two categories of disease: ulcerative colitis (“UC”) and Crohn’s disease (“CD”). These are conditions that are characterized by intermittent, relapsing intestinal inflammation. UC tends to occur in the terminal portions of the digestive tract, and CD can occur anywhere in the digestive tract. Most patients diagnosed with IBD are believed to have UC or CD and the remaining 15% have “indeterminate colitis” with symptoms that fall between CD and UC. The clinical trial for ORE1001 that we initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 is focused on treatment of UC; however, animal model results suggest that ORE1001 may also be useful in the treatment of CD. UC is characterized by diffuse inflammation affecting the mucosal and submucosal layers of the colon that typically is most intense in the rectum and can extend into the colon. In about one-third of UC patients, the entire large bowel is affected. The inflammation can result in ulcerations that can lead to complications such as bloody diarrhea. Current therapies do not appear to cure the disease or prevent future recurrences. Chronic inflammation increases the risk of colon cancer, making surveillance for dysplasia (a form of pre-cancer) necessary even if the actual inflammatory disease remains in remission. CD is more varied in its inflammatory process and clinical manifestations. Typically, inflammation affects all layers (referred to as transmural inflammation), in contrast to the superficial inflammation found in UC. Unlike UC, where the inflammatory process is typically diffuse and continuous in extent, CD inflammation may be patchy and segmental. Symptoms can reflect the inflammation itself or the scarring that can result (fibrostenotic disease). Often the gastrointestinal tract becomes obstructed at the affected site. In many patients, the transmural inflammation can result in pathologic connections between the intestine and a variety of structures, including other parts of the gastrointestinal tract, the bladder and the skin (m ost commonly in the perineal or perianal region). While CD can result in a wide range of symptoms, patients can experience a combination of abdominal pain, diarrhea and weight loss. In pediatric patients, lack of growth is a particularly common manifestation. In addition to symptoms related directly to gastrointestinal tract function, a significant minority of patients with either UC or CD also experience manifestations outside the intestinal tract due to associated inflammation affecting the skin, eyes, joints, liver and bile ducts. Although specific episodes or complications of CD can respond to available drugs or surgical intervention, none are curative, and the disease is life-long. It is estimated that up to one million people in the United States are affected by IBD and there are as many as four million sufferers worldwide. With typical onset in childhood or early adulthood, these disorders cause many decades of pain and suffering and result in significant lost productivity, in addition to the direct costs of medical and surgical care. Limitations of Current IBD Treatments Existing therapies present significant concerns in efficacy, safety and dosing. Although a variety of medications are available that can control inflammation and relieve the resulting symptoms, none provide fully effective treatment, and almost all are associated with the risk of serious side effects. Surgical intervention plays a key role in the management of some patients. However, even with surgery, recurrence of IBD over time is likely. There is a significant unmet medical need for therapies to offer long-term therapeutic relief of the serious symptoms exhibited by patients with IBD with less adverse side effects than current medications. Potential Therapeutic Opportunity – Radiation Enteritis In addition to IBD, we are also investigating use of ORE1001 for the treatment of radiation enteritis (also known as radiation enteropathy), an adverse side-effect of radiation therapy for cancer where the mucosal lining of the intestine is damaged by cytotoxic radiation. An early preclinical study testing ORE1001 in a radiation enteritis animal model showed positive results. In October 2009, we entered into a research material transfer agreement with the Armed Forces Radiobiology Research Institute (AFRRI) where ORE1001 will, without cost to us, be evaluated for potential utility in countering the adverse effects of radiation. 5 Commercialization Opportunities As we proceed with our early-stage clinical testing, we are actively seeking to enter into an arrangement with one or more third parties that would conduct or finance later-stage clinical development and commercialization of ORE1001. ORE10002 In 2009, we acquired development and commercialization rights for ORE10002 from H. Lundbeck A/S (“Lundbeck”). Lundbeck had previously conducted phase II clinical trials of ORE10002 and was developing the compound in the area of depression. Lundbeck ceased development of ORE10002 for reasons other than safety. We have discovered that ORE10002 has potent anti-inflammatory activities that we believe may make the compound attractive in several inflammation-based conditions. Lundbeck has an extensive package of preclinical and clinical development data related to ORE10002. We are currently evaluating ORE10002 in animal models of inflammatory disease. Tiapamil In 2008, we acquired development and commercialization rights for tiapamil from F. Hoffman La Roche Ltd. (“Roche”). We have discovered that tiapamil activates a major regulatory protein in the brain, an activity for which this drug candidate and its class of L-type calcium channel antagonists had not been previously developed. We have thus identified potentially novel therapeutic uses for tiapamil in certain central nervous system diseases, particularly focused on cognition and memory. Development of tiapamil was discontinued by Roche in 1986 for reasons other than safety after completing Phase II trials in hypertension, dysrhythmia and angina pectoris. Based on the results of our early preclinical studies, we intend to develop tiapamil for the most appropriate of several potential indications. Additional preclinical work will likely be necessary to assist in this determination prior to filing an IND with the FDA. We have not yet determined when or whether we will make such a filing. The composition of matter patents (see “Intellectual Property Rights” below) for tiapamil that were filed by Roche have expired; however, we have filed provisional method-of-use patent applications for tiapamil based on our preclinical discoveries. Because tiapamil has never been made available commercially, we expect that any issued patents resulting from our patent applications would adequately protect a developer in the marketplace from generic competition for the remainder of such patents’ lives. Romazarit In 2008, we also acquired development and commercialization rights from Roche for the clinical-stage drug candidate romazarit. We have identified potentially novel therapeutic uses for romazarit in metabolic diseases and subsequently observed lowered lipid levels, weight and glucose levels in preclinical testing, which could allow this drug candidate to be developed for the treatment of metabolic indications such as obesity. Development of romazarit was discontinued by Roche in 1990 for reasons other than safety during Phase II trials for rheumatoid arthritis. Based on our preclinical efforts, we intend to develop romazarit for a metabolic indication, although we expect that some limited preclinical work will be necessary to assist in delineating the appropriate development path and prior to filing any IND with the FDA. The composition of matter patents for romazarit have also expired; however, we have filed provisional method-of-use patent applications for romazarit based on the results of our preclinical analysis. Because romazarit has never been made available commercially, we expect that any issued patents resulting from our patent applications would adequately protect a developer in the marketplace from generic competition for the remainder of such patents’ lives. 6 Drug Development Today, drug development in the United States generally consists of the following steps: · Discovery. Discovery is the process of identifying new biological targets and the compounds that can affect them. Targets must be identified, prioritized and validated. · Preclinical Testing. Compounds that are being considered as drugs are studied in the laboratory and in animal studies to determine if the compound will have an acceptable safety profile and if it will be effective in treating the targeted disease or condition (i.e. show efficacy in treatment). For certain diseases, animal models may exist which may predict human efficacy. · Investigational New Drug ("IND") Application. After completing preclinical testing, an IND application is filed with the FDA for permission to test the compound in humans. The IND application includes the results of any animal studies and any other relevant safety and efficacy data. · Clinical Trials. These trials consist of a series of increasingly complex and costly studies (Phase I, II and III) designed to show the effect of drug candidates administered to human subjects that ultimately can involve up to several thousand patients over a multi-year period. ° Phase I Trials. Represents the initial introduction of an investigational new drug into a small number of healthy human subjects to test for safety concerns and possible adverse effects, dosage tolerance, absorption, biodistribution, metabolism, excretion and clinical pharmacology. These trials may also potentially provide early indications of efficacy. In some instances, a slightly more advanced Phase Ib study can be used as a “proof of concept,” or confirmation of the drug developer’s hypothesis. ° Phase II Trials. Includes early, controlled, small-scale clinical studies conducted to obtain initial data on the efficacy of the drug, to determine dose tolerance and optimal dose range and to gather additional information relating to safety and potential adverse effects. Phase II studies are sometimes divided into Phase IIa and Phase IIb. Phase IIa is designed to assess “proof of concept” (i.e. does the drug demonstrate the intended therapeutic effect), as well as dosing requirements (how much drug should be given), and Phase IIb is specifically designed to study efficacy (how well the drug works at the prescribed doses). ° Phase III Trials. Consists of clinical trials involving substantially larger groups of subjects and longer testing after initial evidence of effectiveness of the drug has been obtained in Phase II trials. These trials also gather additional information about effectiveness and safety needed to evaluate the overall benefit-risk relationship of the drug. Phase III studies usually include several hundred to several thousand people and may be conducted over multiple years. As Phase III trials are the most expensive of the clinical trials, with costs frequently in excess of $50 million and in some cases more than $100 million, smaller companies often attempt to out-license their drug candidates prior to Phase III trials. · New Drug Application ("NDA") and Approval. Following successful completion of clinical trials, the developers are required to file NDA applications with the FDA for its approval to allow commercial manufacture, marketing and sale of the drug (referred to as commercializing the drug). This process can also be both extensive and burdensome and the FDA can request additional testing. Business Development Our business development activities primarily have consisted of identifying compounds that we consider attractive for in-licensing, as well as interacting with third parties potentially interested in licensing or acquiring our drug candidates. Additional efforts are directed at out-licensing non-core assets such as portions of our intellectual property portfolio or preclinical stage compounds. 7 Research & Development Research and development expenses for the years ended 2009 and 2008 were $2.5 million and $9.7 million, respectively. In 2009 and 2008, our research and development expenses primarily related to the development of ORE1001. Contractual Arrangements We obtained rights to ORE1001 from Millennium, to ORE10002 from Lundbeck and to romazarit and tiapamil from Roche. Under the terms of a Compound Transfer and Development Agreement with Millennium dated July 26, 2006, we obtained broad rights to develop and/or out-license ORE1001 in any disease indication, except for oncology diseases. Under the agreement, we, or any successor that ultimately develops ORE1001, would be obligated to make certain milestone payments to Millennium based on the achievement of the following milestones: · upon completion of Phase IIa clinical trials; · upon initiation of Phase III clinical trials; and · upon first obtaining regulatory approval to market the drug. In addition, the developer of ORE1001 will be obligated to make royalty payments to Millennium equal to a percentage of net commercial sales of approved products containing ORE1001. The term of this agreement extends to the life of any of our valid patents for ORE1001. Under the terms of a Transfer and Development Agreement with Lundbeck dated June 26, 2009, we obtained rights to develop and/or out-license ORE10002 in any disease indication, other than central nervous system diseases and indications. Under the agreement, we, or any successor that ultimately develops ORE10002, would be obligated to make certain milestone payments to Lundbeck based on achievement of the following milestones: · upon establishing efficacy in a Phase II clinical trial; · upon commencement of a Phase III clinical trial; · upon obtaining U.S. marketing approval; and · upon obtaining European marketing approval. In addition, the developer of ORE10002 will be required to make royalty payments to Lundbeck equal to a percentage of worldwide net sales of an approved product containing ORE10002. The term of this agreement extends to the later of, (i) ten years from the effective date of the agreement; (ii) the last to expire claim in the patents that cover ORE10002; or (iii) the end of the royalty term. Under the terms of the Drug Indication Evaluation and Development Agreement with Roche dated December 5, 2005, and amended on June 13, 2008, we obtained rights to develop and/or out-license romazarit and tiapamil. Under the agreement, we, or any successor that ultimately develops either tiapamil or romazarit, would be obligated to make certain milestone payments to Roche based on the achievement of the following milestones: · upon filing or reactivation of an IND; · upon preliminary efficacy established in a Phase II clinical trial; · upon initiation of Phase III clinical trials; and · upon obtaining regulatory approval to market the drug in the United States, Europe and/or Japan. In addition, the developer of either tiapamil or romazarit will be obligated to make royalty payments to Roche equal to a percentage of net commercial sales of approved products containing such drug candidates. The term of this agreement extends to the life of any of our valid patents for tiapamil or romazarit, as the case may be. 8 Competition Currently, there are many small pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies developing drugs. In many instances, these companies may not have the experience or resources necessary to bring a compound through the full clinical and regulatory process to obtain marketing approval and thus must seek assistance from larger companies. Recently, difficult economic conditions and the difficulties smaller companies have in obtaining capital appear to be causing more of these smaller companies to seek such assistance earlier in the development process. We compete with these companies to enter into commercial arrangements with larger, more well-established, companies. In addition, we expect to see competition from both manufacturers of existing drugs and drugs currently in development to treat patients afflicted with diseases or conditions that can be treated with our drug candidates. Products in this market will be differentiated based on cost, effectiveness, dosage sizes, side effects and interaction with other therapies and drugs. Companies such as Warner Chilcott plc, Pfizer, Inc., Salix Pharmaceuticals Ltd. and Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc. currently market drugs that we anticipate would compete with ORE1001 for the treatment of IBD. We believe that the following companies are currently developing drugs that, if approved, would also compete with ORE1001 for IBD treatment: Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd., DanioLabs Ltd ., BioLineRx, Ltd., Cosmo Pharmaceuticals S.p.A., AGI Therapeutics PLC and SLA Pharma AG. Each of these companies has substantially greater financial resources than we have. There may be other drugs in development for IBD treatment of which we are not aware. Suppliers We outsource a number of technical activities to achieve our business goals. These activities include performing preclinical and clinical testing, compound manufacturing and designing clinical protocols that meet FDA and other regulatory standards. We have entered into contractual arrangements with experienced professional consultants to provide advice and assistance in meeting various regulatory requirements while we seek to conduct clinical trials for ORE1001. We also have a manufacturing agreement to provide sufficient quantities of ORE1001 for our clinical testing needs. Finally, we have service arrangements with a number of clinical research organizations to design the protocols, identify clinical facilities to recruit participants and c onduct trials and to manage and oversee the actual conduct of clinical trials for ORE1001. Because there is an adequate supply of other providers who could perform the services provided by our suppliers, we do not believe that we are dependent on any of our suppliers. Intellectual Property Rights As of December 31, 2009, we own or have license rights to 15 issued patents, 13 of which are United States patents, and 57 patent applications, 24 of which are United States utility (non-provisional) or provisional patent applications. Of such patents and patent applications, 6 U.S. patents and 9 patent applications relate to ORE1001 and 6 U.S. patents and 14 patent applications relate to the other drug candidates in our pipeline. The remaining patents relate to programs or technologies that we expect to out-license, assign or abandon in 2010. At this time, we believe that, in particular, only the patent applications related to new indications of usage for ORE1001 (and the in-licensed rights to Millennium patents and patent applications for ORE1001) are material to our business. The patent s and patent applications associated with our drug candidates generally fall into two categories: composition of matter patents and method-of-use patents. Composition of Matter Patents Typically, patents on new compounds are filed before or during the discovery stages of development, when lead compounds are identified as prospective drugs. These are typically composition of matter patents that set forth the invention of a compound described by its chemical composition and other physical or behavioral properties. These patents often claim initially-conceived methods for using the compound. When granted, any commercial use of the compound would likely infringe such patents and thus they provide full protection against generic manufacturers or developers of alternate uses. 9 Method-of-Use Patents By contrast, method-of-use patents describe discoveries of new potential uses of pre-existing compounds, but do not claim the invention of the compound itself. These patents provide protection against infringement by other parties that may seek to use a compound in a way that is claimed in the patent, even if that compound’s composition of matter patent has expired. In this situation, while it may not be infringement to manufacture and sell a particular approved drug that is off patent (i.e. no longer protected by a composition of matter patent), it is likely to be infringement to sell the drug marketed for a use described in a valid method-of-use patent. A perceived industry risk with method-of-use patents is that, without infringing such patents , generic manufacturers can market and sell approved pharmaceuticals for other uses that are not covered by the method-of-use patents; however, doctors may prescribe such generic products for the uses that are claimed by the method-of-use patents. In the cases of our drug candidates, these drugs have not been approved for any use; thus, generic companies seeking to sell and market our drug candidates simply because composition of matter patents have expired would have to go through lengthy clinical trials and approval processes in order to bring these drug candidates to market for any use that would not otherwise infringe our method-of-use patents. We also have licenses granting us exclusive rights in particular issued composition of matter patents and patent applications for ORE1001 that are currently owned by Millennium. Pursuant to these licenses with Millennium, which expire only when the patent life ends, we have the right to participate in the prosecution and other strategic decisions for these patents and patent applications. We currently anticipate that the first patent covered by this agreement will expire in 2017, subject to any extensions that may be granted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”). Due to the fact that several of the patent applications covered by this agreement have not yet been approved by the USPTO, we are currently unable to estimate when the last of the patents covered by this agreement might expire. Patents and patent applications associated with our drug candidates are the primary method for protecting our intellectual property rights. For intellectual property rights that are not eligible for patent protection, we rely on confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protection measures to protect our interests. We take security measures to protect our proprietary know-how and technologies and confidential data and information, including requiring all employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements. In arrangements with third parties (including suppliers) that require the sharing of know-how and other confidential information, our policy is to make available only such information as is relevant to our agreements with such parties, sub ject to appropriate contractual restrictions, including requirements for them to maintain confidentiality and use such information solely in accordance with our agreement. However, such measures may not adequately protect our information. In connection with the sale of our Genomics Assets, we also obtained a perpetual, royalty-free license to the genomics databases we had developed by our former Genomics Division that allow us to use such databases, in the form they existed as of the date of sale, for drug development. Additional Government Regulation As described above, our preclinical and clinical activities are regulated by the FDA. In addition we use third-party manufacturers to produce ORE1001. These third party manufacturers are subject to FDA regulations and inspections. Also, new government requirements may be established that could delay or prevent our drug candidates from further clinical development. We previously maintained laboratory space in Cambridge, Massachusetts, which subjected us to a variety of national, state and local laws and regulations. However, due to our changed business strategy we determined to use outside contractors to perform our laboratory work, and we no longer operate any laboratories. The sublease on our laboratory space expired on June 30, 2009. The regulations of the United States Department of Transportation and the United States Postal Service apply to the transportation of laboratory specimens via surface and air. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety, which require us to follow certain procedures for employees working in our offices. Seasonality Our business is not subject to predictable seasonal variation. 10 Human Resources As of December 31, 2009, we had a total of seven employees, all of whom are full-time and all of whom reside within the United States. Most of our employees are engaged directly in the management and administration of the Company. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and management considers relations with our employees to be good. Available Information We maintain an Internet site at www.orepharma.com. However, material contained on our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge on or through our Internet site our SEC filings, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports we file or furnish pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 11 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Current Business and Industry. We are subject to risk factors common to other small drug development companies and to risks particular to our own situation. Set forth below are what we believe to be the most significant risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. This list is not meant to be all-inclusive. You should carefully consider these risks and all other information included in this Form 10-K, together with all other risks associated with small drug development companies and all risks associated with investing under difficult economic uncertainties. Each of these risk factors could have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations , financial condition and cash flows, as well as adversely affect the value of our Common Stock. We will be required to raise additional funds to finance our operations and remain a going concern; we may not be able to do so when necessary, and/or the terms of any financings may not be advantageous to us. Our operations to date have consumed substantial amounts of cash and we have limited funding available. Negative cash flows from our operations are expected to continue over at least the next several years. Our cash utilization amount is highly dependent on the progress of our product development programs, particularly, the results of our preclinical and clinical studies, the cost timing and outcomes of regulatory approval for our product candidates, the terms and conditions of our contracts with service providers for these programs, and the rate of recruitment of participants in our clinical trials. We have made and are continuing to make substantial efforts to reduce our rate of cash usage and we believe that existing cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities available-for-sale, the anticipated receipt of $0.4 million relating to the promissory note from Nerveda and our ongoing cash conservation efforts, including the subsequent settlement agreement with the State of Maryland to reduce the amount due on the outstanding loan, grant and interest, but not taking into account our potential obligations with regard to the guarantees on the two leases in Gaithersburg, MD, will enable us to support our operations into the first quarter of 2011, including the costs of the currently ongoing Phase Ib/IIa clinical trial for ORE1001. There can be no assurance, however, t hat we will be successful in our continuing cash conservation efforts, the full collection of our outstanding note receivable, attracting additional financing, or in resolving the lease guarantee obligations in a manner favorable to us. Furthermore, there is no assurance if we complete our clinical trial of ORE1001, that the results will be satisfactory or will enable us to successfully out-license ORE1001. We may seek to raise funds through public or private financing, strategic partnerships or other arrangements. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our current stockholders and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. If we raise funds through collaborative or licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish, on terms that are not favorable to us, rights to some of our technologies or product candidates that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize. There is no assurance that funding will be available or will be on terms acceptable to us or to our stockholders. If we are unable to obtain necessary financing, or financing on favorable terms, when needed, our business would materially suff er and we may not be able to continue to develop our drug candidates and acquire additional drug candidates or other assets, and it may be necessary for us to substantially reduce or discontinue our operations. We are currently engaged in litigation related to our guarantees on two property leases. We have been sued by the landlords of two properties in Gaithersburg, MD related to our guarantees of performance of two leases held by a former subsidiary that we sold in 2006. The landlords assert that the tenant has ceased paying rent and that we are liable for those continuing lease payments as the guarantor of the leases. We estimate that our total liability could exceed $4 million in the event we are required to make the lease payments through the end of both the lease terms. In addition, the lease on one of the facilities requires the lessee to refit the building to its original state as of the date of the lease, subject to certain conditions, at the option of the landlord. We are currently unable to estimate the potential cost of this refit, were we to be required to fulfill the obligation; however, we believe any such cost would likely be material. We intend to contest these claims vigorously and to pursue the parties that we believe should be held responsible for these obligations; however, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our legal defenses or in our attempts to force the appropriate parties to pay. In the event we are forced to pay a substantial portion of these claims, our business could be forced into insolvency. 12 Our business is dependent on the successful development of our drug candidates. Similar to other small drug development companies, we have a limited number of drug candidates and our business is dependent on their success. We currently have four drug candidates in our portfolio; however, our primary effort is focused on our lead drug candidate, ORE1001. If we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize ORE1001, it is unlikely that we will have sufficient resources to develop the other drug candidates currently in our pipeline and be able to acquire or invest in additional drug candidates in the future. Small drug development companies with drug candidates in the testing stages, like us, face numerous risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: · whether they can successfully conduct preclinical and clinical testing of their drug candidates and whether such testing produces results sufficiently positive to support entering into out-licensing or other commercial arrangements with third parties; · whether they can design protocols and recruit sufficient subjects with the right characteristics and conduct clinical testing to adequately prove the safety and therapeutic effectiveness of their drug candidates at a cost acceptable to the company; · whether testing of their drug candidates demonstrates acceptable therapeutic effect; · whether testing of their drug candidates reveals unanticipated safety issues or undesirable side effects; · whether regulatory review and approval by the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory authorities can be timely and successfully completed; · whether their drug candidates appear to have sufficient potential economic return to interest investors and/or commercial partners; · whether sufficient funding is available to operate the company and to conduct the necessary testing and clinical trials; and · whether commercial partners are successful in developing and commercializing any drug candidates and whether such drug candidates produce sufficient revenue to pay any third party license fees associated with those drug candidates, support the companies and provide a financial return to their stockholders. In addition to the foregoing, our drug candidates are subject to additional risks and uncertainties which include, but are not limited to: · whether we experience difficulties or delays in the initiation, progress or completion of clinical trials for our drug candidates, including ORE1001, whether caused by competition, adverse events, investigative site initiation rates, patient enrollment rates, regulatory issues or other factors; · whether the clinical trials demonstrate that ORE1001 is a safe and effective treatment for diseases of commercial interest; · whether the safety and/or efficacy results of the ORE1001 trials support making the investment necessary to develop and file an NDA in the United States or any other country; and · whether an NDA is approved by the FDA or any other regulatory authority. Adverse outcomes with regard to any of the foregoing risks and uncertainties could cause a drug candidate to fail, either technically, economically or commercially, and such failure could deplete or exhaust our resources. 13 We may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to continue to operate. Prior to late-stage clinical testing, smaller drug development companies often must out-license or otherwise partner a drug candidate to or with a larger company with more financing and resources because smaller companies lack the resources necessary to conduct late-stage clinical testing, which is very expensive and time consuming, and manufacture and commercialize the product. Because other funding available to small drug development companies is difficult and expensive to obtain in the current economic climate, we will face significant competition from other small drug development companies in our attempt to interest larger companies in our drug candidates. This competitive environment could force us to out-license or otherwise partner our drug candidates at ea rlier stages and to accept less compensation. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete commercial arrangements for our drug candidates that will sustain our continuing operations. There are numerous risks associated with the commercialization of drug candidates. If ORE1001 or any of our other drug candidates is commercialized, there are additional risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to: · whether the government, private health insurers and other third-party payors will provide sufficient coverage or reimbursement for products derived from our drug candidates; · whether such products will achieve sufficient acceptance by the medical community; · whether alternative or more effective drug candidates or treatment strategies are developed; and · whether insurance covering our drug candidates will sufficiently cover product liability claims. Adverse outcomes with regard to any of the foregoing risks and uncertainties would hinder or prevent the successful commercialization of ORE1001 or any of our other drug candidates and could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Because our drug candidates and our development and collaboration efforts depend on our intellectual property rights, adverse events affecting such rights would harm our ability to commercialize our drug candidates. Our success will depend to a large degree on our own, our licensors’ and potential partners’ ability to obtain and defend patents for our drug candidates. The patent positions of drug development companies, including our patent position, involve complex legal and factual questions. Specific risks and uncertainties that we face in the area of patent exclusivity include, but are not limited to: · whether the pending patent applications we have filed, or to which we have licensed rights, result in issued patents and the length of time it takes to obtain issued patents; · whether the claims of any patents which are issued on our pending applications provide commercially meaningful protection or value; · whether the patents licensed or issued to us provide adequate exclusivity for all aspects of our proprietary technology; · whether other companies challenge patents issued or licensed to us; and · whether the patent protection available is deemed adequate protection by our commercial partners to invest in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. Adverse outcomes with regard to any of the foregoing risks and uncertainties could have a detrimental impact on the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. 14 We may need to initiate patent enforcement litigation or be subject to future infringement claims. Various organizations, including companies, academic institutions and non-profit institutions are developing drug candidates. Many of these drug candidates are subject to the same evolving legal standards and related uncertainties about patent protection. Therefore, it may be necessary for us to initiate litigation to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We may not have the resources to initiate such litigation, and if we do, we may not prevail in such litigation. In addition, we may be the subject of patent infringement claims raised by other parties and we could incur substantial litigation costs to defend ourselves in such infringement suits even if we are ultimately successful in defending against such litigation. Risks and Uncertainties Related to our Sold or Discontinued Businesses. We remain subject to outstanding obligations with respect to our sold or discontinued businesses. We previously conducted a genomics business, a preclinical business, a drug repositioning business and, on a smaller scale, a molecular diagnostic business. In most cases, when we sold or discontinued these businesses, we assigned the leases for the space required to conduct these businesses, but remain liable to the landlord with regard to several properties if the assignees of such properties fail to timely make rental payments or otherwise breach the terms of such leases. Such leases expire through December 2013 and at December 31, 2009 represented a potential aggregate contingent liability of $8.3 million (excluding the related genomics business lease under which the landlord agreed to release us from liability). We also accepted promissory notes in partial payment of the sales price for two of our sold or discontinued businesses, of which $0.4 million remains outstanding as of December 31, 2009 and is due in June 2010. Therefore, risks and uncertainties applicable to our sold or discontinued businesses include, but are not limited to: · whether the remaining amount under the outstanding promissory note will be paid in full and without dispute when due; · whether claims will be made against us for any indemnity provided to purchasers or by any customer or supplier of the sold or discontinued businesses; and · whether the assignees of the various leases will make rental payments and otherwise comply with the terms of such leases for the balance of the lease terms, or if any of them default, whether we will be able to limit any of our resulting lease liability. As described elsewhere in “Risk Factors”, we have recently been sued by the landlords of two properties in Gaithersburg, MD related to our guarantees of performance of two leases held by a former subsidiary that we sold in 2006. In the event we are forced to pay a substantial portion of the asserted claims, our business could be forced into insolvency. General Business Risks and Risks Related to Our Common Stock. We have a history of operating losses that could continue for some time. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception, including losses of $8.4 million in 2009 and $22.5 million in 2008. At December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $381.2 million. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred by both our ongoing business, as well as businesses we have sold. These costs have exceeded our revenue and we expect to incur additional losses in the future. Our Common Stock has been delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market and we may be unable to achieve another public listing. Our Common Stock was suspended from trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market on March 25, 2010 for failure to meet the $1 minimum bid price required for continued listing and will be delisted. We are currently pursuing a public listing on the OTC Bulletin Board or, if we are unable to achieve that, the “Pink Sheets”. We can offer no assurances that we will be successful in our efforts to achieve another public listing for our Common Stock. 15 We may not be able to hire or retain key officers or employees that we need to implement our business strategy and develop our drug candidates. Due to our efforts to reduce cash usage, we have had to significantly reduce our workforce. These changes could have potential negative effects on our operations. Additionally, these workforce reductions combined with the uncertainty of our future could make it difficult to retain and recruit qualified personnel as we continue to develop our drug candidates. The competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the loss of services of certain personnel or our inability to attract additional personnel when needed could adversely affect our business. Future financings and the issuance of significant equity-based compensation may cause existing stockholders to experience dilution. We may need to seek additional financing. If this additional financing is obtained through the issuance of equity securities, debt convertible into equity or options or warrants to acquire equity securities, our existing stockholders could experience significant dilution upon the issuance, conversion or exercise of such securities. Likewise, in order to hire and retain personnel, we may be required to issue significant amounts of equity-based compensation, which could, among others, take the form of restricted stock and options to acquire equity securities. The issuance of the restricted stock or the exercise of such options could also cause our existing stockholders to experience dilution. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 