ITEM 1A. Risk Factors ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments ITEM 2. Properties ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II ITEM 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities ITEM 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures ITEM 9B. Other Information PART III ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant ITEM 11. Executive Compensation ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Matters ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements and Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K SIGNATURES Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm—Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Report of Independent Registered Accounting Firm—Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three years ended December 31, 2006 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the three years ended December 31, 2006 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years ended December 31, 2006 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 2 PART I This Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”) contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future results of Gene Logic Inc. (“Gene Logic”) that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which Gene Logic operates and its business and the beliefs and assumptions of the management of Gene Logic. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed in this Form 10-K under the section entitled “Risk Factors”. Gene Logic undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in management’s expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements are based. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to “Gene Logic,” “Gene Logic Laboratories Inc.,” “Gene Logic Ltd.,” “Gene Logic K.K.,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Gene Logic Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Gene Logic®, BioExpress®, ToxExpress®, ASCENTA® and Genesis Enterprise System® are registered trademarks of Gene Logic. ToxShield™ is a trademark of Gene Logic. GeneChip® is a registered trademark of Affymetrix, Inc. Viagra® is a registered trademark of Pfizer, Inc. Evista® is a registered trademark of Eli Lilly & Co. Hytrin® is a registered trademark of Abbott Laboratories. ITEM 1. BUSINESS CORPORATE HISTORY Gene Logic Inc. was incorporated in September 1994 as a Delaware corporation and commenced operations in 1996. In 1997, we completed our initial public offering. Our stock is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol “GLGC”. In 1998, we purchased Oncormed, Inc., which brought us new expertise in tissue sample management and use of microarray technologies. In 2003, we purchased TherImmune Research Corporation, renamed it Gene Logic Laboratories Inc. and subsequently referred to it in our SEC filings as our Preclinical Division. We sold Gene Logic Laboratories on December 15, 2006, to a privately held company. In 2004, we acquired certain technologies from Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which, in combination with our genomics databases and proprietary software, are the basis for our current pharmaceutical development business. We are headquartered in Gaithersburg, Maryland. Our principal executive offices are located at 50 West Watkins Mill Road, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20878, and our telephone number is (301) 987-1700. Our Internet site is www.genelogic.com. Material contained on our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. OVERVIEW In 2004, Gene Logic created a pharmaceutical development division (known as our Drug Repositioning division) within the Company to identify and develop new or expanded uses for small molecule therapeutics. Based on advances in our pharmaceutical development division and changes in our Genomics business, and after recently concluding a comprehensive review of our strategy, we have decided to focus our resources on becoming a pharmaceutical development company. We are now building a therapeutic pipeline by applying our proprietary drug indication discovery platform to find new and expanded uses for drug candidates supplied by major pharmaceutical companies with whom we have drug development partnerships. We believe this strategy is the best way to create value for shareholders. In 2005 and 2006, we entered into drug repositioning and development (“drug development”) partnerships with Pfizer, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Eli Lilly and Co., and NV Organon. Our partners provide us with drug candidates that have already been assessed as safe in human clinical trials, and whose development for their original indications has been discontinued. Our drug development partnerships are generally structured to provide us with milestone payments for repositioned drug candidates that our partners return to clinical development for indications that we have identified, and long-term value in the form of royalties or other co-ownership positions. 3 We apply, at our own expense, our drug indication discovery platform to identify new uses for these clinical-stage drug candidates. This platform consists of genomics databases and bioinformatics software developed by Gene Logic over the past 10 years, and biological screening technologies acquired from Millennium Pharmaceuticals and which subsequently have undergone further development. In 2006, we began evaluating more than 40 drug candidates for our drug development partners. Based on our experience to date, we have been able to develop alternative indication hypotheses for 25%-33% of the candidates for which evaluation is complete. Some of the candidates for which we have found new indications have or will progress to in vivo efficacy models to evaluate and support their suitability for re-entering clinical trials for the proposed new indications. For the candidates that will shortly begin in vivo efficacy studies, our partners have agreed to fund a portion of the costs associated with these studies. We expect that some portion of the drug candidates will have successful outcomes in the in vivo tests and will be selected by our partners to re-enter clinical trials, but we do not yet have sufficient data to estimate the rate of clinical trial re-entry. We do not expect any of these drug candidates to re-enter clinical trials, if at all, until after 2007. In the event that a partner chooses not to pursue development of a candidate for which we find a new indication, we may seek to acquire the repositioned candidate and may choose to further develop it ourselves or outlicense it to third parties. For example, in 2006, we acquired certain rights from Millennium Pharmaceuticals to a drug candidate for which we have identified potential new indications. From 1996 through 2006, our business was primarily devoted to developing and commercializing proprietary genomic and toxicogenomic databases, toxicogenomic services, software tools and other services. The Genomics services we provide enable customers worldwide to discover and prioritize drug targets, identify biomarkers, predict toxicity and understand mechanisms of toxicity, and understand mechanisms of action of specific compounds. In 2006, we began to redirect our Genomics Division in response to our customers’ shifting their research activities from early-stage drug discovery into later-stage development and validation efforts and a resulting decline in sales of our Genomics licenses. In August, we took steps to reduce the staffing and expense levels in this business. We examined the business for new avenues to create value and concluded that our commercially demonstrated expertise in biomarker discovery and validation could be used as a potential new platform for molecular diagnostics development. As a result, we have engaged outside financial advisors to identify strategic alternatives for our Genomics business. We continue to serve new and existing Genomics customers. In December 2006, we sold our Preclinical Division. The Preclinical Division provided contract research services to assess the safety and pharmacologic effects of compounds to support regulatory submissions for human clinical trials. We decided to sell the Preclinical Division because the business provided insufficient strategic or synergistic advantage to our pharmaceutical development, genomics or molecular diagnostic efforts. The sale included four of our leased facilities and the transfer of approximately 200 employees. SCIENTIFIC AND INDUSTRY BACKGROUND The Drug Discovery and Development Process The process of drug development is expensive, time consuming and risky. On average it takes 13 years from the beginning of the discovery effort to get a drug to market and, while research and development costs have been doubling every five years, success rates for getting drugs to market have been flat or declining. Today, drug discovery and development in the United States generally consists of the following steps: · Discovery. Discovery is the process of identifying new biological targets and the compounds that can affect them. Targets must be identified, prioritized and validated. Gene expression data has been very useful in target identification and prioritization, but the process of target validation remains tedious, expensive and time-consuming. Through lead discovery and lead optimization, compounds that can affect identified targets are identified, tested, analyzed, modified and optimized, using information about potential toxicity, absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion. · Preclinical Testing. Compounds that are being considered as drugs must be studied to determine if the compound will have unacceptable toxic effects and if it will be effective in treating the targeted disease or condition. Traditionally, prior to initiating studies in humans, a pharmaceutical company conducts laboratory and animal studies to show evidence of effectiveness and levels of toxicity. More recently, compounds can also be evaluated for potential toxicity using toxicogenomics and effectiveness using pharmacogenomics. The Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) has published a guidance document on the use of pharmacogenomics (the document uses the term pharmacogenomics to encompass pharmacogenomics, pharmacogenetics, and toxicogenomics). Although the FDA accepts pharmacogenomics data as part of an Investigational New Drug Application (“IND”) submission, it does not accept pharmacogenomics data as a substitution for the animal studies required as part of the IND submission process. · Investigational New Drug Application. After completing preclinical testing, the company files an IND application with the FDA for permission to test the compound in humans. The IND application shows results of previous experiments; how, where and by whom the new studies will be conducted; the chemical structure of the compound; how it is thought to work in the body; any toxic effects found in the animal studies; and, how the compound is manufactured. In addition, the IND application must be reviewed and approved for ethical issues and protection of patient rights by the organization’s Institutional Review Board. Once the trials commence, progress reports on clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA. 4 · Clinical Trials. These tests involve a series of studies (Phase I, II and III) involving up to several thousand patients over a multi-year period. These tests assess safety, appropriate dosage, and effectiveness in humans. o Phase I Trials. The initial introduction of an investigational new drug into humans. These studies are primarily small studies designed to determine the safety of compounds, and, if possible, to gain early evidence of effectiveness. o Phase II Trials. Includes the early, controlled, smaller-scale, clinical studies conducted to obtain preliminary data on the effectiveness of the drug for a particular indication or indications in patients with the disease or condition. o Phase III Trials. Larger scale trials after preliminary evidence of effectiveness of the drug has been obtained in Phase 2, to gather additional information about effectiveness and safety needed to evaluate the overall benefit-risk relationship of the drug. Phase 3 studies usually include several hundred to several thousand people. · New Drug Application (“NDA”). Following successful completion of clinical trials, the company files an NDA application with the FDA. FDA approval of an NDA is required before any new drug can be commercialized. · Approval. Once the FDA approves the NDA, the new medicine becomes available for physicians to prescribe. The company must continue to periodically report about the medicine to the FDA, including instances of adverse reactions and appropriate quality-control records. For some medicines, the FDA requires additional studies (Phase IV) to evaluate long-term effects. Drug Repositioning A significant number of drug candidates are halted at some point in the discovery and development process. Candidates may have toxicity issues, lack efficacy in the targeted therapeutic application, be difficult to manufacture, have a narrow market, or be inferior to competitive products, among other issues. Drug repositioning is generally defined by the industry as either (i) finding new uses for drug candidates discontinued during the clinical phases or (ii) finding uses for marketed drugs in additional therapeutic applications. Biological Function and Genomics The cells of all living organisms contain a blueprint or set of instructions for how each cell-type should work. This blueprint is passed from one generation to the next and is encoded in a set of molecules called deoxyribonucleic acid (“DNA”). These DNA molecules are organized into long strands that bind to each other in a twisted double helix structure. DNA molecules can be organized in a vast number of different ways, leading to the production of millions of different protein molecules. These protein molecules are the basic building blocks of all living organisms. Protein molecules are produced from DNA utilizing an intermediate molecule called messenger ribonucleic acid (“mRNA”), which translates DNA into protein form. The specific sequence of DNA that produces a particular protein is called a gene. In humans, every cell contains three billion base pairs of DNA molecules, referred to collectively as the human genome. Only a small percentage of the genome actively produces proteins. Cells are very different from each other in structure and function despite the fact that they share the same genetic blueprint. For example, a brain cell and a muscle cell, although very different, contain exactly the same DNA code. The reason for the difference in structure and function is that not all genes are active in any cell. The type of cell and its function are determined by which genes are actively producing protein and the amount of protein they are producing. In fact, almost any change in the activity of a cell, whether normal or diseased, is reflected in a change in the genes that are producing protein. This pattern of gene activity is called gene expression. The determination of patterns of gene expression is a broad measure of the function of a cell. Microarray technology has accelerated the process of measuring gene expression. Microarray technology uses millions of DNA sequences attached to a solid surface in a dense matrix. Samples of cells and tissues from humans or animals are prepared, and the resulting mRNA is then labeled and exposed to the surface of the microarray. The labeled mRNA adheres to its counterpart DNA on the microarray, resulting in information which can then be analyzed to determine the level and pattern of gene expression within that tissue or cell. While the biology of different normal and diseased cells can be evaluated by analyzing gene expressions patterns, there are also variations of the gene sequence for similar genes from individual to individual. These individual variations in gene sequence, known as SNPs, account for similar proteins working more or less effectively. These differences in protein function lead to individual variations in the effectiveness of drugs, susceptibility to disease, and toxicity of compounds. There may be hundreds or thousands of variations within any gene from one individual to another. There are thought to be about three million significant SNPs in the human genome, although not all of them have yet been discovered and the function for most is not known. These variations are determined by various methods and machines that allow a DNA sequence to be analyzed. 5 Different patterns of gene expression are associated with normal and diseased cells, as well as either the toxic or therapeutic effect that drugs can have on cells. For example, a cancerous tissue can be compared to normal tissue to find aberrant gene activity that is associated with the cancer, and that information can be used to identify biomarkers (a molecular marker associated with a biological function) and targets and to develop drugs to treat the disease. Using information about the human genome to develop drugs is called pharmacogenomics. Normal cells can also be compared to cells that have been treated with a specific compound, to determine if that compound has a toxic effect on cells. Using information about how gene expression patterns vary when chemicals are toxic to tissues is called toxicogenomics. The amount of information that is generated from sequencing three billion base pairs of DNA and using microarrays to look at gene expression patterns in tens of thousands of biological tissues and processes could not be stored and analyzed if it were not for advances in information technology that occurred with the development of computers and the internet. The science of using computers to capture and understand biology is known as bioinformatics. Besides gene expression data, there are other methods to look at biological function. In addition to the traditional methods, new methods are being developed. Some of these include: · In vivo (“in life”) imaging, which is the use of imaging technologies to visually see where potential drugs are attaching to biological targets in animals. This can be done by putting either a label or tag on the compound of interest, injecting the labeled compound into a test animal, and using a machine to see where the labeled compound actually goes. Alternatively, the animal itself can be genetically modified so that a particular biological pathway or target is labeled in the animal. When that biological pathway or target is activated by a test compound, a signal from the tag can be seen using special imaging machines. · In vitro (“in dish”) screening, which is the use of cells grown in culture to evaluate how compounds cause the cells to change or react. There are many different measurements that can be made on the cells. The cells used in these assays can also be genetically modified so they indicate a particular process or pathway in the cell that is being activated. · Metabolomics, which is the measurement of proteins that have been used or changed in performing their function. This information can be used to determine what pathways and biological functions have been active. · Proteomics, which is the measurement of many proteins at once to analyze patterns of protein production and use. Proteomics measures proteins while gene expression measures mRNA. However, proteomics is much more difficult to do because there are millions of rapidly changing types of proteins as compared to tens of thousands of types of mRNA molecules. Gene expression and other methods of looking at biological functions are critical to pharmaceutical companies’ drug development processes. The current model for drug development is based on developing a systematic understanding of biology. Pharmaceutical companies develop drugs by seeking specific proteins that could be therapeutic targets. These companies then seek chemical compounds that could modulate or manipulate the targets in a way that would have a therapeutic effect. Scientists have the ability to screen large libraries of compounds using high-throughput automated systems against biological targets to identify potential therapeutic compounds that will modulate these targets. But, first, scientists must identify the targets, from among the 3,000 to 5,000 human genes that might produce proteins. One efficient way to identify these targets is using gene expression data produced from normal and diseased human tissues as well as from animal models and cell lines. Molecular Diagnostics encompass a variety of technologies and methods for utilizing profiles of DNA and RNA changes in individual patients to facilitate determining what condition a patient has (diagnosis), the likely outcome (prognosis), response to therapy (monitoring), and the best responders to various treatments (personalized medicine). Traditional clinical diagnostic processes involve physicians analyzing patient body fluids or tissues to assess biological functions, usually by analysis of proteins and tissues. Over the past few years, the growth of molecular diagnostics has increased the use of RNA and DNA analysis to assess biological function. Development of new types of molecular markers requires a process of discovery followed by validation in carefully selected patient populations in carefully controlled clinical trials. Such clinical trials may take weeks or years to conduct and results are generally published in peer-reviewed medical journals. Once enough studies are conducted to demonstrate the validity of a new diagnostic, the tests can be offered through laboratories licensed through a state and federal process certified by the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Advisory Committee (“CLIA”). Alternatively, manufacturers of the reagents and systems that are required to perform the diagnostic assay can submit an application to the FDA (510K or PMA) which, if approved, allows them to market products to laboratories and doctors who are licensed to conduct clinical analysis on tests ordered by doctors. In 2007, the FDA published draft recommendations suggesting new regulations on any genetic test that utilizes multiple markers and requires an algorithm to produce a result. While these draft recommendations have not been finalized, if they are, then the FDA would require approval for all tests in this category. 6 OUR BUSINESS We currently conduct our operations through two business segments: the Drug Repositioning Division and the Genomics Division. We are focusing primarily on our Drug Repositioning business and continue to serve new and existing Genomics customers while seeking strategic alternatives for that business. Drug Repositioning Division Gene Logic’s drug repositioning platform provides an efficient and cost-effective approach for systematically uncovering a drug candidate’s biological activity and identifying possible new indications for drug candidates for which development has otherwise been discontinued. The pharmaceutical development process is expensive, time-consuming and risky, with a high failure rate. See “Scientific and Industry Background” above. Billions of dollars are spent annually to identify and develop biologically active compounds that do not ultimately succeed for various reasons, including (i) insufficient effectiveness in treating the disease or condition for which they were designed; (ii) safety and toxicity issues; (iii) patient variability in responding to a drug candidate; and (iv) insufficient potential economic return for the company developing the drug candidate. Pharmaceutical companies have traditionally relied on two mainstream approaches to establish a product pipeline - internal development and product in-licensing. The first approach continues to be time-consuming and expensive while the latter is limited by increased competition between pharmaceutical companies to in-license a finite number of quality drug candidates. Furthermore, in traditional drug development, development of a drug candidate that is determined to have limited effectiveness in human clinical trials for a selected indication will be stopped, even though the compound could be effective in treating other medical conditions. Until now, any alternative uses were most often discovered by serendipity, such as in the cases of Pfizer’s Viagra®, Eli Lilly & Co.’s Evista®, and Abbott’s Hytrin®. Drug repositioning offers pharmaceutical companies a third approach to expanding their drug development pipelines. Gene Logic has the ability to evaluate a drug candidate in less than one year using our drug indication discovery platform, allowing us to quickly and efficiently discover possible new indications for a drug candidate. Following confirmation of the potential new use via in vivo efficacy tests, we believe that some of these candidates will be found suitable for re-entry into clinical development for a new indication. Our Drug Repositioning Division uses a technology platform that integrates technologies acquired from Millennium Pharmaceuticals in 2004 (which we continue to improve) with our core genomic and toxicogenomic capabilities (see below). We have developed partnerships with four pharmaceutical partners in 2005 and 2006, Pfizer, Inc., F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Eli Lilly and Co., and NV Organon. Our agreement with Organon involves co-ownership and co-development of repositioned drug candidates, and it therefore differs substantially from our other agreements. Our other drug repositioning and development agreements vary somewhat as to specific terms (see “Contractual Arrangements” earlier), but generally conform to the following: · We agree with a partner on a group of drug candidates to be evaluated. Our partner provides samples of the candidate and, at our expense, we analyze each candidate using our drug indication discovery platform; · As to drug candidates for which we have identified new uses and that our partners take back into development, we are entitled to receive success-based payments when certain milestones are achieved. The totals range from $60-100+ million per compound and in most cases include the following individual milestones: o Notice of re-initiation of development, o Filing of an Investigational New Drug (“IND”) with the FDA, o Establishment of proof of concept in a Phase II clinical trial, o Commencement of a Phase III clinical trial, and o Receipt of market approval in the U.S., in Europe, or in Japan; and 7 · As to drug candidates returned by our partners to commercial development, we are entitled to receive royalty payments, as a percentage of sales, that range from single- to low double-digits and are generally tiered according to sales volume. In most cases, if our partner decides not to take the drug candidate back into development, we have development rights that would entitle our partner to receive milestone payments and royalties on sales. We may choose to license such candidates to a third party for development, or we may invest in further development to increase a particular candidate’s value prior to outlicensing. We have acquired certain rights from Millennium Pharmaceuticals to a drug candidate for which we have identified potential new indications. We believe that no single technology is adequate to assess the effect of a drug candidate across complex biological processes. Our multi-platform solution allows us to systematically and efficiently evaluate a range of biological activity that potentially may be affected by a drug candidate, including its potential effect on a wide variety of diseases, without requiring a prior disease-specific hypothesis. The technologies we use to develop hypotheses about which diseases a drug candidate may be used to treat include in vivo (in life), in vitro (in dish), in silico (in computer data), and ex vivo (outside organism) assessments of a drug candidate at the DNA, RNA, protein, pathway, and cellular levels. The technologies include: Real-Time In Vivo Imaging - We are using in-licensed technology in conjunction with proprietary protocols and procedures to create an optimal imaging program that allows the pharmacological action of a compound in organs and tissues to be visualized non-invasively using genetically engineered mice. This technology allows us to determine which organs are affected by the compound, timing of the response, and biological pathway information. Ex Vivo Multiplex Bioanalytics - Using sophisticated laboratory automation and proprietary targeted separation and analysis techniques, we can simultaneously measure levels of biomolecules in certain biological fluids collected from a compound-treated animal. By comparing the levels of biomolecules in treated animals to those in normal animals, we can identify activity caused by the compound which may signal potential alternative disease indications. In Vitro Molecular Pharmacology - Powered by sophisticated robotics and software, part of our technology platform allows us to apply a compound to a large number of cell types to identify pathways that may be activated or repressed by the compound. Another technology enables us to apply a compound to cells in a broad panel of cellular assays, each of which represents one or more relevant diseases, to measure the effect of the compound on the diseases. In Silico Biology - Our existing genomics capabilities enable us to find close relatives of the target protein in the genome, major and minor sites of expression of the target in the body, disease conditions that alter the expression of the target, and a host of additional drug target parameters. We use the BioExpress® System and our proprietary algorithms and biostatistical expertise to identify pathways and cell regulatory patterns to understand a compound’s mechanism of activity in any organ of interest. Potential alternative therapeutic uses can then be validated through a study, using an animal model related to the new disease indication, performed either in our laboratories or those of a third-party service provider or by our pharmaceutical partners. In 2006, we began evaluating more than 40 drug candidates for our drug development partners. Based on our experience to date, we have a success rate of 25%-33% in developing new hypotheses. Some of these candidates for which we have found new indications have or will progress to in vivo efficacy models to evaluate and support their suitability for re-entering clinical trials for the proposed new indications. For the candidates that will shortly begin in vivo efficacy studies, our partners have agreed to fund a portion of the costs associated with these studies. We expect that some portion of the drug candidates will have successful outcomes in the in vivo tests and re-enter clinical trials, but we do not yet have sufficient data to estimate the rate of clinical trial re-entry. We do not expect any of these drug candidates to re-enter clinical trials, and we do not expect to derive significant revenue from milestones or royalties from our drug development partnerships, until after 2007. Genomics Division Our Genomics Division includes proprietary gene expression and toxicogenomics databases, toxicogenomics services, software tools, microarray data generation and analysis services (for gene expression and SNP genotyping), and other professional services. These services assist researchers in identifying and characterizing drug targets and biomarkers and can help predict potential human toxicity of drug candidates. Gene expression patterns and biological pathways in disease, genetic abnormalities, and mechanisms involved in drug efficacy and toxicity all help researchers make better informed decisions. 8 Our genomics data are based on gene expression results and clinical data from a collection of over 35,000 diseased and normal human and animal model tissues, as well as primary cells and cell cultures. These samples, together with relevant pathology and clinical data are collected from clinical centers, teaching hospitals, academic medical centers, standard toxicology animal lab studies and, in some instances, commercial providers. The samples in our BioExpress System represent more than 400 separate clinical disease indications with focused collection programs in critical therapeutic areas of greatest market interest, including oncology, cardiovascular, central nervous system, inflammatory and metabolic diseases. The samples in our ToxExpress® System are primarily derived from animal liver, the primary toxicity response site, as well as animal heart and kidney. We isolate and prepare the genetic material from these tissue samples and then analyze the genetic material through a high throughput, automated process using microarrays to determine gene expression. The results of this analysis and the corresponding pathology and clinical or experimental information for each sample are compiled using our software and bioinformatics capabilities, resulting in reference databases and software tools that are the foundation of our Genomics Division. Our Genomics Division currently offers the following services: BioExpress System and Related Products and Services - The BioExpress System is a database that enables drug development researchers to use our data to: (i) investigate human disease and disease progression by identifying and prioritizing disease-associated gene targets through an understanding of gene expression patterns, genetic abnormalities, disease pathways and disease mechanisms of action, (ii) examine the interrelationship between the human genome, disease mechanisms and related individual clinical parameters, and (iii) identify potential disease biomarkers. The database comprises gene expression data derived from normal and diseased human and animal tissues and related pathology and clinical or experimental information about those samples. BioExpress Suites and Custom Suites consist of subsets of BioExpress System data. The ASCENTA® System is a Web-based analysis system that contains selected, curated gene expression data sets from the BioExpress System. Microarray Data Generation and Analysis Services - We offer a growing portfolio of services that enable customers to outsource to us the generation and analysis of gene expression and SNP genotyping information, primarily from customer-supplied biological samples. Our services are designed to deliver high quality, reproducible data in the customer’s preferred format. To provide these services, we use automation, state-of-the-art facilities and our expertise in sample handling, preparation and processing and data analysis. Customers use this information to help make better decisions throughout their drug discovery and development process. ToxExpress System and Related Services - The ToxExpress System is a database consisting of gene expression profiles and associated experimental data from rat and canine tissues as well as rat and human primary hepatocytes. These samples include both normal samples and treated samples (i.e., samples that have been exposed to specific compounds with known toxicity). The information for each treated sample includes a “toxicity profile”, containing time-course, dose and other classical toxicology study information, supplemented with data from studies on primary human liver tissues and cells and other animal model tissues. The ToxExpress System data can be used to develop predictive models and to undertake mechanistic studies on acute and chronic human toxicity. Customers compare our data to theirs to develop risk assessment/management strategies, and to prioritize leads in development. ToxExpress also includes the following related offerings: ToxSuite Datasets, Molecular Mechanism of Toxicity Services, ToxShieldTM Suites, and Custom ToxExpress Services. Genesis Enterprise System® Software - The Genesis Enterprise System Software is our enterprise-wide bioinformatics solution. It is a sophisticated and comprehensive software platform for warehousing, comparing, mining, analyzing and visualizing gene expression and clinical information. This software enables drug development researchers to compile and rapidly assess large data sets (including our proprietary data, customer-derived data and publicly available research data), and contains various tools for conducting sophisticated analyses of gene expression data. In 2006, in response to our customers’ shifting their research activities from early-stage drug discovery into later-stage development and validation efforts, we examined our Genomics Division for new avenues to create value. We concluded that our commercially demonstrated expertise in biomarker discovery and validation could be used as a potential new platform for molecular diagnostics development. We believe that the following capabilities could serve as the basis for more rapid development of biomarker diagnostic products: (i) our substantial clinical network of hospitals and other research institutions with which we have agreements for human sample accrual; (ii) our Biorepository containing more than 17,000 human clinical samples from more than 400 different diseases; (iii) our BioExpress database and related software enabling biomarker prototyping, proof of concept, and specificity testing; and (iv) our GLP data generation capacity to undertake clinical validation studies. As a result, we have engaged outside financial advisors to identify strategic alternatives for our Genomics business. We continue to serve new and existing Genomics customers while we explore this opportunity. 9 CUSTOMERS, SALES, MARKETING AND CUSTOMER SUPPORT During 2006, three Genomics Division customers each accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue. The following table sets forth information on the composition of our total revenue by geographic region for each of the last three fiscal years: Geographic Region For the year ended: North America Pacific Rim Europe December 31, 2006 40% 39% 21% December 31, 2005 34% 40% 26% December 31, 2004 35% 46% 19% We market and sell the services of our Genomics Division primarily to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies based in North America, Japan and Europe. A company in Japan assists us, for a fee, in making sales in Japan and provides marketing advice and support in connection with our Genomics Division. We also maintain customer service support representation in Japan and the United Kingdom. We provide pre- and post-sales support activities to our Genomics customers through our genomics services and software support group, including technical demonstrations, planning and implementation of initial deployment and new and ongoing training, content updates, software upgrades, on-going support and follow-on training. We market and sell the capabilities of our Drug Repositioning Division to pharmaceutical companies based in North America, Japan and Europe. We have a team of business development professionals with diverse pharmaceutical and consulting experience who lead contract negotiations with potential pharmaceutical partners. Once a contract is signed, members of both the technology and business development groups interact with each pharmaceutical partner as required. RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Research and development expenses for the years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $9.9 million, $6.8 million and $2.4 million, respectively. Most of our research and development expenses consist of costs associated with our Drug Repositioning Division and are for the evaluation of customer-supplied drug candidates and ongoing development of our drug indication discovery platform. A smaller portion of our research and development expense consists of general technology and process improvements related to our Genomics Division. This portion of our research and development is focused on developing new applications and licensing or acquiring technologies to serve as platforms for molecular diagnostics, and for the development of new gene expression, SNP genotyping, and other molecular-based solutions. We continue to research methods to improve the production of our gene expression data and decrease the size requirements for tissue samples. 10 CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS Drug Repositioning Division We have drug development partnerships to identify new indications for discontinued clinical-stage drug candidates from our pharmaceutical partners. Under these agreements, we do not receive up-front revenue. We are entitled to receive milestone payments in the event that a drug candidate for which we have found a new indication is returned to a partners’ development pipeline at its election. If our partner begins commercial sales of the repositioned drug, we would be entitled to a percentage of royalties based on actual sales or other compensation. Each partner has agreed to provide a specific number of drug candidates during the term of the applicable agreement, from which we can select those to be introduced into our drug repositioning pipeline. We will evaluate those drug candidates at our expense and will inform our partners of any new possible indications we identify for these drug candidates. In some instances, our partners have the right to elect to have us conduct mutually agreed upon in vivo model validation studies based on our hypotheses, which may be partially or entirely at our or our partners’ expense. Drug candidates with new indications would then be returned to a partner’s pipeline at its sole election. If a partner elects not to pursue a new use we identify, we may, in some instances, have the option to develop, license and commercialize such use, subject to payments of success-based milestones and royalties to our partner. Unlike our other agreements, under the agreement with Organon, both companies are equal owners of drug candidates for which we find new uses and may decide to jointly develop and commercialize the drug candidate. If we acquire development rights as to a given drug candidate, we could elect to either (i) out-license the development rights to such drug candidate without further development on our part, or (ii) continue to develop the drug candidate, either through our own resources or with a development partner, to a point where we can more effectively out-license the drug candidate to a third-party for final development and commercialization. We do not expect to derive any significant revenue from milestones or royalties under these agreements until after 2007. Genomics Division We expect that approximately half of our Genomics Division revenue in 2007 will continue to be derived from subscription agreements. Our customers enter into multi-year or perpetual license agreements for our larger databases (and annual, multi-year, or perpetual license agreements for certain of our smaller databases) to obtain non-exclusive access to all or parts of our gene expression and toxicogenomics databases. These agreements may be for a full database or a portion of a database tailored to a customer’s needs and most relevant to their drug development strategy. One of our subscription agreements contains requirements for the addition of certain data that, if not met, could result in a reduction in license fees. Pricing for these subscriptions is generally dependent upon such factors as the database solution being offered, the term of the license, the extent and type of use by the customer, the number of users at the customer site, the scope of installation at the customer’s site, requirements for customization, any content requirements and whether we provide any custom analysis or data management services. Contracts under these subscription agreements may be terminated by either party if the other party breaches the agreement and fails to cure such breach within any applicable cure period or in the event of a bankruptcy of either party. In certain circumstances, customers may acquire a perpetual license to use certain information from our databases. Pricing for perpetual licenses to data is generally dependent upon such factors as the data solution being offered, the extent and type of use by the customer and the number of users at the customer site. Some of our customers purchasing perpetual licenses continue as customers purchasing additional services, including licenses to other databases and microarray data generation and analysis services. We expect that approximately half of our revenue will be derived from a combination of microarray data generation and analysis and other professional services and solutions. The particular type and scope of the services we provide are based on the customer’s needs. Pricing for these services is generally dependent upon such factors as the number of samples or compounds analyzed, the type of analysis performed, the starting material provided by the customer, the type and source of GeneChip® microarray used for the services and requirements for customization. Generally, contracts for services may be terminated by either party if the other party breaches the agreement and fails to cure such breach within any applicable cure period or in the event of a bankruptcy of either party. COMPETITION Drug Repositioning Division Currently, an increasing number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are evaluating whether to implement internal repositioning programs for their own drug candidates. In addition, there are companies attempting to reposition drug candidates on behalf of drug development partners, including Melior, KineMed, Perlegen Sciences, Inc., Vanda Pharmaceuticals Inc. and CombinatoRX Inc. We are not aware of any existing competitor that has developed, or is in the process of developing, a comparable suite of technologies to that employed by us. Other companies, some of whom are not doing repositioning work, have individual technologies that could directly compete with components of our drug repositioning technology platform. 11 Genomics Division Our Genomics Division competes with internal capabilities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and universities worldwide which may choose to use genomics technologies to generate for their own use similar sets of gene expression or SNP data. To a lesser extent, we also compete with commercial providers who offer less extensive and, in at least one instance, population-specific data (deCODE genetics, Inc.). In addition, at least one privately held company that we know of (Iconix Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) licenses an alternative toxicogenomics database and provides predictive toxicogenomics services that compete with our toxicogenomics services. In addition, we face increasing competition from a variety of public and private companies in the area of microarray data generation and analysis services, including Expression Analysis, Inc. and Clinical Data, Inc. However, we currently believe there are no commercially available gene expression databases of comparable size and scale to that of our BioExpress and ToxExpress System databases. Our services compete on the basis of: scope and quality of services offered; price; speed of delivery of specific services; strength of reputation; size of our databases; alternative technologies; expertise and experience in specific technological and scientific areas; subject focus of genomics and toxicogenomics data sets and technologies; our ability to acquire, handle, process, store, analyze and present complex gene expression data and clinical annotation information in a timely, quality controlled and accurate manner; and, our ability to integrate proprietary gene expression data with publicly available and other third-party generated data sets. SUPPLIERS Drug Repositioning Division In our Drug Repositioning Division, we have a non-exclusive license and sublicense from Promega Corporation (the “Promega License”) to use the luminescence technology we use in our real-time in vivo imaging. The term of the agreement is for the life of the relevant patents, unless earlier terminated upon breach by either party, bankruptcy or termination of Promega’s rights by an academic institution that holds certain rights to a portion of the technology (in which case we would seek separate licenses from Promega for its technology and directly from the institution). Under the terms of the agreement, we paid Promega an initial fee and we pay Promega an annual license maintenance fee and royalties on luminescent assay reagents we use that are not purchased from Promega. We also have a non-exclusive license with Xenogen Corporation (the “Xenogen License”), for which we pay an annual license fee to use the Xenogen Imaging Technology and certain related software in connection with our use of certain imaging equipment we purchased from Xenogen for use in performing real-time in vivo imaging. The term of the Xenogen license ends in 2008, with a three year renewal option, subject to earlier termination if we fail to make timely payment or otherwise breach the terms of the agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify Xenogen and certain other persons and entities for liability resulting from our use of the technology. Genomics Division To build our genomics and toxicogenomics databases that are the basis of our Genomics Division, we enter into collaboration agreements from time to time with institutions or individuals (including a few commercial providers), to obtain specific tissues, blood samples and cell lines and associated experimental or clinical data. We pay fees under these agreements and, in the case of non-commercial providers, we may provide access to software and to certain gene expression data and financial support for the collaborator’s research. Non-commercial collaboration agreements typically have a term of two to three years, subject to automatic renewal unless earlier terminated by either party. Since we’ve already compiled a broad base of general data, our efforts are currently focused on the procurement of special, high-value, difficult-to-obtain and rare samples. We continue to believe that none of these collaboration agreements are individually material to our operations because any one can be replaced on comparable terms with another provider. To generate the gene expression data in our genomics and toxicogenomics databases and to provide microarray data generation and analysis and other services and solutions as part of our Genomics Division, we use Affymetrix, Inc. (“Affymetrix”) microarrays, reagents, instrumentation and software. Our 2006 supply and license agreement with Affymetrix expired on December 31, 2006. On January 9, 2007, but effective January 1, 2007, we entered into (a) a new three-year Biotech Access Agreement governing our purchase and use of Affymetrix microarrays and related products for internal research and to generate data for databases and (b) a new two-year Service Provider Agreement governing the purchase and use by us of microarrays to provide data generation and analysis and other services and solutions to individual customers. Under terms of the new agreements, we are obligated to grant to Affymetrix a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to certain inventions we make related to their microarray technology and, under certain circumstances, to offer to negotiate with them a non-exclusive, royalty-bearing license for certain inventions we make related to sample processing. The Biotech Access Agreement requires payment of an annual access fee of $50,000, subject to waiver for any year in which we are an Affymetrix Service Provider, and sets prices for the products, reagents and instrumentation we purchase from Affymetrix. The Service Provider Agreement (but not the BioTech Access Agreement) is terminable by either party if the other party defaults under the agreement and, after written notice from the non-defaulting party, fails to cure the default during the applicable cure period. 12 In the past, we also purchased from Affymetrix a reagent made by Enzo BioChem, Inc. (“Enzo”). As first reported in 2004, in late 2003 Enzo terminated its distribution agreement with Affymetrix and filed suit against Affymetrix alleging in part that Affymetrix had agreements with us and other named customers to supply the reagent for use in potential violation of their rights. Subsequently, Affymetrix denied Enzo’s claims, filed counterclaims and also introduced a new alternative reagent, which we are using. The lawsuit is currently in the discovery and pretrial hearing stage. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS As of December 31, 2006, in our Genomics Division, we have exclusive ownership or license rights to 58 issued patents, 26 of which are United States patents, and 98 patent applications, 47 of which are United States utility (non-provisional) or provisional patent applications. As of December 31, 2006, in our Drug Repositioning Division, we have exclusive ownership or license rights to 8 issued patents, all of which are United States patents, and 25 patent applications, 11 of which are United States utility (non-provisional) or provisional patent applications; except for one application, all of these patents and applications relate to either of two compounds or their potential uses. We do not at this time believe that any single patent or application is individually material to our business. With respect to proprietary know-how and products and processes for which patents are of questionable value or are difficult or impossible to obtain or enforce, we rely on confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protection measures to protect our interests. We take security measures to protect our proprietary know-how and technologies and confidential data, including requiring all employees, consultants and customers to enter into confidentiality agreements. In arrangements with our customers or suppliers that require the sharing of processes and data, our policy is to make available only such data as is relevant to our agreements with such customers and suppliers, subject to appropriate contractual restrictions, including requirements for them to maintain confidentiality and use such processes and data solely for our benefit. However, such measures may not adequately protect our data. In the areas of genomics, toxicogenomics and bioinformatics technologies related to these capabilities, we seek patent rights primarily to protect our freedom to operate, and to obtain whatever exclusivity may be available under a given patent that relates to our main service offerings. We apply for patent protection on methods of obtaining and using genomic information and on databases, software, and user interface tools relating to the management and use of such information. Our applications may also contain claims to methods of identifying and using gene expression profiles and genetic markers, claims to novel genes and gene fragments, and claims to novel uses for known genes or gene fragments. We also actively file patent applications on technologies and methodologies we have developed in the field of toxicogenomics. Our toxicogenomics patent applications contain claims that cover methods of predicting toxicity, toxicity markers, statistical models, and other inventions related to our toxicogenomics program. We have a worldwide, nonexclusive, fully paid, non-transferable license for the life of certain patents from Incyte Corporation (“Incyte”) (formerly Incyte Genomics, Inc.), obtained in connection with the settlement of certain litigation in 2001, to use i) a process that Affymetrix recommends we use in the preparation of samples for use with the Affymetrix GeneChip platform; and ii) certain patent rights related to the development and use of certain types of databases. The samples and process may only be used to generate gene expression data for use in research and development. The license may be terminated by Incyte under certain limited circumstances if we: i) use certain patents outside of the permitted field of use, or induce another party to do so; ii) violate certain agreements regarding any future disputes between the parties involving these patents; or iii) violate the confidentiality provisions of the agreement. If Incyte were to terminate the license agreement on the grounds that we materially breached such agreement and if we dispute such claim, the party in whose favor the court finds would be entitled to an agreed-upon payment from the losing party. Likewise, if we claim Incyte has materially breached the License Agreement and if Incyte disputes such claim, the party in whose favor the court finds would be entitled to an agreed-upon payment from the losing party. Under the terms of our supply agreement with Affymetrix described above under “Suppliers,” we have the right to use Affymetrix products, software, systems and database patent rights to generate and use databases, license the data in such databases to third parties and provide sample processing services to generate and analyze data for a customer’s internal use for research and development. In addition, we are obligated to grant to Affymetrix a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to certain inventions we make related to their microarray technology and, under certain circumstances, to offer to negotiate with them a non-exclusive, royalty-bearing license for certain inventions we make related to sample processing. 13 For our Drug Repositioning Division, we have acquired or obtained licenses to use certain intellectual property rights and technologies from Millennium, Xenogen, Promega and others, and we will, from time to time, continue to acquire and obtain licenses to use intellectual property rights and technologies as needed for our Drug Repositioning Division. We will also pursue patents, where appropriate, on new enabling technology used in our Drug Repositioning Division. Certain agreements with partners having rights to known drugs, under which our Drug Repositioning Division seeks new therapeutic uses for such compounds, provide us with certain intellectual property rights to those new uses. Where such agreements permit, we will pursue broad patent protection for selected new uses that we have found for known drugs. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Drug Repositioning Division Our Drug Repositioning Division operations in our Cambridge, Massachusetts facilities are subject to a variety of national, state and local laws and regulations, including the Animal Welfare Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”). These regulations establish the standards for the humane treatment, care, use and handling of animals by research facilities. In addition, our Cambridge facilities are registered with the United States National Institutes of Health Office of Protection for Research Risks (“OPRR”) and comply with The Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare (“OLAW”) regulations. Our Cambridge, Mass. facilities maintain standard operating procedures and the documentation necessary to comply with such regulations. Our Cambridge, facility is subject to regulation under the Ordinance for the use of Laboratory Animals for the City of Cambridge which is enforced by the Commissioner of Laboratory Animals. Under this ordinance we maintain standard operating procedures and the documentation necessary to comply with such regulations. Genomics Division Our Genomics Division depends upon our continued access to and use of tissue samples and related clinical data, which are affected by regulations governing disclosure of confidential personal data, such as regulations governing the disclosure of medical information, issued by the Department of Health and Human Services under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), and applicable regulations of Canada and the European Union. We monitor our procedures to ensure that such procedures comply with applicable privacy regulations. We also perform certain experiments in our Genomics Division which comply with applicable laboratory standards as prescribed by the Good Laboratory Practice (“GLP”) regulations promulgated by the FDA. The acquisition and use of human tissue by us is generally subject to regulations imposed by the Internal Review Boards of the organizations providing such materials and to the requirements for patient informed consent. General All of our laboratories are subject to licensing and regulation under federal, state and local laws relating to hazard communication and employee right-to-know regulations, the handling, storage and disposal of medical specimens, laboratory materials and hazardous waste and radioactive materials and the safety and health of laboratory employees. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety, which require us follow certain procedures including providing ongoing training and proper equipment for employees working in our facilities. Our employees receive initial and periodic training focusing on compliance with applicable hazardous materials regulations and health and safety guidelines. The use of controlled substances in our laboratory testing facilities is regulated in the United States by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) and relevant state and local agencies. All of our laboratories using controlled substances for testing purposes are subject to licensure by the DEA and applicable state agencies. The regulations of the United States Department of Transportation and the United States Postal Service apply to the transportation of laboratory specimens via surface and air. 14 SEASONALITY Customer purchasing patterns do not show significant predictable seasonal variation. HUMAN RESOURCES As of December 31, 2006, we had 151 employees, consisting of 150 within the United States, and 1 who resides in Japan. Most of our employees are engaged directly in research, development, production and marketing and sales activities. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and management considers relations with our employees to be good. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We maintain a Web site at www.genelogic.com. However, material contained on our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. We make available free of charge on or through our Web site our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports we file or furnish pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 15 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. Set forth below are risks and uncertainties we have identified as material that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K and that could have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Drug Repositioning Division Our platform may not yield sufficient new indications and thus measurable successes to gain market acceptance. We may not succeed in achieving significant market acceptance of any of our technologies used in drug repositioning activities because the technologies we use and our approach to drug repositioning may fail to generate sufficient new indications that are accepted for clinical trial re-entry or that are of sufficient commercial value to interest our partners. This outcome would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and market valuation. Others are developing and could provide drug repositioning research and services that could compete with us and jeopardize our business and financial objectives. Pharmaceutical companies and other companies and research organizations are developing technologies for better understanding the complex biological processes affected by compounds and selecting, purposing and repurposing compounds. These parties may elect to use such technologies internally, in lieu of using our services, or may successfully offer such services based on their technologies in competition against us. While we have license rights related to certain of the technologies that comprise the technology platform for our Drug Repositioning Division, we do not currently have issued patents to any of the technologies we use other than our genomics databases and software and our license rights to the other technologies are generally non-exclusive. We will seek patents or other protection on other elements of the technologies we use to find new indications for drug candidates. We may not be able to obtain adequate protection for these technologies or the technologies may become obsolete. Competition for our services could cause us to be unable to get sufficient compounds to achieve our business objectives, and could otherwise jeopardize our ability to achieve our financial objectives, in drug development. The time required to present and negotiate our drug repositioning agreements is lengthy; we may spend considerable resources on unsuccessful sales efforts or may not be able to negotiate and enter into drug development partnership agreements on the schedule we anticipate. Our drug development business strategy depends upon our ability to establish collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical partners to reposition candidates that have been assessed as safe in human clinical trials but for which development for the original indication has been discontinued. If we are unable to establish partnerships with a sufficient number of pharmaceutical companies, we may not be able to obtain enough drug candidates to meet our business objectives. Our ability to obtain new drug development partnerships depends upon our ability to convince them that our drug indication discovery platform can increase productivity for their drug development efforts. Intentional repurposing of candidates is a relatively new activity. Pharmaceutical companies need to be persuaded of the potential of this approach. In addition, pharmaceutical companies do not generally have specific individuals responsible for managing discontinued candidates. The time required to present our proposals for drug repositioning and negotiate agreements is substantial (often 12 months or more) and we may expend substantial effort with no assurance that a new agreement will result on terms acceptable to us or that provide sufficient opportunities for us. Consolidations of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies could also affect the timing and progress of our Drug Repositioning Division sales efforts. We may be unable to obtain access to sufficient numbers of acceptable candidates for evaluation by our platform to meet our business objectives Our business plan is dependent on having sufficient acceptable compounds available to evaluate, to provide us with sufficient opportunities to find compounds with alternative indications that are appealing to our partners or to us for further development. At present, we can only obtain access to these compounds through our partners. There are challenges to obtaining new drug development partnership agreements, as described above. Further, even after we enter into an agreement with a partner, it may take time for that partner to identify acceptable candidates it is willing to make available to us which may further limit the numbers, or timely availability, of compounds we can use to meet our business and financial objectives. At present, while we have the capacity to evaluate greater numbers of compounds, such compounds are not available under existing agreements. Our achievement of our business objectives will continue to be limited by the numbers of acceptable candidate compounds available for evaluation for alternative indications. 16 We may be required to invest significant resources in identifying alternative uses for our partners’ candidates. We will not receive any revenue from our partners unless they decide to return candidates to their pipeline and our ability to earn revenue under our drug development agreements is based in part on factors over which we may have little or no control. Under our drug development partnership agreements we typically have agreed to perform evaluations of candidates at our expense. Accordingly, we may need to invest significant resources in seeking alternative uses for one or more partners’ drug candidates using our drug indication discovery platform, and we may find no new or alternative uses for these candidates. If we identify new or alternative uses for a given candidate, we may not be able to realize any value from the identification of such alternative use until our partner determines, if ever, that the use makes the candidate sufficiently desirable to warrant further development and commercialization. We do not control when, on what schedule, or whether, a partner will accept a drug candidate for redevelopment or at what pace, if at all, the partner will conduct further development efforts of such repositioned drug candidate. Such decisions may be affected by factors of which we may not be aware and over which we will have no influence. In the event that a partner declined to develop a candidate for an indication we had found, we could, in some instances and with the agreement of our partner, acquire rights to develop that candidate for particular indications and, if we were to elect to pursue development of any such candidate, any such development would require that we promptly find a partner and/or that we invest substantial financial and other resources to develop the product to a stage where we could license it out to a third-party for final development and commercialization. We have not engaged in drug development to date and there can be no assurance that we would be successful in conducting such development or in identifying a licensing partner to continue such development on terms that would be profitable to us. If we find new uses for candidates, we may not realize sufficient return from such discoveries. The indications we find may not be sufficiently attractive for development by our partners or us due to factors such as: difficulties in obtaining adequate patent protection for the new indication, the existence or discovery of alternate drug candidates that may equally or more effectively address the therapeutic need or the internal requirements of our pharmaceutical partners. Even if a candidate reenters a partner's pipeline, our milestone revenue depends on whether further development of the candidate is successful and our royalty revenue will depend on whether the candidate is commercially successful, all of which is outside of our control. These factors may limit our ability to earn significant revenue under any of our agreements. The drug indication discovery platform for our Drug Repositioning Division currently relies in part on inventions of third parties that may not always be available to us. Our drug indication discovery platform currently relies in part on inventions to which third parties have obtained or are obtaining patent or other rights and, in the process of further developing the platform we may need to license rights to use other such inventions. We may not be able to retain or to obtain license rights needed for one or more of these technologies on terms acceptable to us. We currently license certain technology in connection with certain products purchased from Xenogen Corporation and we also purchase and license the right to use Luciferase from Promega Corporation. The Xenogen license is for a term ending in 2008 with an option to renew for an additional three years. The Promega license is for a period ending on the expiration or abandonment of the last of the valid claims of the licensed patent rights. Each of these licenses is terminable if we breach the agreement and fail to cure such breach within the applicable cure period. In addition, the Promega license includes a sublicense to rights owned by an academic institution and the license from Promega would terminate if the license to Promega from the academic institution terminated. If either of these agreements were to terminate while the relevant patent claims were enforceable and if we were not able to obtain new licenses, we would have to abandon or substantially revise one of the key technologies used in our drug repositioning process. Risks Related to Our Genomics Division The Genomics Division is currently our sole source of revenue and, to continue to derive revenue from this division in the short term and to achieve our strategic objectives, we need to maintain the existing business. 17 While we seek new uses for our Genomics assets, our strategy depends, in part, on maintaining revenue from and controlling costs in our Genomics Division. To maintain revenue, we must extend existing subscriptions, find new subscribers and obtain new orders from existing customers and find new customers for our data generation and other services. All of our remaining long-term subscriptions are due to expire by their terms in 2008 and there is no assurance that any of them will be renewed or extended. While we currently expect to continue to reduce our dependence on large, multi-year subscription agreements, and increase revenue from data generation services, if we fail to achieve our revenue objectives, our Genomics Division segment could experience further losses, which also could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop an alternative strategy for the Genomics assets and our entire business could materially suffer. It is also possible that we could eventually be forced to further reduce the size of our business or to further dispose of some or all of the Genomics assets. We may not be able to identify or implement a business strategy that will achieve our objectives. While we believe that our expertise in biomarker discovery and validation could be used as a potential new platform for molecular diagnostics development and we have engaged outside financial advisors who are actively assisting us in determining the value of our competencies and assets in this area, it is possible that we will be unable to identify a strategic alternative that would provide significant value from the further development of these assets. Further, in the process of determining the long-term prospects and value of the business, we may conclude that the fair value of the Genomics business is less than its carrying value, which may require us to take one or more impairment charges. As a result of uncertainty about our long-term Genomics business strategy and as a result of restructuring our operations, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers and employees. We have significantly restructured our Genomics Division to reduce future operating expenses and have changed the strategic focus of the Company. We are also contemplating strategic alternatives that could have a material impact on our business as it is presently conducted, none of which may be successful. These factors create uncertainty, which could cause customers and employees to have concerns about our future or, in the case of employees, their future, and they may be hesitant to commit to a long-term relationship with us and existing employees may be distracted from their job responsibilities and seek other employment. We may also find it difficult to recruit new employees due to uncertainty over our future. If customers do not believe that we will continue to support, enhance or update our services, they could be less willing to purchase those services. While we believe our personnel reductions have targeted areas not necessary to our ability to serve customers, there can be no assurance that these changes will not have a negative impact on our ability to keep retained staff or provide adequate services to our customers, which, in turn, may have an adverse impact on our ability to retain and hire employees and to retain existing customers and obtain new customers. Our genomics and toxicogenomics databases may require upgrading and expansion to keep existing and find new customers, but such upgrading and expansion may be difficult or expensive. In the past, we have invested in new database content, upgraded our databases and developed new versions of our software tools due to customer demand and changes in the microarray platforms. In recent years we have reduced the amount of content added each year to our database and focused on data from samples of particular interest to our customers. Specific tissue and blood samples that we believe will enhance the content of our databases may be difficult to obtain or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Future investments will be limited as we continue the transformation of Gene Logic into a biopharmaceutical company. However, if we choose not to make such changes, it could affect our ability to keep existing or find new customers. The sales cycle for our Genomics Division is lengthy; we may spend considerable resources on unsuccessful sales efforts or may not be able to complete deals on the schedule we anticipate. The sales cycle for multi-year subscriptions to our BioExpress and ToxExpress System databases is estimated at nine to 15 months; the sales cycle for our other services, including toxicogenomics reports, microarray data generation and analysis and other professional services and solutions requires at least several months. The lengthy sales cycle is caused by a number of factors, including our need to educate our existing and potential customers and sell the benefits of the services of our Genomics Division to a variety of groups within such companies and the possible negotiation of unique terms. We may expend substantial effort with no assurance that a new or extended subscription or other agreement will result or that it can be completed in a timely manner. Actual and proposed consolidations of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have affected, and may in the future affect, our Genomics Division sales efforts. We rely on microarrays and other products supplied by Affymetrix to maintain and add to the underlying genomics and toxicogenomics data of our databases and to provide our microarray data generation and analysis and other services. 18 Our continuing ability to maintain and add to the gene expression data that is the foundation of our databases depends in part on the ability of Affymetrix to supply us with adequate quantities of high quality microarrays and other products and to make available licenses of technologies to use such products. We also rely on Affymetrix microarrays to provide our microarray data generation and analysis services and on a new line of SNP-based microarrays to provide our SNP genotyping services. Affymetrix provides us with microarrays, reagents, instrumentation and software under two agreements that expire on December 31, 2008 and 2009 respectively. There is no assurance that we can renew such agreements on terms comparable to, or as favorable to us as, the current agreements. One of the agreements is also specifically terminable if we breach the agreement and fail to cure any breach within the applicable cure period. If Affymetrix is unable or unwilling to supply us with the products and licenses we require on acceptable terms or if the microarrays are unavailable or defective or otherwise unreliable, we may incur additional database production costs and we may need to obtain alternative technologies. Alternative technologies may not be available to us, or may only be available to us on unfavorable terms. Restricted or curtailed access to such products could cause our Genomics Division to suffer by preventing or delaying our ability to provide our databases and services or increasing the cost to generate additional or replacement content for our databases. Other Risks We have a history of operating losses that are likely to continue for some time. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception, including losses of $54.7 million in 2006, $48.3 million in 2005, and $28.5 million in 2004. At December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $315.7 million. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in the development, marketing and sale of services from our Genomics and former Preclinical Divisions, development of the Drug Repositioning Division, the impairment of goodwill of our former Preclinical Division, and acquisitions of research and development. These costs have exceeded our revenue and we expect to incur additional losses in the future, including losses relating to the ongoing development of our Drug Repositioning Division. Our ability to use our Federal Net Operating Loss carryforwards may be limited. We intend to utilize our Federal Net Operating Loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) to reduce any potential future United States income tax liability. These NOLs begin to expire in 2008. Based on a Section 382 analysis performed in the fourth quarter of 2006 (that excluded NOLs obtained through acquisitions), we do not believe we are currently subject to any current material limitations on the use of our NOLs to offset our potential future income tax liability, although such limitations could occur in the future. However, we may not generate sufficient taxable income to utilize our NOLs prior to their expiration. Our ability to retain and recruit and retain qualified personnel may be adversely affected by the substantial changes we are undergoing. In 2006, we sold our Preclinical Division and restructured our Genomics workforce and supporting staff. We are now in the process of trying to develop new uses and find strategic alternatives for our Genomics assets and capabilities and continuing to develop our Drug Repositioning Business. These changes and the uncertainty of our future may make it difficult to retain and to recruit qualified personnel. We may not be able to obtain necessary funding as required to develop and operate our Drug Repositioning Business and our Genomics Business. We do not expect to begin to generate any significant revenue in our Drug Repositioning business until at least after 2007 and our Genomics business is currently operating at a loss. We are seeking strategic alternatives for our Genomics business to provide funding to develop the potential of this business for human molecular diagnostics. We may also need additional financing for our Drug Repositioning business. If we are unable to find an acceptable strategic alternative for our Genomics Division or to obtain necessary financing, or financing on favorable terms, when needed for our Drug Repositioning Division, our business would materially suffer. If additional financing is obtained through the issuance of equity securities or debt convertible to equity, our existing stockholders could experience significant dilution. Our revenue is derived primarily from, and is subject to risks faced by, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in the United States, Japan and Europe; our revenue is also subject to foreign currency risk. We expect that our revenue will continue to be derived primarily from agreements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. As a consequence, our results of operations may fluctuate substantially due to fluctuations or delays in our customers’ research and development expenditures and other factors affecting their purchasing decisions. These factors include: · fluctuations in current or potential customers’ research and development budgets; · changes in national or international economic conditions; · access to capital markets by current or potential biotechnology customers; 19 · market-driven pressures on current or potential customers to improve productivity efficiencies through consolidation, cost reduction and overall research and development effectiveness; · decisions by current or potential customers to purchase new, improved and/or alternative technologies; · pressure to limit government spending in sectors relevant to our business or changes in government procurement practices, including the process for determining reimbursement rates related to United States Government contracts; · mergers and acquisitions within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry resulting in fewer potential customers for our services and solutions; · new or more stringent application of FDA and other laws and regulations in the drug approval process; and · regulatory reviews by the FDA or other regulatory bodies that could delay or increase costs associated with drug development. In addition, beginning in 2005, contracts with our Japanese customers began to be payable in Japanese Yen and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. None of these factors is within our control. We sold our Preclinical Division in December 2006, but are still subject to certain risks from that sale. In December 2006, we sold our Preclinical Division. Under the terms of that sale, there was to be a post-closing reconciliation of working capital that could result in a purchase price adjustment. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, the buyer has raised the possibility that an adjustment is required, requiring us to make an additional payment to the buyer. We are in the process of resolving the matter as provided in the agreement. In addition, $1.5 million of the purchase price was placed in escrow until December 15, 2007 to cover our potential liability for any breaches of our representations, warranties and agreements in the stock purchase agreement, including as to certain retained liabilities. Claims for breaches of warranty relating to payment of taxes and environmental and certain other matters can exceed the escrow amount. If we concluded that the buyer is entitled to a purchase price adjustment under the terms of the agreement or the buyer makes valid claims against the escrow fund or under other indemnification provisions in the purchase agreement that are not subject to the escrow fund limitations, we could experience further costs associated with the sale of the business and may be required to further adjust the impairment charge associated with the sale of the Preclinical Division. We also guarantee two leases of facilities to our former Preclinical Division. Buyer is required to either substitute itself as guarantor or indemnify us for any claims made against our guarantees. If the former Preclinical Division defaults under such leases and claims are made against our guarantees and buyer fails to substitute itself as guarantor or adequately indemnify us, we could suffer additional losses. Certain investments made by the Company may fluctuate in value and may create an adverse impact on our financial performance; the value of certain of our intangibles and long-term investments creates risk to our financial performance. We’ve previously recorded value for goodwill and other intangible assets, including licenses to technologies or data, patent costs and software development and database upgrade costs which, at December 31, 2006, had an aggregate value of $12.7 million. Whether or not these intangible assets are impaired involves significant judgment, including the following: (i) whether our licenses and internally developed intellectual property may not provide valid and economical competitive advantage; and (ii) whether our services we provide may become obsolete before we recover the costs incurred in connection with their development. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, we are required to perform periodic reviews of our intangible assets and we may be required to reduce the value of these assets if circumstances change. In addition, we have an investment in Xceed Molecular (formerly named MetriGenix, Inc.) with a book value as of December 31, 2006 of $3.0 million. This investment is subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. Since Xceed is an independent company in which we are a minority stockholder, the factors affecting an impairment analysis, which include potential revenue, cost of capital and fair market value of the entity, are not within our control. There is no guarantee that, in the future, this investment might not be subject to an impairment charge. We may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection for new technologies and methods required for achieving our business objectives. Our success will depend in part on our ability to protect confidential information and to obtain intellectual property rights and licenses sufficient to provide adequate exclusivity and to preserve our freedom to operate. We rely on confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protective measures to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and technology that are not patentable or for which patents are difficult to enforce. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary know-how and confidential data and continue to explore further methods of protection. While we require all employees, consultants and customers with access to our trade secrets to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that we will be able to protect our trade secrets. We also rely on confidentiality procedures to prevent public disclosure of patentable proprietary technology prior to filing patents. Any material leak of confidential information into the public domain, or to third parties, could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer adverse consequences, including possible loss of patent rights. 20 Our patent position involves complex legal and factual questions. Legal standards relating to the validity and scope of claims in the genomics technology field are still evolving. Therefore, the degree of exclusivity that future patent protection may provide for our proprietary technologies in this field is uncertain. Likewise, legal standards relating to validity of claims to new methods of using known drugs are still evolving. Hence, the likelihood of patenting potential new therapeutic uses of drug repositioning candidates also is uncertain. Specific risks and uncertainties that we face in the area of patent exclusivity include: · the pending patent applications we have filed, or to which we have licensed rights, may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; the claims of any patents which are issued on our pending applications may not provide commercially meaningful protection or value; the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide adequate exclusivity for all aspects of our proprietary genomics technology; · other companies may challenge patents issued or licensed to us; and · we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection for commercialization of a potential new use of a successfully repositioned drug candidate. We may need to initiate patent enforcement litigation or be subject to future infringement claims. In addition, other organizations, including companies, academic and non-profit institutions and governmental organizations are developing technologies in the genomics and drug repositioning fields. Many of these technologies are subject to the same evolving legal standards and related uncertainties about patent protection as our proprietary technologies. Therefore, it may be necessary for us to initiate litigation to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We also face risks that patents issued to other organizations may restrict our ability to do business, and that we may be unable to obtain or maintain licenses providing freedom to operate on acceptable terms. Thus, the technologies that we use to develop our services, and those that we incorporate in our services, may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. In particular, we are aware of a number of patents and patent applications owned by others relating to genetic markers and to the analysis of gene expression or the manufacture and use of microarrays and related materials. Therefore, we could be sued by parties alleging patent infringement. The risk of involvement in patent litigation may increase as the genomics, biotechnology and software industries and drug repositioning businesses expand, more patents are issued and other organizations engage in our business fields. We could incur substantial litigation costs to defend ourselves in patent infringement suits brought by other parties or to initiate such suits. In addition, patent litigation could cause disruption in our business activities and divert management’s time and attention from the operation of our business. In that regard, in the past we purchased reagents made by Enzo from Affymetrix, and also directly from Enzo. In late 2003, Enzo sued Affymetrix, alleging, among other things, that Affymetrix had agreements with Gene Logic and other named customers to supply the Enzo reagent for use by such customers in potential violation of Enzo’s rights. That suit continues, but we have not been made a party to that suit. It is possible that Enzo could in the future make claims or initiate litigation against us in connection with our prior use of their reagent. Our activities involve hazardous materials and may subject us to environmental liability. Certain activities of our businesses involve the controlled use of limited quantities of hazardous and radioactive materials and may generate biological and/or hazardous waste. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or if we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could lose our permits and/or approvals or be held liable for damages or penalized with fines. We believe that we comply in all material respects with currently applicable environmental laws and regulations and do not expect near term material additional capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. However, we may have to incur significant costs in the future to comply with environmental laws and regulations. At present, we also believe we have appropriate insurance coverage against hazardous materials claims. If we are unable to maintain compliance with NASDAQ’s listing requirements, our stock could be delisted which would negatively impact our liquidity and our stockholders’ ability to sell shares. 21 Our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market is conditioned upon our continued compliance with the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, including a rule that requires that the minimum bid price per share for our common stock not be less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days. Given the recent price levels for our common stock, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to comply with such rules. If we fail to comply and cannot remedy our noncompliance during any applicable notice or grace periods, our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. The delisting of our common stock would likely have a material adverse effect on the trading price, volume and marketability of our common stock. Upon a delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock would become subject to the penny stock rules of the SEC, in which event it is possible that the price of our common stock would further decline and likely that our stockholders would find it more difficult to sell their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 ITEM 