Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below are some of the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. In addition, future results could be materially affected by general industry and market conditions, changes in laws or accounting rules, general U.S. and non-U.S. economic and political conditions, including a global economic slow-down, fluctuation of interest rates or currency exchange rates, terrorism, political unrest or international conflicts, political instability or major health concerns, natural disasters, commodity prices or other disruptions of expected economic and business conditions. These risk factors should be considered in addition to our cautionary comments concerning forward-looking statements in this Annual Report, including statements related to markets for our products and trends in our business that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our separate section, “Forward-Looking Statements,” should be considered in addition to the following statements. Our business is cyclical and seasonal in nature and downturns in the commercial, automotive, agricultural and off-highway vehicle markets could reduce the sales and profitability of our business. The demand for our products is largely dependent on the domestic and foreign production of commercial, automotive, agricultural and off-highway vehicles. The markets for our products have been cyclical, because new vehicle demand is dependent on, among other things, consumer spending and is tied closely to the overall strength of the economy. Because our products are used principally in the production of vehicles for the commercial, automotive, agricultural and off-highway vehicle markets, our net sales, and therefore our results of operations, are significantly dependent on the general state of the economy and other factors which affect these markets. A decline in commercial, automotive, agricultural and off-highway vehicle production could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In 2011, approximately 73% of our net sales were derived from commercial, agricultural and off-highway vehicle markets and approximately 27% were derived from the automotive market. Seasonality experienced by our served markets also impacts our operations. We may not realize sales represented by awarded business. We base our growth projections, in part, on commitments made by our customers. These commitments generally renew annually during a program life cycle. Failure of actual production orders from our customers to approximate these commitments could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 7 The prices that we can charge some of our customers are predetermined and we bear the risk of costs in excess of our estimates, in addition to the risk of adverse effects resulting from general customer demands for cost reductions and quality improvements. Our supply agreements with some of our customers require us to provide our products at predetermined prices. In some cases, these prices decline over the course of the contract and may require us to meet certain productivity and cost reduction targets. In addition, our customers may require us to share productivity savings in excess of our cost reduction targets. The costs that we incur in fulfilling these contracts may vary substantially from our initial estimates. Unanticipated cost increases or the inability to meet certain cost reduction targets may occur as a result of several factors, including increases in the costs of labor, components or materials. In some cases, we are permitted to pass on to our customers the cost increases associated with specific materials. Cost overruns that we cannot pass on to our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. OEM customers have exerted considerable pressure on component suppliers to reduce costs, improve quality and provide additional design and engineering capabilities and continue to demand and receive price reductions and measurable increases in quality through their use of competitive selection processes, rating programs and various other arrangements. We may be unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset required price reductions. Additionally, OEMs have generally required component suppliers to provide more design engineering input at earlier stages of the product development process, the costs of which have, in some cases, been absorbed by the suppliers. Future price reductions, increased quality standards and additional engineering capabilities required by OEMs may reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is very competitive and increased competition could reduce our sales. The markets for our products are highly competitive. We compete based on quality, service, price, performance, timely delivery and technological innovation. Many of our competitors are more diversified and have greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, with respect to certain of our products, some of our competitors are divisions of our OEM customers. We cannot assure you that our business will not be adversely affected by competition or that we will be able to maintain our profitability if the competitive environment changes. The loss or insolvency of any of our major customers would adversely affect our future results. We are dependent on several principal customers for a significant percentage of our net sales. In 2011, our top three customers were Navistar International Corporation, Deere & Company and Ford Motor Company, which comprised 24%, 15% and 6% of our net sales, respectively. In 2011, our top ten customers accounted for 71% of our net sales. The loss of any significant portion of our sales to these customers or any other customers would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The contracts we have entered into with many of our customers provide for supplying the customers’ requirements for a particular model, rather than for manufacturing a specific quantity of products. Such contracts range from one year to the life of the model, which is generally three to seven years. These contracts are subject to renegotiation, which may affect product pricing and generally may be terminated by our customers at any time. Therefore, the loss of a contract for a major model or a significant decrease in demand for certain key models or any group of related models sold by any of our major customers could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition by reducing cash flows and our ability to spread costs over a larger revenue base. We also compete to supply products for successor models and are subject to the risk that the customer will not select us to produce products on any such model, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we have significant receivable balances related to these customers and other major customers that would be at risk in the event of their bankruptcy. Consolidation among vehicle parts customers and suppliers could make it more difficult for us to compete successfully. The vehicle part supply industry has undergone a significant consolidation as OEM customers have sought to lower costs, improve quality and increasingly purchase complete systems and modules rather than separate components. As a result of the cost focus of these major customers, we have been, and expect to continue to be, required to reduce prices. Because of these competitive pressures, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or maintain gross margins on product sales to our customers. The trend toward consolidation among vehicle parts suppliers is resulting in fewer, larger suppliers who benefit from purchasing and distribution economies of scale. If we cannot achieve cost savings and operational improvements sufficient to allow us to compete successfully in the future with these larger, consolidated companies, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. 8 We rely on independent dealers and distributors to sell certain products in the aftermarket sales channel and a disruption to this channel would harm our business. Because we sell certain products such as security accessories and driver information products to independent dealers and distributors, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory levels and support for our products. If dealers and distributors do not maintain sufficient inventory levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted. Our dealer network also sells products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our dealers more favorable terms, those dealers may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with dealers and distributors, or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer. We are dependent on the availability and price of raw materials and other supplies. We require substantial amounts of raw materials and other supplies, and substantially all such materials we require are purchased from outside sources. The availability and prices of raw materials and other supplies may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers and interruptions in production by suppliers, weather emergencies, commercial disputes, acts of terrorism or war, changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels. As demand for raw materials and other supplies increases as a result of a recovering economy, we may have difficulties obtaining adequate raw materials and other supplies from our suppliers to satisfy our customers. At times, we have experienced difficulty obtaining adequate supplies of semiconductors and memory chips for our Electronics segment and nylon and resins for our Control Devices segment. If we cannot obtain adequate raw materials and other supplies, or if we experience an increase in the price of raw materials and other supplies, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We use a variety of commodities, including copper, zinc, resins and certain other commodities. Increasing commodity costs could have a negative impact on our results. We have sought to alleviate the impact of increasing costs by including a material pass-through provision in our customer contracts whenever possible, and at times by selectively hedging a portion of our copper exposure. The inability to pass-through increasing commodity costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We must implement and sustain a competitive technological advantage in producing our products to compete effectively. Our products are subject to changing technology, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to alternative products introduced by competitors. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to meet customers’ changing specifications with respect to quality, service, price, timely delivery and technological innovation by implementing and sustaining competitive technological advances. Our business may, therefore, require significant ongoing and recurring additional capital expenditures and investment in product development and manufacturing and management information systems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve the technological advances or introduce new products that may be necessary to remain competitive. Our inability to continuously improve existing products, to develop new products and to achieve technological advances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our Global Positioning Systems (“GPS”) products depend upon satellites maintained by the United States Department of Defense. If a significant number of these satellites become inoperable, unavailable or are not replaced, or if the policies of the United States government for the use of the GPS without charge are changed, our business will suffer. The GPS is a satellite-based navigation and positioning system consisting of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense. The Department of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the satellite signals. These satellites and their ground support systems are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. The satellites were originally designed to have lives of seven and a half years and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. However, of the current deployment of satellites in place, the average age is six years. If a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable, unavailable or are not replaced, it would impair the current utility of our GPS products and the growth of market opportunities. In addition, there can be no assurance that the U.S. government will remain committed to the operation and maintenance of GPS satellites over a long period, or that the policies of the U.S. government that provide for the use of the GPS without charge and without accuracy degradation will remain unchanged. Because of the increasing commercial applications of the GPS, other U.S. government agencies may become involved in the administration or the regulation of the use of GPS signals. Any of the foregoing factors could affect the willingness of buyers of our products to select GPS-based products instead of products based on competing technologies, which could adversely affect our operational revenues and our financial condition. 9 We may incur material product liability costs. We may be subject to product liability claims in the event that the failure of any of our products results in personal injury or death and we cannot assure you that we will not experience material product liability losses in the future. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance will be adequate for liabilities ultimately incurred or that it will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to participate in government-imposed or customer OEM-instituted recalls involving such products. A successful claim brought against us that exceeds available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in any product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Increased or unexpected product warranty claims could adversely affect us. We typically provide our customers a warranty covering workmanship, and in some cases materials, on products we manufacture. Our warranty generally provides that products will be free from defects and adhere to customer specifications. If a product fails to comply with the warranty, we may be obligated or compelled, at our expense, to correct any defect by repairing or replacing the defective product. We maintain warranty reserves in an amount based on historical trends of units sold and payment amounts, combined with our current understanding of the status of existing claims. To estimate the warranty reserves, we must forecast the resolution of existing claims, as well as expected future claims on products previously sold. The amounts estimated to be due and payable could differ materially from what we may ultimately be required to pay. An increase in the rate of warranty claims or the occurrence of unexpected warranty claims could have a material adverse effect on our customer relations and our financial condition or results of operations. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights or maintain our rights to use licensed intellectual property or are found liable for infringing the rights of others, our business could be adversely affected. Our intellectual property, including our patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and license agreements, are important in the operation of our businesses, and we rely on the patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the United States and other countries, as well as nondisclosure agreements, to protect our intellectual property rights. We may not, however, be able to prevent third parties from infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating our intellectual property, breaching any nondisclosure agreements with us, or independently developing technology that is similar or superior to ours and not covered by our intellectual property. Any of the foregoing could reduce any competitive advantage we have developed, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. We cannot assure you that any intellectual property will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged, rejected, cancelled, invalidated or declared unenforceable. In the case of pending patent applications, we may not be successful in securing issued patents, or securing patents that provide us with a competitive advantage for our businesses. In addition, our competitors may design products around our patents that avoid infringement and violation of our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that we have rights to use all intellectual property used in the conduct of our businesses or that we have complied with the terms of agreements by which we acquire such rights, which could expose us to infringement, misappropriation or other claims alleging violations of third party intellectual property rights. Third parties have asserted and may assert or prosecute infringement claims against us in connection with the services and products that we offer, and we may or may not be able to successfully defend these claims. Litigation, either to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims regarding intellectual property rights of others, could result in substantial costs and in a diversion of our resources. Any such claims and resulting litigation could require us to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all), pay damages and cease making or selling certain products and could result in a loss of our intellectual property protection. Moreover, we may need to redesign some of our products to avoid future infringement liability. We also may be required to indemnify customers or other third parties at significant expense in connection with such claims and actions. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 10 Disruptions in the financial markets could adversely impact the availability and cost of credit which could negatively affect our business. Our credit facility has a maximum borrowing level of $100.0 million and is scheduled to expire on December 1, 2016. The available borrowing capacity on this credit facility is based on eligible current assets, as defined. As of December 31, 2011, we had undrawn borrowing capacity of $29.5 million, based on eligible current assets. We will need to refinance the credit facility prior to its expiration. Disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy, insolvency or restructuring of certain financial institutions, and the general lack of liquidity may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit. We may be required to refinance the credit facility at terms and rates that are less favorable than our current terms and rates, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our debt obligations could limit our flexibility in managing our business and expose us to risks. As of December 31, 2011, the face amount of our senior secured notes was $175.0 million. In addition, we are permitted under our credit facility and the indenture governing our senior secured notes to incur additional debt, subject to specified limitations. Our high degree of leverage and the terms of our indebtedness may have important consequences including the following: ·we may have difficulty satisfying our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and if we fail to comply with these requirements, an event of default could result; ·we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; ·covenants relating to our debt may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; ·covenants relating to our debt may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; ·we may be more vulnerable than our competitors to the impact of economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; and ·we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage against any less leveraged competitors. These and other consequences of our substantial leverage and the terms of our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Covenants in our credit facility and our indenture governing the senior secured notes may limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our credit facility and the indenture governing our senior secured notes limit our ability to, among other things: ·incur additional debt and guarantees; ·pay dividends and repurchase our stock; ·make other restricted payments, including investments; ·create liens; ·sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; ·enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries; ·enter into transactions with our affiliates; ·consolidate, merge or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and ·substantially change the nature of our business. The agreement governing our credit facility also requires us to maintain a ratio of (i) consolidated EBITDA, as defined in the credit facility, less specified items to (ii) consolidated fixed charges, as defined in the credit facility, of at least 1.10 to 1.00 whenever undrawn availability under the credit facility is less than $20 million. Our ability to comply with this fixed charge coverage ratio requirement, as well as the restrictive covenants under the terms of our indebtedness, may be affected by events beyond our control. 11 The restrictions contained in the indenture governing our senior secured notes and the agreement governing our credit facility could: ·limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and ·adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants under our indebtedness or our inability to comply with the fixed charge coverage ratio requirement in the credit facility could result in a default under the agreement governing the credit facility and the indenture governing the senior secured notes. If a default occurs, holders of the senior secured notes could declare all principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under the credit facility could elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings, and holders of the senior secured notes and the credit facility lenders could pursue foreclosure and other remedies against us and our assets. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our obligations with respect to our indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn will be affected by general economic conditions and by financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future sources of capital will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds that may be realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. The credit facility and the indenture governing our senior secured notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, holders of the senior secured notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our credit facility could terminate their commitments to lend us money, holders of the senior secured notes and the lenders under the credit facility could foreclose on or exercise other remedies against the assets securing the senior secured notes and borrowings under our credit facility and we could be forced into bankruptcy, liquidation or other insolvency proceedings, which, in each case, could result in your losing your investment in our Common Shares. Our physical properties and information systems are subject to damage as a result of disasters, outages or similar events. Our offices and facilities, including those used for design and development, material procurement, manufacturing, logistics and sales are located throughout the world and are subject to possible destruction, temporary stoppage or disruption as a result of any number of unexpected events. If any of these facilities or offices was to experience a significant loss as a result of any of the above events, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue, and result in large costs to repair or replace these facilities or offices. In addition, network and information system shutdowns caused by unforeseen events such as power outages, disasters, hardware or software defects, computer viruses and computer security violations pose increasing risks. Such an event could also result in the disruption of our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue, and result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such network and information systems. 12 We may experience increased costs and other disruptions to our business associated with labor unions. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 10,800 employees, approximately 3,400 of whom were salaried, and the balance of whom were paid on an hourly basis. Although we have no collective bargaining agreements covering U.S. employees, certain employees located in Brazil, Estonia, France, Mexico, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom either (i) are represented by a union and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement or (ii) are covered by works council or other employment arrangements required by law. We cannot assure you that other of our employees will not be represented by a labor organization in the future or that any of our facilities will not experience a work stoppage or other labor disruption. Any work stoppage or other labor disruption involving our employees, employees of our customers (many of which customers have employees who are represented by unions), or employees of our suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations by disrupting our ability to manufacture our products or reducing the demand for our products. Compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations could be costly and require us to make significant expenditures. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing, among other things: ·the discharge of pollutants into the air and water; ·the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of waste and other materials; ·the cleanup of contaminated properties; and ·the health and safety of our employees. Our business, operations and facilities are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines for violations. The operation of our manufacturing facilities entails risks and we cannot assure you that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these operations. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Changes in environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and requirements or other governmental regulations could increase our cost of doing business or adversely affect the demand for our products. We also may be required to investigate or clean up contamination resulting from past or current uses of our properties. At our former Sarasota, Florida, facility, for example, groundwater and soil contamination caused by operations before we acquired the facility will require future cleanup. The costs of such remediation could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although no other environmental matters have been identified, other matters involving environmental contamination may also have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to risks related to our international operations. Approximately 21.4% of our net sales in 2011 were derived from sales outside of North America. At December 31, 2011, significant concentrations of net assets outside of North America included $197.8 million assigned to South America and $53.5 million assigned to Europe. Non-current assets outside of North America accounted for approximately 72.9% of our non-current assets as of December 31, 2011. International sales and operations are subject to significant risks, including, among others: ·political and economic instability; ·restrictive trade policies; ·economic conditions in local markets; ·currency exchange controls; ·labor unrest; ·difficulty in obtaining distribution support and potentially adverse tax consequences; and ·the imposition of product tariffs and the burden of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export laws. Additionally, to the extent any portion of our net sales and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, changes in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 13 Our annual effective tax rate could be volatile and materially change as a result of changes in the mix of earnings and other factors. Our overall effective tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of our total earnings before tax. However, tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis, but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. Losses in certain jurisdictions may not provide a current financial statement tax benefit. As a result, changes in the mix of earnings between jurisdictions, among other factors, could have a significant impact on our overall effective tax rate. Our inability to recover from natural or man-made disasters or similar events could adversely affect our business. Our business and financial results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate or that are beyond our control, such as natural, like the Japanese earthquake or tsunami, or man-made disasters, national emergencies, significant labor strikes, work stoppages, political unrest, war or terrorist activities that could curtail production at our facilities or our suppliers’ facilities and cause delayed deliveries and canceled orders. In addition, we purchase components, raw materials, information technology and other services from numerous suppliers, and, even if our facilities are not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions at such suppliers. Such suppliers may not be able to quickly recover from such events and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. We cannot assure you that we will have insurance to adequately compensate us for any of these events. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquisitions into our business or may otherwise be unable to benefit from pursuing acquisitions. Failure to successfully identify, complete and/or integrate acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on us. A portion of our growth in sales and earnings has been generated from acquisitions and subsequent improvements in the performance of the businesses acquired. We expect to continue a strategy of selectively identifying and acquiring businesses with complementary products. We cannot assure you that any business acquired by us will be successfully integrated with our operations or prove to be profitable. We could incur substantial indebtedness in connection with our acquisition strategy, which could significantly increase our interest expense. Covenant restrictions relating to such indebtedness could restrict our ability to pay dividends, fund capital expenditures and consummate additional acquisitions. We anticipate that acquisitions could occur in geographic markets, including foreign markets, in which we do not currently operate. As a result, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Any failure to successfully integrate such acquisitions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Our success as a company depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of key executives and other employees. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our strategic initiatives. Our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to greater competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. Any unplanned turnover could diminish our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 14 