ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS IN EVALUATING US, CAREFUL CONSIDERATION SHOULD BE GIVEN TO THE RISK FACTORS SET FORTH BELOW, AS WELL AS THE OTHER INFORMATION SET FORTH IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K. ALTHOUGH THESE RISK FACTORS ARE MANY, THESE FACTORS SHOULD NOT BE REGARDED AS CONSTITUTING THE ONLY RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESSES. EACH OF THESE RISK FACTORS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS AND/OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. IN ADDITION TO THE FOLLOWING DISCLOSURES, PLEASE REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT INCLUDING THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES. CERTAIN BANKRUPTCY CONSIDERATIONS We May Not Be Able to Consummate Our Exit Financing and Successfully Implement the Plan Our emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection is contingent on the closing of our exit financing. Additionally, if we remain in Chapter 11 beyond the anticipated closing date of February 28, 2008 we may be faced with needing to extend our DIP financing which expires on March 31, 2008. It is not certain that we can extend our DIP financing and, if we can extend it, at what cost. It may also become necessary to amend our Solutia Europe S.A./N.V. (“SESA”) €200 million facility agreement and our Flexsys $225 million multicurrency term and revolving financing facility. It is not certain that we can amend these facilities and, if we can amend them, at what cost. If we are unable to successfully implement our Plan, it would then be unclear as to whether we would be able to reorganize our businesses and what, if any, distributions holders of claims against or equity interests in us ultimately would receive with respect to their claims or equity interests. If our confirmed Plan does not become effective, there also can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop, prosecute, confirm, and consummate an alternative plan of reorganization with respect to the chapter 11 cases that would be acceptable to the Bankruptcy Court and our creditors, equity holders and other parties in interest. There can be no assurance that such an alternative plan of reorganization would preserve the reallocation of the Legacy Liabilities that is achieved in the Plan, which eliminates legacy tort liability exposure, reduces environmental obligations, and significantly reduces our exposure with regard to retiree obligations. Additionally, it is possible that third parties may seek and obtain approval to terminate or shorten the exclusivity period during which only we may propose and confirm a plan of reorganization. Finally, our emergence from bankruptcy is not assured. Prolonged Continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases May Harm Our Businesses Any prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases beyond the anticipated closing date of February 28, 2008 could adversely affect our businesses and operations. As long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with our reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our businesses. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 Cases continue, the more likely it is that our customers, suppliers, distributors and agents will lose confidence in our ability to successfully reorganize our businesses and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, as long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the proceedings. Additionally, if we remain in Chapter 11 beyond the anticipated closing date of February 28, 2008 we may be faced with needing to extend our DIP financing which expires on March 31, 2008. It is not certain that we can extend our DIP financing and, if we can extend it, at what cost. 14 The Change of Control Produced by Our Restructuring May Result in a Limitation On or Loss of Net Operating Losses for Federal Income Tax Purposes Our issuance of new common stock in a reorganized Solutia, along with the cancellation of existing equity interests may cause us to undergo an ownership change upon emergence from Chapter 11. As a result, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) may apply to limit our use of consolidated net operating losses upon emergence. Additionally, our ability to use any remaining capital loss carryforwards and tax credits may be limited. The annual limitation imposed by the particular provision of Section 382 of the IRC that we expect to apply to our ownership change generally equals the product of (i) the fair market value of the net equity value of our stock at the time of the ownership change, taking into account the increase in value of the corporation as a result of the surrender or cancellation of creditor’s claims in the transaction (rather than the value without taking into account such increases, as is the case under the general rule for non-bankruptcy ownership changes) multiplied by (ii) the long-term tax-exempt rate in effect for the month in which the ownership change occurs. The long-term tax-exempt rate is published monthly by the IRS and is intended to reflect current interest rates on long-term tax-exempt debt obligations. Accordingly, under this rule the Section 382 limitation would generally reflect the increase in the value of our new stock resulting from the conversion of debt to equity in the proceeding. Section 383 of the IRC applies a similar limitation to a capital loss carryforward and tax credits. Although it is impossible to predict with absolute certainty the net equity value of reorganized Solutia immediately upon emergence from Chapter 11, our use of our net operating losses is expected to be substantially limited after an ownership change. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY The Prices of Raw Materials and Energy We Require to Produce Our Products Are Volatile and Cannot Always Be Passed On to Our Customers We purchase large amounts of commodity raw materials, including natural gas, propylene, cyclohexane and benzene. Occasionally, temporary shortages of these raw materials and energy sources may occur. In addition, we often purchase major requirements for key raw materials under medium-term contracts. Pricing under these contracts may fluctuate as a result of unscheduled plant interruptions, United States and worldwide market conditions and government regulation. Given our competitive markets, it is not always possible to pass all of these increased costs on to our customers. In addition, natural gas prices and other raw material and energy costs are currently more than double the average ten-year levels. Elevated raw material and energy costs could significantly reduce our operating margins in the future. See also Business – Raw Materials and Energy Resources. Problems Encountered in Operating Our Production Facilities Could Adversely Impact Our Business Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unscheduled down time and environmental hazards. From time to time in the past, we have had incidents that have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted our manufacturing, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of our production facilities. In addition, some of our products involve the manufacture or handling of a variety of reactive, explosive and flammable materials. Use of these products by our employees, customers and contractors could result in liability to us if an explosion, fire, spill or other accident were to occur. 15 We Have and Will Continue to Have Significant Indebtedness We have and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our significant indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: · We will have to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow to making interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. · Levels of indebtedness may make us less attractive to potential acquirors or acquisition targets. · Levels of indebtedness may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions, and make us more vulnerable to downturns in general economic conditions as compared to competitors that may be less leveraged. · As described in more detail above, the documents providing for our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that may limit our financing and operational flexibility. Furthermore, our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations will depend, among other things, upon our future operating performance and ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. These factors depend partly on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our debt service obligations as well as fund necessary capital expenditures, pension funding obligations and investments in research and development. In addition, if we need to refinance our debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets or equity, we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Turnover in the Senior Management Team and Losses of Other Key Personnel Could Have a Significant Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations The services of our senior management team, as well as other key personnel, have been integral in our improving results during the Chapter 11 Cases and will be critical to the implementation of our business strategies going forward and our success. If our emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases is delayed, our financial results diminish, the terms of incentive compensation programs are not adequate or any other adverse events occur in the Chapter 11 Cases, we may have difficulty retaining current senior management and other key personnel and be unable to hire qualified personnel to fill any resulting vacancies, which could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to emerge from Chapter 11. We Operate in a Highly Competitive Industry That Includes Competitors with Greater Resources Than Ours The markets in which we compete are highly competitive. Competition in these markets is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technological and other resources and may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Consolidation of our competitors or customers may also adversely affect our businesses. Furthermore, global competition and customer demands for efficiency will continue to make price increases difficult. We Operate in Cyclical Business Segments and Our Financial Results Are Likely to Fluctuate Accordingly We operate in cyclical business segments. Specifically, a substantial portion of our sales are to customers involved, directly or indirectly, in the housing and automotive industries, both of which are, by their nature, cyclical industries. A downturn in either or both of these industries would result in lower demand for our products among customers involved in those industries and a reduced ability to pass on cost increases to these customers. If We Are Unable to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights, Our Sales and Financial Performance Could Be Adversely Affected We own a large number of patents that relate to a wide variety of products and processes and have a substantial number of patent applications pending. We own a considerable number of established trademarks in many countries under which we market our products. These patents and trademarks in the aggregate are of material importance to the operations 16 of our businesses. Our performance may depend in part on our ability to establish, protect and enforce such intellectual property and to defend against any claims of infringement, which could involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions and uncertainties. In the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. If litigation that we initiate is unsuccessful, we may not be able to protect the value of some of our intellectual property. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties or license fees to continue to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using or we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable period of time. If we are unable to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, we may be forced to cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, or to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and may be time-consuming. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of some of our resources. Our intellectual property rights may not have the value that we believe them to have, which could result in a competitive disadvantage or adversely affect our business and financial performance. See also Business – Intellectual Property. Legal Proceedings Could Impose Substantial Costs on Us As a manufacturer of chemical-based materials, we are subject to various lawsuits involving environmental, hazardous waste, personal injury and product liability claims. We are named in a number of legal proceedings primarily relating to former operations, including claims for personal injury and property damage arising out of releases of or alleged exposure to materials that are classified as hazardous substances under federal environmental law or alleged to be hazardous by plaintiffs. Adverse judgments in these legal proceedings, or the filing of additional environmental or other damage claims against us, may have a negative impact on our future results of operations. Additionally, administrative and legal costs associated with defending or settling large claims, or large numbers of claims, could have a negative impact on our future results of operations. It is possible that the Bankruptcy Court could disagree with our treatment of these claims. It is also possible that third parties, including the U.S. federal government, state regulatory agencies, or others, may challenge the dischargeability of these claims. If these litigation matters or claims are not treated as contemplated in our Plan, as filed, or if the actual costs are materially greater than estimates associated with these claims, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future operating performance. The Applicability of Numerous Environmental Laws to Our Manufacturing Facilities Could Cause Us to Incur Material Costs and Liabilities We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, safety and health laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to land and water and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. We are also required to maintain various environmental permits and licenses, many of which require periodic modification and renewal. Our operations entail the risk of violations of these laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. In addition, these requirements and their enforcement may become more stringent in the future. Non-compliance with such future requirements could subject us to material liabilities, such as government fines, third-party lawsuits or the suspension of non-compliant operations. We may also be required to make significant site or operational modifications at substantial cost. Future regulatory and enforcement developments could also restrict or eliminate our ability to continue to manufacture certain products or could require us to make modifications to our products. At any given time, we are involved in litigation, administrative proceedings and investigations of various types in a number of jurisdictions involving potential environmental liabilities, including clean-up costs associated with contaminated hazardous waste disposal sites, natural resource damages, property damages and personal injury. For example, natural resource trustees have asserted certain natural resource damage claims against us principally relating to our Anniston and Sauget facilities, the liability for which we expect to share with Monsanto pursuant to our Plan. The natural resource trustees have estimated the value of the natural resource damages at between $66 million and $604 million; we dispute these estimates and have received estimates from third party experts of $14 million to $51 million for such asserted damages. These damage estimates are preliminary and subject to change and do not take into account reductions 17 to damages possible through projects to restore natural resources. We may be required to spend substantial sums to defend or settle these and other actions, to pay any fines levied against us or satisfy any judgments or other rulings rendered against us and such sums may be material. Under certain environmental laws, we can be held strictly liable for hazardous substance contamination at real property we have owned, operated or used as a disposal site or for natural resource damages associated with such contamination. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. One liable party could be held responsible for all costs at a site, regardless of fault, percentage of contribution to the site or the legality of the original disposal. We may also face liability for violations under environmental laws occurring prior to the date of our acquisition of properties subject thereto. As described in more detail above and in the following paragraph, we could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, natural resources damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims as a result of hazardous substance contamination. We have made and will continue to make substantial expenditures for environmental and regulatory compliance and remediation projects. During 2007, we spent approximately $11 million on environmental compliance-related capital projects for various environmental matters and $68 million for the management of environmental programs. Included in environmental program management is the operation and maintenance of current operating facilities for environmental control which is expensed in the period incurred, and $12 million for remediation activities. The substantial amounts that we may be required to spend on environmental capital projects and programs could cause substantial cash outlays and, accordingly, could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity and profitability or may limit our financial and operating flexibility. In addition, although we believe that we have correctly budgeted and, to the extent appropriate under applicable accounting principles, reserved for these amounts, factors beyond our control may render these budgeted and reserved amounts inadequate. These factors include changing governmental policies and regulations, the commencement of new governmental proceedings or third party litigation regarding environmental remediation, new releases of hazardous substances that result in personal injury, property damage or harm to the environment, the discovery of unknown conditions of contamination or unforeseen problems encountered in the environmental remediation programs. Our commencement of Chapter 11 proceedings was caused, in significant part, by an accumulation of Legacy Liabilities, including, among others, “legacy environmental liability” arising from historical operations of Pharmacia prior to the Solutia spin-off. In the course of the Chapter 11 proceedings, we have achieved a substantial reallocation of the risk from these Legacy Liabilities. In particular, Monsanto has agreed to be financially responsible for remediation costs and other environmental liabilities for sites owned, operated or used by Pharmacia but never owned, operated or used by us after the Solutia Spin-off, to share liabilities with respect to offsite areas at the Sauget and Anniston plant sites, and to be financially responsible for personal injury and property damage claims associated with exposures to hazardous substances arising from legacy Pharmacia operations (so-called “Legacy Toxic Tort Claims”). If Monsanto and Pharmacia fail to honor their obligation with respect to such remediation costs or Legacy Toxic Tort Claims, we could become responsible for some or all of such liabilities (except for the remediation costs and other environmental liabilities for sites owned, operated or used by Pharmacia but never owned, operated or used by us for which we expect to receive a discharge under the Plan) which liabilities could be material. See also Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Environmental Matters. We Face Currency and Other Risks Associated with International Sales We generate revenue from export sales, as well as from operations conducted outside the United States. For example, approximately 55 percent of our consolidated sales in 2007 were made into markets outside the United States, including Europe, Canada, Latin America and Asia. Approximately 74 percent of the sales of the Performance Products segment were made into markets outside the United States. Operations outside the United States expose us to risks which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions including fluctuations in currency values, trade restrictions, tariff and trade regulations, U.S. export controls, foreign tax laws, shipping delays, and economic and political instability. For example, violations of U.S. export controls could result in fines and the suspension or loss of export privileges. The functional currency of each of our non-U.S. operations is generally the local currency. Exchange rates between some of these currencies and U.S. dollars have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the future. It is possible that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates will have a negative effect on our results of operations. 18 Many of Our Products and Manufacturing Processes Are Subject to Technological Change and Our Business Will Suffer if We Fail to Keep Pace We sell many of our products (and their corresponding manufacturing processes) in markets that are subject to technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. We must continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved capabilities to continue to be a market leader. We must also continue to make improvements in our manufacturing processes and productivity to maintain our competitive position. When we invest in new technologies, processes or production facilities, we will face risks related to construction delays, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical difficulties related to start-up. Our inability to anticipate, respond to, capitalize on or utilize changing technologies could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in any given period. Significant Payments May Be Required to Maintain the Funding of Our Domestic Qualified Pension Plan We maintain a qualified pension plan under which certain of our employees and retirees are entitled to receive benefits. Although we have frozen future benefit accruals under our U.S. pension plan, significant liabilities still remain. In order to fund the pension plan, we made significant contributions to the pension plan in 2007 amounting to approximately $105 million and will have to fund more going forward. We may be unable to obtain financing to make these pension plan contributions. In addition, even if financing for these contributions is obtained, the funding obligations and the carrying costs of debt incurred to fund the obligations could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we are party to certain litigation with respect to our domestic pension plan as more fully described in Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. It is not known what funding liabilities may be required of us under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act and any other applicable law if a judgment is entered against our pension plan in this litigation, given that we are the sponsor of the Solutia Pension Plan. If a final judgment is entered against the Solutia pension plan, the liability resulting from such judgment could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and continuing operations. Our Operations Are Restricted by the Terms of Our Credit Facilities Our current credit facilities include a number of significant restrictive covenants and our exit facility will as well. These covenants could impair our financing and operational flexibility and make it difficult for us to react to market conditions and satisfy our ongoing capital needs and unanticipated cash requirements. Specifically, such covenants restrict our ability and, if applicable, the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: · incur additional debt; · make certain investments; · enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; · limit dividends or other payments by us and certain of our subsidiaries; · use assets as security in other transactions; · pay dividends on our common stock or repurchase our equity interests; · sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; · guarantee the debts of others; · enter into new lines of business; · make capital expenditures; · prepay, redeem or exchange our debt; 19 · form any joint ventures or subsidiary investments. In addition, our current credit facilities and our exit facility require us to satisfy certain financial covenants. These financial covenants and tests could limit our ability to react to market conditions or satisfy extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing and operations. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we would be required to obtain waivers from our lenders to maintain compliance with our debt obligations. If we are unable to obtain any necessary waivers and the debt is accelerated, a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future operating performance would result. Labor Disruptions With the Unionized Portion Of Our Workforce Could Have a Negative Effect As of December 31, 2007, approximately 15 percent of our United States employees were unionized. They are represented by various labor unions with local agreements set to expire between July 2009 and February 2013. While we believe that our relations with our employees are good, we may not be able to negotiate these or other collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. A prolonged labor dispute, which could include a work stoppage, could impact our ability to satisfy our customers’ requirements and negatively affect our financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 