Item 1A. Risk Factors We may not have adequate financial resources to execute our business plan. We have historically operated at a loss and have not consistently generated sufficient cash from operating activities to cover our operating and other cash expenses. While we have been able to historically finance our operating losses through borrowings or from the issuance of additional equity, we currently have no plans to borrow additional funds or to issue additional equity securities for this purpose. At December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of $5.6 million. While we believe that existing sources of liquidity are sufficient to meet expected cash needs through 2010, we will need to increase our net sales or further reduce our operating expenses in order to be assured of meeting our liquidity needs on a long-term basis. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our net sales, further reduce our expenses, or raise further capital or equity and, accordingly, we may not have sufficient sources of liquidity to continue the operations of the Company indefinitely. We have a history of operating losses and may incur losses in the future. We have experienced annual losses from continuing operations since inception of our operations. Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $1.9 million. Our loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $0.5 million. These historical losses have been due principally to the high levels of research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses that we have incurred in order to develop and market our products, the fixed nature of our manufacturing costs, restructuring charges and impairment charges. In addition, markets for our products and services have developed more slowly than expected in many cases and may continue to do so. As a result, we may incur operating losses in the future. Market demand is outside of our control. There are many factors that affect the market demand for our products and services that we cannot control. Demand for our WAVE System is affected by the needs and budgetary resources of research institutions, universities, hospitals and others who use the WAVE System for genetic-variation research. The WAVE System represents a significant expenditure by these types of customers and often requires a long sales cycle. Similarly, the sales cycle for the OEM equipment that we sell can also be lengthy. If net sales from the sales of our products and services continue at current levels, we may need to take steps to further reduce operating expenses or raise additional working capital. We cannot assure you that sales will increase or that we will be able to reduce operating expenses or raise additional working capital. K-6 Table of Contents The current economy may decrease sales. Demand for our instruments is affected by the budgetary resources of institutions that use our products. Potential customers may be unable to obtain the financing that they need to make such significant capital expenditures during these troubled economic times. In addition, potential customers may be under budgetary restrictions which do not allow for such capital expenditures in the foreseeable future. Sales of our Laboratory Services have been variable. Laboratory Services include services performed by both our Molecular Clinical Reference Laboratory and our Pharmacogenomics Research Services. Testing volumes at the Molecular Clinical Reference Laboratory is dependent on patient visits to doctors’ offices and other providers of health care and tends to fluctuate on a seasonal basis. Volume of testing generally declines during the year end holiday periods, other major holidays and the summer. The Pharmacogenomics Research Services depends on project based work which will change from quarter to quarter. Therefore, comparison of the results of successive quarters may not accurately reflect trends or results for the full year. Our Laboratory requires ongoing CLIA certification. The Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (“CLIA”) extended federal oversight to virtually all clinical laboratories by requiring that they be certified by the federal government or by a federally-approved accreditation agency. CLIA requires that all clinical laboratories meet quality assurance, quality control and personnel standards. Laboratories also must undergo proficiency testing and are subject to inspections. The sanctions for failure to comply with CLIA requirements include suspension, revocation or limitation of a laboratory’s CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business, cancellation or suspension of the laboratory’s approval to receive Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement, as well as significant fines and/or criminal penalties. The loss or suspension of a CLIA certification, imposition of a fine or other penalties, or future changes in the CLIA law or regulations (or interpretation of the law or regulations) could have a material adverse effect on us. We believe that we are in compliance with all applicable laboratory requirements, but no assurances can be given that our laboratories will pass all future certification inspections. Failure to comply with HIPAA could be costly. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and associated regulations protect the privacy and security of certain protected health information and establish standards for electronic healthcare transactions in the United States. These privacy regulations establish federal standards regarding the uses and disclosures of protected health information. Our Molecular Clinical Reference Laboratory is subject to HIPAA and its associated regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our Laboratory Services business. We could also incur liabilities from third party claims. K-7 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely impacted by healthcare reform. Government attention to the healthcare industry in the United States is significant and may increase. There has been extensive public discussion on healthcare reform. While it is not possible to predict what changes in U.S. government regulation of healthcare will occur, or the nature or impact of any such change, our business could be adversely impacted by these changes. The sale of our products and business operations in international markets subjects us to additional risks. During the past several years, international sales have represented approximately 60% of our total net sales. As a result, a major portion of our net sales are subject to risks associated with international sales and operations. These risks include: • payment cycles in foreign markets are typically longer than in the U.S., and capital spending budgets for research agencies can vary over time with foreign governments; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates can make our products more costly in local currencies since our foreign sales are typically paid for in British Pounds or the Euro; • the potential for changes in U.S. and foreign laws or regulations that result in additional import or export restrictions, higher tariffs or other taxes, more burdensome licensing requirements or similar impediments to our ability to sell products and services profitably in these markets; and • the fluctuation of foreign currency to the US Dollar and the Euro to the British Pound can cause our net sales and expenses to increase or decrease which adds risk to our financial statements. Our WAVE System includes hardware components and instrumentation manufactured by a single supplier and if we are no longer able to obtain these components and instrumentation our ability to manufacture our products could be impaired. We rely on a single supplier, Hitachi High Technologies America, to provide the basic instrument modules used in our WAVE Systems. While other suppliers of instrumentation are available, we believe that our arrangement with Hitachi offers strategic advantages. We have successfully converted the latest model of WAVE Systems to utilize Hitachi’s newest instrument line. If we were required to seek alternative sources of supply, it could be more time consuming or expensive or require significant and costly modification of our WAVE System. Also, if we were unable to obtain instruments from Hitachi in sufficient quantities or in a timely manner, our ability to manufacture our products could be impaired, which could limit our future net sales. The current economy may cause suppliers of products to not be able to perform. We rely on various suppliers for products and materials needed to produce our products. In the event that they would be unable to deliver those items due to product shortage or business closure, we would be unable to deliver our products or may need to increase our prices. The current economy poses additional risk of our suppliers’ ability to continue their businesses as usual. K-8 Table of Contents We may not have adequate top executive talent to execute our business plan. In order to reduce our operating costs, we have reduced the number of employees in most areas of our business. In addition, we may lose key management, scientific, technical, sales and manufacturing personnel from time to time. It may be very difficult to recruit and retain executive management if they are needed in the future, and the loss of top executive talent could harm our business and operating results. We cannot assure you that our employee reductions will not impair our ability to continue to develop new products and refine existing products in order to remain competitive. In addition, these reductions could prevent us from successfully marketing our products and developing our customer base. Our markets are very competitive. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we do and may enjoy other competitive advantages. This may allow them to more effectively market their products to our customers or potential customers, to develop products that make our products obsolete or to produce and sell products less expensively than us. As a result of these competitive factors, demand for and pricing of our products and services could be negatively affected. Our patents may not protect us from others using our technology that could harm our business and competitive position. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop similar or alternative products or technology, duplicate any of our products, or, if patents are issued to us, design around the patented products developed by us. Our patents or licenses could be challenged by litigation and, if the outcome of such litigation were adverse to us, our competitors could be free to use our technology. We may not be able to obtain additional patents for our technology, or if we are able to do so, patents may not provide us with adequate protection or be commercially beneficial. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in litigation if we are required to defend ourselves in patent suits brought by third parties or if we initiate such suits. We cannot be certain that other measures taken to protect our intellectual property will be effective. We rely upon trade secret protection, copyright and trademark laws, non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions for some of our confidential and proprietary information that is not subject matter for which patent protection is being sought. Such measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. If such measures do not protect our rights, third parties could use our technology and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. We are dependent upon our licensed technologies and may need to obtain additional licenses in the future to offer our products and remain competitive. We have licensed key components of our technologies from third parties. If these agreements were to terminate prematurely due to our breach of the terms of these licenses or we otherwise fail to maintain our rights to such technology, we may lose the right to manufacture or sell a substantial portion of our products. In addition, we may need to obtain licenses to additional technologies in the K-9 Table of Contents future in order to keep our products competitive. If we fail to license or otherwise acquire necessary technologies, we may not be able to develop new products that we need to remain competitive. The protection of intellectual property in foreign countries is uncertain. A significant percentage of our sales are to customers located outside the U.S. The patent and other intellectual property laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. We may need to bring proceedings to defend our patent rights or to determine the validity of our competitors’ foreign patents. These proceedings could result in substantial cost and diversion of our efforts. Finally, some of our patent protection in the U.S. is not available to us in foreign countries due to the laws of those countries. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. There are a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications submitted for technologies in, or related to, our area of business. As a result, any application or exploitation of our technology could infringe patents or proprietary rights of others and any licenses that we might need as a result of such infringement might not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. This may lead others to assert patent infringement or other intellectual property claims against us. Our failure to comply with any applicable government regulations or otherwise respond to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous chemicals that we use may adversely affect our results of operations. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. We are subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we could be required to pay penalties or be held liable for any damages that result and this liability could exceed our financial resources. We cannot assure you that accidental contamination or injury will not occur. Any such accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities and operations, resulting in delays and increased costs. The price for our common stock is volatile and may drop. The trading price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly over recent years. The volatility in the price of our stock is attributable to a number of factors, not all of which relate to our operating results and financial position. Our stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board (OTCBB). Continued volatility in the market price for our stock should be expected and we cannot assure you that the price of our stock will not decrease in the future. Fluctuations or further declines in the price of our stock may affect our ability to sell shares of our stock and to raise capital through future equity financing. Our stock has been delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market and is now trading on the OTC Bulletin Board (OTCBB). On February 1, 2007, we received a staff determination letter from Nasdaq’s Listing Qualifications Department indicating that we no longer met the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. As a result, our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital K-10 Table of Contents Market was ended on February 22, 2007. Trading information about our common stock became available on the OTC Bulletin Board beginning on February 26, 2007. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock”, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” under the rules of the SEC. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 3a51-1 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock”, for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 requires: • that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and • that the broker or dealer receives from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: • obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and • make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: • sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and • that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. We may issue a substantial amount of our common stock to holders of options and warrants and this could reduce the market price for our stock. At December 31, 2009, we had obligations to issue 11,309,887 shares of common stock upon exercise of outstanding stock options representing 3,331,731 shares and warrants representing K-11 Table of Contents 7,978,156 shares. The issuance of these additional shares of common stock may be dilutive to our current shareholders and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is thinly traded and a large percentage of our shares are held by a small group of unrelated, institutional owners. At December 31, 2009, we had 49,189,672 shares of common stock outstanding. Fewer than ten unrelated, institutional holders own more than 50% of these shares. The sale of significant shares into the public market has potential to cause significant downward pressure on the price of our common stock. This is particularly the case if the shares being placed into the market exceed the market’s ability to absorb the stock. Such an event could place further downward pressure on the price of our common stock. This presents an opportunity for short sellers to contribute to the further decline of our stock price. If there are significant short sales of our stock, the price decline that would result from this activity will cause the share price to decline more so, which, in turn, may cause long holders of the stock to sell their shares thereby contributing to sales of stock in the market. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 