ITEM 1A. Risk Factors ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments ITEM 2. Properties ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II ITEM 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities ITEM 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures ITEM 9B. Other Information PART III ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant ITEM 11. Executive Compensation ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Matters ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements and Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K SIGNATURES Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm—Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Report of Independent Registered Accounting Firm—Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three years ended December 31, 2005 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the three years ended December 31, 2005 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years ended December 31, 2005 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 2 PART I This Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”) contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future results of Gene Logic Inc. (“Gene Logic”) that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which Gene Logic operates and the beliefs and assumptions of the management of Gene Logic. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed in this Form 10-K under the section entitled “Risk Factors”. Gene Logic undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in management’s expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements are based. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to “Gene Logic,” “Gene Logic Laboratories Inc.,” “Gene Logic Ltd.,” “Gene Logic K.K.,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Gene Logic Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Gene Logic®, GeneExpress®, BioExpress®, ToxExpress®, ASCENTA® and Genesis Enterprise System® are registered trademarks of Gene Logic. Drug Repositioning and Selection™, SCIANTIS™, ToxScreen™, ToxShield™, ToxEdge™, ToxPlus™ and Phase RSM are trademarks of Gene Logic. GeneChip® is a registered trademark of Affymetrix, Inc. Viagra® is a registered trademark of Pfizer, Inc. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Corporate History Gene Logic Inc. was incorporated in September 1994 as a Delaware corporation and commenced operations in 1996. In 1997, we completed our initial public offering. Our stock is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol “GLGC”. In 1998, we purchased Oncormed, Inc. In 2001, we created a company named MetriGenix, Inc. to hold certain technologies related to gene chip design. In late 2003, MetriGenix’s assets were acquired by a privately held company in which we retain a minority ownership interest. In 2003, we purchased TherImmune Research Corporation, which was later renamed Gene Logic Laboratories. In 2004, we acquired certain technologies from Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which is the basis for our current Drug Repositioning Division. We are headquartered in Gaithersburg, Maryland. Our principal executive offices are located at 610 Professional Drive, Gaithersburg, MD 20879, and the telephone number is (301) 987-1700. Our Internet site is www.genelogic.com. Material contained on our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Overview Gene Logic provides innovative drug discovery and development solutions to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry. Our solutions help customers develop therapeutically and commercially valuable compounds in a more timely, efficient, and cost-effective manner. Our customers use our solutions to understand the effect of compounds on biological processes and to identify, analyze and evaluate critical safety, efficacy, and other patient clinical factors so that they may better assess the likely therapeutic and commercial value of their targets and compounds. Customers use our solutions throughout the pharmaceutical R&D process, from early discovery through late-stage clinical development. We operate our business through three business segments: · Genomics Division: through the use of our proprietary reference gene expression and toxicogenomics databases, toxicogenomics services, software tools, microarray data generation and analysis and other professional services and solutions, we help customers worldwide to discover and prioritize drug targets, identify biomarkers, predict toxicity and understand the mechanism of toxicity, and obtain insights into the efficacy of specific compounds. · Preclinical Division: through the use of in vivo (in life) models and related laboratory services, we enable customers in the United States to assess the safety and pharmacologic effects of candidate compounds for the purpose of submitting to the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) an Investigational New Drug application (“IND”) seeking approval to initiate human trials. · Drug Repositioning Division: through the use of a series of molecular pharmacology technologies, we assist customers to more effectively use their own compounds by (i) identifying alternative indications for customers’ failed, stalled or deprioritized drug candidates, and expect in the future to assist customers to (ii) expand indications for customers’ currently marketed drugs, and (iii) prioritize and identify indications for customers’ compounds in preclinical development. 3 We sometimes refer to the combination of our Genomics Division and Preclinical Division as our “base business.” We provide our drug development solutions primarily to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are located mainly in North America, Europe, and Japan. Our total revenue for 2005 was $79.4 million, of which $56.6 million, $22.2 million and $0.6 million were derived from our Genomics Division, Preclinical Division and Drug Repositioning Division, respectively. Total revenue for 2004 was $75.9 million, of which $52.2 million and $23.8 million were derived from our Genomics Division and Preclinical Division, respectively. Total revenue for 2003 was $69.5 million, of which $52.0 million and $17.6 million were derived from our Genomics Division and Preclinical Division, respectively. We did not generate any revenue from our Drug Repositioning Division in 2004 or 2003. Strategy Our business strategy is to: 1. Develop a sustainably profitable base business through increased revenue growth and improved operating margins; and 2. Through our Drug Repositioning Division, build long-term value for the Company, our pharmaceutical customers and our shareholders from significant success-based milestone and royalty payments (or other ownership positions) from a pipeline of our partners’ drug candidates that are successfully repositioned based on our work. To accomplish our strategy, we are implementing the following in each of our businesses. i. Genomics Division—We continue to diversify and expand our Genomics Division beyond large, multi-year subscriptions. This is allowing us to expand our customer base from primarily large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to include small to mid-size pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and academic, government and research institutions. In our Genomics Division, we initiated a strategy to increase revenue by broadening the number of genomics and toxicogenomics-based services we offer to customers thereby making our services more accessible and affordable for a broader potential customer base. While a majority of our Genomics Division revenue continues to come from broad licenses to our databases with large pharmaceutical customers, we derive a smaller but growing percentage of our revenue from a combination of our toxicogenomics services, software tools, microarray data generation and analysis and other professional services and solutions (i.e., ASCENTA System and ToxShield). Our ToxExpress System now includes gene expression data derived from rat liver, kidney and heart, and rat hepatocytes. As part of our Microarray Data Generation and Analysis service, we have added new Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (“SNP”) genotyping capabilities to address our customers’ growing interest in examining single base-pair mutations as potential therapeutic entry points for research and development. We continue to update the gene expression data in our BioExpress System database using the latest human microarray technology. We have also granted perpetual licenses to some customers for certain data from our BioExpress and ToxExpress System databases as well as our software tools including all or part of the Genesis Enterprise System, GX Connect and ASCENTA System. ii. Preclinical Division—We continue to target the underserved biotechnology and small to mid-size pharmaceutical company market, and continue to improve the quality of our services as we build a leading contract research organization. In our Preclinical Division, we are working to improve the utilization of our existing capacity for in vivo studies. To accomplish this we have redirected our marketing and sales efforts toward biotechnology companies and small to mid-size pharmaceutical companies. This market segment has greater need for outsourced study capabilities and assistance with study design, implementation and analysis and is relatively underserved by larger contract research providers. We have added sales staff in key geographic regions where we were previously underrepresented and continue to provide the consulting services requested by these customers. We also continue to seek business from large pharmaceutical companies when such opportunities arise. We continue to focus on improving our internal operational processes and quality controls. We also continue to consider strategic alternatives for this business. 4 iii. Drug Repositioning Division—We are seeking to build long-term value from success-based milestone and royalty payments or from partial ownership positions from our partners’ drug candidates when they are repositioned and successfully moved back into clinical testing and to the commercial market. In 2004, we acquired certain technologies from Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Millennium”) which we continue to develop and use in combination with our existing capabilities in genomics, toxicogenomics, and bioinformatics that together comprise the basis of our Drug Repositioning Division. We partner with pharmaceutical companies to identify alternate uses for their stalled, failed or deprioritized drug candidates and enable these drug candidates to return to the development pipeline and potentially to commercialization. We conduct our Drug Repositioning Division primarily through our research facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts. We plan to expand our Drug Repositioning Division into drug candidate selection and finding new indications for approved drugs. In 2005, we grew the number of partnerships to reposition drug candidates for pharmaceutical companies beyond our agreement with Millennium and an unnamed pharmaceutical partner (unnamed at their request) to include partnerships with Pfizer, Inc., and with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. and one of its affiliates (collectively “Roche”). We expect that any significant revenue under these agreements will not occur in 2006. We intend to continue establishing partnerships with additional pharmaceutical companies in 2006. Some of our partnerships are structured to provide us with contingent milestone payments and royalties payable as we successfully reposition drug candidates that re-enter our partners’ development pipelines. Other partnerships provide us with an opportunity to acquire an ownership position in the drug candidate in exchange for paying a portion of the development costs. If a partner declines to develop a drug candidate for one or more indications we have found, we could acquire rights to develop the drug candidate further, either directly or through a third-party arrangement. Scientific and Industry Background The cells of all living organisms contain a blueprint or set of instructions for how each cell-type should work. This blueprint is passed from one generation to the next and is encoded in a set of molecules called deoxyribonucleic acid (“DNA”). These DNA molecules are organized into long strands that bind to each other in a twisted double helix structure. DNA molecules can be organized in a vast number of different ways, leading to the production of millions of different protein molecules. These protein molecules are the basic building blocks of all living organisms. Protein molecules are produced from DNA utilizing an intermediate molecule called messenger ribonucleic acid (“mRNA”), which translates DNA into protein form. The specific sequence of DNA that produces a particular protein is called a gene. In humans, every cell contains three billion pairs of DNA molecules, referred to collectively as the human genome. Only a small percentage of the genome actively produces proteins. Cells are very different from each other in structure and function despite the fact that they share the same genetic blueprint. For example, a brain cell and a muscle cell, although very different, contain exactly the same DNA code. The reason for the difference in structure and function is that not all genes are active in any cell. The type of cell and its function are determined by which genes are actively producing protein and the amount of protein they are producing. In fact, almost any change in the activity of a cell, whether normal or diseased, is reflected in a change in the genes that are producing protein. This pattern of gene activity is called gene expression. The determination of patterns of gene expression is a broad measure of the function of a cell. Microarray technology has accelerated the process of measuring gene expression. Microarray technology uses millions of DNA sequences attached to a solid surface in a dense matrix. Samples of cells and tissues from humans or animals are prepared, and the resulting mRNA is then labeled and exposed to the surface of the microarray. The labeled mRNA adheres to its counterpart DNA on the microarray, resulting in information which can then be analyzed to determine the level and pattern of gene expression within that tissue or cell. While the biology of different normal and diseased cells can be evaluated by analyzing gene expressions patterns, there are also variations of the gene sequence for similar genes from individual to individual. These individual variations in gene sequence, known as SNPs, account for similar proteins working more or less effectively. These differences in protein function lead to individual variations in the effectiveness of drugs, susceptibility to disease, and toxicity of compounds. There may be hundreds or thousands of variations within any gene from one individual to another. There are thought to be about three million significant SNPs in the human genome, although not all of them have yet been discovered and the function for most is not known. These variations are determined by various methods and machines that allow a DNA sequence to be analyzed. Different patterns of gene expression are associated with normal and diseased cells, as well as either the toxic or therapeutic effect that drugs can have on cells. 5 For example, a cancerous tissue can be compared to normal tissue to find aberrant gene activity that is associated with the cancer, and that information can be used to identify biomarkers (a molecular marker associated with a biological function) and targets and develop drugs to treat the disease. Using information about the human genome to develop drugs is called pharmacogenomics. Normal cells can also be compared to cells that have been treated with a specific compound, to determine if that compound has a toxic effect on cells. Using information about how gene expression patterns vary when chemicals are toxic to tissues is called toxicogenomics. The amount of information that is generated from sequencing three billion base pairs of DNA and using microarrays to look at gene expression patterns in tens of thousands of biological tissues and processes could not be stored and analyzed if it were not for advances in information technology that occurred with the development of computers and the internet. The science of using computers to capture and understand biology is known as bioinformatics. Besides gene expression data, there are many other methods to look at biological function. In addition to the many traditional methods, there are also new methods which are being developed. Some of these include: · Metabolomics, which is the measurement of proteins that have been used or changed in performing their function. This information can be used to determine what pathways and biological functions have been active. · Proteomics, which is the measurement of many proteins at once to analyze patterns of protein production and use. Proteomics measures proteins while gene expression measures mRNA. However, proteomics is much more difficult to do because there are millions of rapidly changing types of proteins as compared to tens of thousands of types of mRNA molecules. · In vivo imaging, which is the use of imaging technologies to visually see where potential drugs are attaching to biological targets in animals. This can be done by putting either a label or tag on the compound of interest, injecting the labeled compound into a test animal, and using a machine to see where the labeled compound actually goes. Alternatively, the animal itself can be genetically modified so that a particular biological pathway or target is labeled in the animal. When that biological pathway or target is activated by a test compound, a signal from the tag can be seen using special imaging machines. · In vitro (“in dish”) screening, which is the use of cells grown in culture to evaluate how compounds cause the cells to change or react. There are many different measurements that can be made on the cells. The cells used in these assays can also be genetically modified so they indicate a particular process or pathway in the cell that is being activated. Gene expression and other methods of looking at biological functions are critical to pharmaceutical companies’ drug development processes. The current model for drug development is based on developing a systematic understanding of biology. Pharmaceutical companies develop drugs by seeking specific proteins that could be therapeutic targets. These companies then seek chemical compounds that could modulate or manipulate the targets in a way that would have a therapeutic effect. Scientists have the ability to screen large libraries of compounds using high-throughput automated systems against biological targets to identify potential therapeutic compounds that will modulate these targets. But, first, scientists must identify the targets, from among the 3,000 to 5,000 human genes that might produce proteins. One efficient way to identify these targets is using gene expression data produced from normal and diseased human tissues as well as from animal models and cell lines. The process of drug development is expensive, time consuming and risky. On average it takes 13 years from the beginning of the discovery effort to get a drug to market. During this time, a company will typically have filed one or more patent applications, but since patents have a maximum term of 20 years from the date of the initial filing, the period during which the drug is being evaluated and ultimately approved uses up a significant part of the period of exclusivity provided under patent law. Current studies estimate the overall success rate of a compound making it to market is 8% and the overall cost of developing a compound is between $800 million to $1.2 billion. On average, research and development costs have been doubling every five years, yet success rates for getting drugs to market have been flat or declining. Today, drug discovery and development in the United States generally consists of the following steps: · Discovery. Discovery is the process of identifying new biological targets and the compounds that can affect them. Targets must be identified, prioritized and validated. Gene expression data has been very useful in target identification and prioritization, but the process of target validation remains tedious, expensive and time-consuming. Through lead discovery and lead optimization, compounds that can affect identified targets are tested, analyzed, modified and optimized, using information about potential toxicity, absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion. · Preclinical Testing. Compounds that are being considered as drugs must be studied to determine if the compound will have unacceptable toxic effects and if it will be effective in treating the targeted disease or condition. Traditionally, prior to initiating studies in humans, a pharmaceutical company conducts laboratory and animal studies to show evidence of effectiveness and levels of toxicity. More recently, compounds can also be evaluated for potential toxicity using toxicogenomics and effectiveness using pharmacogenomics. Although the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) accepts pharmacogenomics data as part of an Investigational New Drug Application (“IND”) submission, it does not accept pharmacogenomics data as a substitution for the animal studies required as part of the IND submission process. 6 · Investigational New Drug Application. After completing preclinical testing, the company files an IND application with the FDA for permission to test the compound in humans. The IND application shows results of previous experiments; how, where and by whom the new studies will be conducted; the chemical structure of the compound; how it is thought to work in the body; any toxic effects found in the animal studies; and, how the compound is manufactured. In addition, the IND application must be reviewed and approved for ethical issues and protection of patient rights by the organization’s Institutional Review Board. Once the trials commence, progress reports on clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA. · Clinical Trials. These tests involve a series of studies (Phase I, II and III) involving up to several thousand patients over a multi-year period. These tests assess safety, appropriate dosage, and effectiveness in humans. · New Drug Application (“NDA”). Following successful completion of clinical trials, the company files an NDA application with the FDA. FDA approval of an NDA is required before any new drug can be commercialized. · Approval. Once the FDA approves the NDA, the new medicine becomes available for physicians to prescribe. The company must continue to periodically report to the FDA, including instances of adverse reactions and appropriate quality-control records. For some medicines, the FDA requires additional studies (Phase IV) to evaluate long-term effects. Additional uses for compounds (sometimes called drug repurposing or repositioning) to date have typically been discovered by accident. An example of this is the drug Viagra, which was initially developed to treat heart disease and is now much more widely used for treating sexual dysfunction. Our Business Genomics Division Our Genomics Division includes proprietary gene expression and toxicogenomics databases, toxicogenomics services, software tools, and microarray data generation and analysis services (for gene expression and SNP genotyping), and other professional services. These services assist researchers in identifying and characterizing drug targets and biomarkers and can help predict potential human toxicity of drug candidates. Gene expression patterns and biological pathways in disease, genetic abnormalities, and mechanisms involved in drug efficacy and toxicity all help researchers make better informed decisions. Our Genomics Division are based on gene expression results and clinical data from a collection of over 35,000 diseased and normal human and animal model tissues, as well as primary cells and cell cultures. These samples, together with relevant pathology and clinical data are collected from clinical centers, teaching hospitals, academic medical centers, standard toxicology animal lab studies and, in some instances, commercial providers. The samples in our BioExpress System represent more than 400 separate clinical disease indications with focused collection programs in critical therapeutic areas of greatest market interest, including oncology, cardiovascular, central nervous system, inflammatory and metabolic diseases. The samples in our ToxExpress System are primarily derived from animal liver, the primary toxicity response site, as well as animal heart and kidney. We isolate and prepare the genetic material from these tissue samples and then analyze the genetic material through a high throughput, automated process using microarrays to determine gene expression. The results of this analysis and the corresponding pathology and clinical or experimental information for each sample are compiled using our software and bioinformatics capabilities, resulting in reference databases and software tools that are the foundation of our Genomics Division. Our Genomics Division currently comprises the following offerings: BioExpress System - The BioExpress System is a database that enables drug development researchers to use our data to: (i) investigate human disease and disease progression by identifying and prioritizing disease-associated gene targets through an understanding of gene expression patterns, genetic abnormalities, disease pathways and disease mechanisms of action, (ii) examine the interrelationship between the human genome, disease mechanisms and related individual clinical parameters, and (iii) identify potential disease biomarkers. The database comprises gene expression data derived from normal and diseased human and animal tissues and related pathology and clinical or experimental information about those samples. BioExpress Disease and Custom Suites - The BioExpress Disease Suites and Custom Suites consist of subsets of BioExpress System data with matched normal tissue sample data. BioExpress Suites consist of information focused on a particular therapeutic area, including oncology, cardiovascular disease, central nervous system disorders, inflammatory and metabolic diseases, and normal human biology. Custom Suites consist of data subsets from multiple therapeutic specifically selected by the customer. 7 BioExpress Individual Samples - BioExpress Individual Samples are for customers who choose to study the gene expression data and associated clinical or experimental attributes of individually selected sample(s) from our BioRepository. These samples represent a variety of therapeutic areas, including oncology, cardiovascular disease, central nervous system disorders, inflammatory and metabolic diseases, and normal human biology. ASCENTA System - The ASCENTA System is a web-based analysis system that contains selected, curated gene expression data sets from the BioExpress System. The ASCENTA System allows researchers, who may not have the necessary level of resources or bioinformatics experience, to effectively use a significant portion of the BioExpress System’s capabilities to quickly profile gene expression across major human diseases including multiple sclerosis, inflammatory bowel disease, and Parkinson’s disease. Its intuitive format and convenient summary data reports are organized into individual genes, pathways and gene families utilizing human, rat and mouse tissue sample sets related to relevant therapeutic areas, including inflammation, oncology, central nervous system disorders, cardiovascular disease and metabolic disease. Additional algorithms and visualization and summary tools help researchers identify key genes and biological pathways that possess distinctive expression characteristics and disease-related expression patterns. SCIANTIS System - The SCIANTIS System is derived from the ASCENTA System and is intended to be a cost-effective way for researchers in academic, government, and non-profit institutions to obtain access to parts of the data and technologies in the ASCENTA System. The data contained in this web-based system can be utilized as a lab-bench companion tool and is useful for a number of research applications in the life sciences. Researchers can quickly profile the expression patterns of genes across a wide collection of human, rat and mouse tissues, making SCIANTIS a cost-effective alternative to common laboratory gene expression analysis techniques such as Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction (“RT-PCR”) and Northern blotting. Microarray Data Generation and Analysis Services - We offer a growing portfolio of services that enable customers to outsource the generation and analysis of gene expression and SNP genotyping information, primarily from customer-supplied biological samples. Our services are designed to deliver high quality, reproducible data in the customer’s preferred format. Recent portfolio additions include high-throughput SNP profiling using the Affymetrix GeneChip Mapping 500K Array Set and a proprietary gene expression profiling service specifically for primate studies. To provide their services, we use automation, state-of-the-art facilities and our expertise in sample handling, preparation, processing, and data analysis. Customers use this information to help make better decisions throughout their drug discovery and development process. ToxExpress System - The ToxExpress System is a database consisting of gene expression profiles and associated experimental data from rat and canine tissues as well as rat and human primary hepatocytes. These samples include both normal samples and treated samples (i.e., samples that have been exposed to specific compounds with known toxicity). The information for each treated sample includes a “toxicity profile”, containing time-course, dose and other classical toxicology study information, supplemented with data from studies on primary human liver tissues and cells and other animal model tissues. The ToxExpress System data can be used to develop predictive models and to undertake mechanistic studies on acute and chronic human toxicity. Customers use the data to develop risk assessment/management strategies, and to prioritize leads in development. ToxSuite Datasets - The ToxExpress System can be divided into compound, organ, and cell type-specific subsets collectively known as ToxSuite Datasets. ToxSuite Datasets consist of gene expression and experimental information focused on a specific area of interest or toxic end-point, including in vivo liver, kidney and heart and in vitro hepatocytes. Such specific studies allow researchers to add to their current databases and/or to screen individual compound classes suspected of causing a particular type of toxicity. Toxicogenomics Services - We offer toxicogenomics-related services based on proprietary predictive models derived from our ToxExpress System and our experience in molecular toxicology, in vivo studies, microarray analysis and software and database development. Our toxicogenomics services can be used to predict toxicity, help select potential lead compounds and potentially help resolve unexpected toxicity by assessing toxicity risk across multiple animal models. These services include: ToxScreen Reports - predict potential toxicity of candidate compounds based on our proprietary predictive toxicogenomic models and toxicity biomarkers. Our expanded offering includes rat liver, rat heart, and in vitro rat hepatocytes capabilities. 8 Molecular Mechanism of Toxicity (“MOT”) Services - provide analyses of gene expression changes to explain how specific compounds may exert and generate toxic effects in specific tissues and biological pathways. Custom ToxExpress Services - apply the technologies of the ToxExpress System and our internal experts to customer-specific, compound-related questions and database needs related to resolving toxicity-based issues. ToxShield Suite - The ToxShield Suite is an intuitive web-based system for use by toxicologists and drug safety scientists to assess and rank candidate compounds based on potential human toxicity, as determined using a rat liver model. Each ToxShield Suite report characterizes candidate compounds for potential predicted toxicity, proposes likely induced pathologies and finds reference compound matches from those included in the ToxExpress System. Genesis Enterprise System Software - The Genesis Enterprise System Software is our enterprise-wide bioinformatics solution. It is a sophisticated and comprehensive software platform for warehousing, comparing, mining, analyzing and visualizing gene expression and clinical information. This software enables drug development researchers to compile and rapidly assess large data sets (including our proprietary data, customer-derived data and publicly available research data), and contains various tools for conducting sophisticated analyses of gene expression data. Preclinical Division Our Preclinical Division is our contract research organization and comprises in vivo research studies, including general and specialty toxicology studies, and related laboratory services. These services enable our customers to assess the safety and pharmacologic effects of candidate compounds for the purpose of submitting to the FDA an IND seeking approval to initiate human trials. Our Preclinical Division includes the following: General Toxicology Services - Our general toxicology services are the cornerstone of our Preclinical Division. We offer general toxicology studies designed to assess the safety and risk profile of pharmaceuticals, biologics, nutraceuticals, environmental contaminants and other chemical compounds. These studies can be conducted on multiple animal model types and use both basic and specialized routes of administering compounds to subjects. We conduct studies on acute toxicity, chronic toxicity, sub-chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity. For such studies, we may help our customers design their studies, conduct and document studies, analyze results and help guide our customers through the FDA regulatory process. Specialty Toxicology Services - Our specialty toxicology services include: Developmental and Reproductive Toxicology (“DART”) Services - provide a detailed evaluation of stages of animal model reproduction and development in order to estimate at which stages of human reproduction a candidate compound under development presents a potential risk. Safety Pharmacology Services - investigate the effects of target compounds in mammalian species, primarily on the cardiovascular, respiratory and central nervous systems, and on the renal/urinary, gastrointestinal and immune functions. Vaccine Testing Services - general toxicology-related tests designed to evaluate the safety and biodistribution of vaccines. Laboratory Services - Our laboratory services group provides specialized laboratory testing related to: Clinical and Anatomic Pathology - analysis of the effects and mechanism of action of test article in blood, serum, organs and tissues of animal models. Analytical Chemistry - analysis of test article in terms of purity verification, product stability, dose verification, concentration verification, and pharmacokinetics in preclinical and clinical trial samples. Immunology - combination of immunoassays for preclinical, toxicology and clinical studies, including custom assay development, assay validation and qualification, biodistribution evaluation and chemiluminescent detection to determine test article presence for safe dose level and immune response. 9 Drug Repositioning Division The pharmaceutical development process is widely recognized as being expensive, time-consuming and risky, with a high failure rate. Billions of dollars have been spent to identify and develop biologically active compounds that do not ultimately succeed for various reasons, including (i) insufficient effectiveness in treating the disease or condition for which they were designed; (ii) safety and toxicity issues; (iii) patient variability in responding to a drug candidate; and (iv) insufficient potential economic return for the company developing the drug candidate. Using traditional methods, scientists have great difficulty in determining and evaluating the complete extent of biological activity of drug candidates under development. As a result, the development of drug candidates that have limited effectiveness in human clinical trials for the selected indication are often stopped, even though such compounds may be effective in treating other medical problems. Such alternative uses are often discovered by accident, most often as a result of clinical experiences. For example, Pfizer’s Viagra, which was originally intended to treat heart conditions in men, was repositioned following advanced clinical trials. Viagra is now used to treat sexual dysfunction. Pharmaceutical companies have traditionally relied on two mainstream approaches to establish a robust compound portfolio - advancing internally developed candidates and in-licensing externally generated ones. The first approach continues to be time-consuming and expensive while the latter is limited by increased competition between pharmaceutical companies to in-license a finite number of quality drug candidates. We believe our Drug Repositioning Division provides an efficient and relatively cost-effective approach for systematically uncovering a drug candidate’s biological activity and using it to discover new development paths. We have the ability to run a drug candidate through our entire repositioning technology platform in less than one year, allowing us the potential to quickly and efficiently discover possible new indications for a drug candidate. Our Drug Repositioning Division uses a technology platform that integrates technologies acquired from Millennium Pharmaceuticals in 2004 (and improvements we have made to those technologies) with our core genomics, toxicogenomics and in silico (in computer data) biology capabilities. We continue to invest in the necessary scientific and technological expertise in order to further refine and improve the technologies that are the basis for our approach to drug repositioning. Our Drug Repositioning Division currently has the ability to process more than 30 drug candidates per year. In 2005, we grew the number of partnerships to reposition drug candidates for pharmaceutical companies beyond our agreement with Millennium and another pharmaceutical partner to include partnerships with Pfizer, Inc. and Roche. We do not expect to derive any significant revenue from milestones or royalties under these agreements in 2006. The current emphasis for our Drug Repositioning Division is developing partnerships focused on the repositioning of stalled, failed or deprioritized drug candidates so that such drug candidates can be returned to clinical development. The drug candidates we are seeking are generally set aside due to issues other than serious toxicity. Currently, the agreements we have established with our pharmaceutical company partners require that we bear the up-front financial cost of identifying and, in some instances, the cost of conducting animal model studies to validate the potential new use in return for certain contingent payments or ownership positions (see “Contractual Arrangements”). Our Drug Repositioning Division is led by highly experienced drug researchers and technology experts who use multiple, proprietary technology platforms (including in-licensed technologies) for discovering potential new development paths for our partner’s drug candidates. Our partnerships to date have focused on the application of our indication-seeking technologies. We are evaluating the potential to expand our Drug Repositioning Division into drug selection and finding additional indications for drugs already on the market for our pharmaceutical partners. In 2005, we initiated work on more than 30 drug candidates, and we expect to continue to maintain this capacity in 2006. The technologies used in our Drug Repositioning Division currently consist of: Indication-Seeking Technologies - We believe that no single technology is adequate to assess the effect of a compound across complex biological processes. Our multi-platform solution allows us to systematically and efficiently evaluate a range of biological activity that potentially may be affected by a drug candidate, including its potential effect on a wide variety of diseases without requiring a prior disease-specific hypothesis. The technologies we use to develop hypotheses about which diseases a drug candidate may be used to treat include in vivo (in life), in vitro (in dish), in silico (in computer data), and ex vivo (outside organism) assessments of a drug candidate at the DNA, RNA, protein, pathway, and cellular levels. Potential alternative therapeutic uses can then be validated through a study using an animal model related to the new disease indication performed either in our laboratories or those of a third-party service provider or by our pharmaceutical partners. 10 Real-Time In Vivo Animal Imaging - We are using in-licensed technology in conjunction with proprietary protocols and procedures to create an optimal imaging program that allows the pharmacological action of a compound in organs and tissues to be visualized non-invasively using genetically engineered mice. This technology allows us to determine which organs are impacted by the compound, timing of the response and biological pathway information. Ex Vivo Multiplex Bioanalytics - Using sophisticated laboratory automation and proprietary targeted separation and analysis techniques, we can simultaneously measure levels of biomolecules in certain biological fluids collected from a compound-treated animal. By comparing the levels of biomolecules in treated animals to those in normal animals, we can identify activity caused by the compound which may signal potential alternative disease indications. In Vitro Molecular Pharmacology - Powered by sophisticated robotics and software, part of our technology platform allows us to apply a compound to a large number of cell types to identify pathways that may be activated or repressed by the compound. Another technology enables us to apply a compound to cells in a broad panel of cellular assays, each of which represents one or more relevant diseases, to measure the impact of the compound on the diseases. In Silico Biology - Our existing genomics capabilities enable us to find close relatives of the target protein in the genome, major and minor sites of expression of the target in the body, disease conditions that alter the expression of the target and a host of additional drug target parameters. We use the BioExpress System and our proprietary algorithms and biostatistical expertise to identify pathways and cell regulatory patterns to understand a compound’s mechanism of activity in any organ of interest. In the future, we may also use the following technologies: Variable Drug Response Technologies - Drug candidates sometimes provide inconclusive or conflicting results due to the fact that individual humans may metabolize compounds differently and therefore may react differently to a particular compound. For example, some humans may metabolize a drug more slowly than others and thus get a stronger dose than is desirable. We are currently assessing the development of a series of variable drug response technologies that could potentially help uncover such variable responses by assessing the potential role of common genetic variants of drug metabolizing enzymes in clinical outcomes for a given drug candidate. This program could assist customers in developing tests or criteria that can indicate appropriate dosing for individuals, thus making a drug candidate safer or more effective. Customers, Sales, Marketing and Customer Support During 2005, two Genomics Division customers each accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue. In addition, our top five customers accounted for approximately 37% of our total revenue in 2005. The following table sets forth information on the composition of our total revenue by geographic region for each of the last three fiscal years: Geographic Region For the year ended: North America Pacific Rim Europe December 31, 2005 51% 29% 20% December 31, 2004 54% 32% 14% December 31, 2003 48% 34% 18% We market and sell the services of our Genomics Division primarily to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies based in North America, Japan and Europe. We are expanding our marketing and sales efforts for our Genomics Division into additional markets worldwide, including government, non-profit and academic research centers. We market and sell the services of our Preclinical Division to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies based in the United States and to United States Government agencies. We market and sell the capabilities of our Drug Repositioning Division to pharmaceutical companies based in North America, Japan and Europe. We conduct our sales activities primarily through our direct sales force. Genomics Division We have a representative in Japan who assists us in making sales and provides marketing advice and support in connection with our Genomics Division. We pay our representative a fee based on the services licensed or sold as a result of the representative’s efforts. Prior to this arrangement, we had an arrangement with another representative, until July 2005, pursuant to which the representative received a share of revenues it generated for us in Japan. We also have an agreement with a distributor to distribute our SCIANTIS System to academic, government and other non-profit research organizations in 32 countries on a non-exclusive basis and in Japan on an exclusive basis. 11 As part of our international expansion efforts, we maintain our own customer service support groups in Japan and the United Kingdom. These groups provide technical and customer support to our customers in Japan and Europe. To address the needs of our Genomics Division customers, we provide pre- and post-sales support activities through our genomics services and software support group, including technical demonstrations, planning and implementation of initial deployment and new and ongoing training, regular content updates, software upgrades, on-going support and follow-on training. Preclinical Division Our Preclinical Division staff, including study directors, toxicologists, pathologists and chemists, provide support for our Preclinical Division customers throughout the duration of each study, including prior to study commencement (development of testing protocol and regulatory guidance), during the study (real-time testing progress reports and monitoring) and post-study (analysis and reporting of study results). Drug Repositioning Division We have a team of business development professionals with diverse pharmaceutical and consulting experience who lead contract negotiations with potential pharmaceutical partners. Once a contract is signed, members of both the technology and business development groups interact with each pharmaceutical partner on a regular basis. We expect to continue to expand the staffing of our Drug Repositioning Division in future periods. Research & Development Research and development expenses for the years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $6.8 million, $2.4 million and $2.1 million, respectively. Of our total R&D expense for the years ended 2005 and 2004, most of the costs were associated with our Drug Repositioning Division. A majority of our research and development expense consists of investments in the development of the technologies and related business infrastructure required to commercialize our Drug Repositioning Division. The technologies we acquired in 2004 from Millennium represent a significant portion of our Drug Repositioning Division technology platform. In connection with the acquisition, we agreed to spend at least $8.5 million over the first eighteen months to develop and commercialize these technologies. This initial investment requirement was achieved in 2005. In addition, we are required contractually to invest up to an additional $6.0 million over the subsequent twelve months. Based on the amount we have already spent, as of January 1, 2006 we have a remaining contractual obligation of $1.9 million. A smaller portion of our research and development expense consists of general technology and process improvements related to our Genomics Division. This portion of our research and development is focused on developing new applications and licensing or acquiring technologies to serve as platforms for the development of new gene expression, SNP genotyping and other molecular-based solutions. We continue to research methods to improve the production of our gene expression data and decreasing the size requirements for tissue samples. We also continue to invest in expanding our predictive toxicogenomics models for use in both our ToxExpress System database and our toxicogenomics services, such as ToxShield. We are also investing in new technologies to improve the throughput of our in vitro toxicogenomics models. We will continue to review other technology platforms and monitor related industry trends. Additions to the content of our BioExpress or ToxExpress System databases and related services are accounted for as database production expenses not research and development. Contractual Arrangements Genomics Division We expect that a majority of our Genomics Division revenue will continue to be derived from subscription agreements. Typically, our customers enter into multi-year agreements for our larger databases (and annual or multi-year agreements for certain of our smaller databases) to obtain non-exclusive access to all or parts of our gene expression and toxicogenomics databases. These agreements may be for a full database or a portion of a database tailored to a customer’s needs and most relevant to their drug development strategy. One of our subscription agreements contains specific content update requirements that, if not met, could result in a reduction in license fees. Pricing for these subscriptions is generally dependent upon such factors as the database solution being offered, the extent and type of use by the customer, the number of users at the customer site, the scope of installation at the customer’s site, requirements for customization, any content requirements and whether we provide any custom analysis or data management services. Contracts under these subscription agreements may be terminated by either party if the other party breaches the agreement and fails to cure such breach within any applicable cure period or in the event of a bankruptcy of either party. Many of our agreements require us to update our data on a periodic basis. 12 In certain circumstances, customers may acquire a perpetual license to use certain information from our large databases. During 2005, a number of our pharmaceutical customers purchased perpetual licenses to various components of our databases. Pricing for perpetual licenses to data is generally dependent upon such factors as the data solution being offered, the extent and type of use by the customer and the number of users at the customer site. Some of our customers purchasing perpetual licenses continue as customers purchasing additional services, including licenses to other databases and microarray data generation and analysis services. We also derive a smaller but growing percentage of our revenue from a combination of toxicogenomics services, software tools, microarray data generation and analysis and other professional services and solutions (e.g., ASCENTA System and ToxShield). These services and the scope of the services we provide are based on the customer’s needs. Pricing for these services is generally dependent upon such factors as the number of samples or compounds analyzed, the type of analysis performed, the starting material provided by the customer, the type and source of GeneChip microarray used for the services and requirements for customization. Generally, contracts for services may be terminated by either party if the other party breaches the agreement and fails to cure such breach within any applicable cure period or in the event of a bankruptcy of either party. Preclinical Division Preclinical Division revenue is primarily derived from fixed price contracts with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. In addition, we derive revenue from cost plus contracts with United States Government agencies. Billings under government contracts are based on provisional billing rates which permit recovery of fringe benefits, overhead and general and administrative expenses not exceeding certain limits. These indirect expense rates are subject to review by the United States Government on an annual basis. When the final determination of the allowable rates for any year has been made, billings may be adjusted accordingly. Cost and profit estimates are reviewed periodically as the work progresses, and adjustments, if needed, are reflected in the period in which the estimates are revised. Provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are made in the period in which such losses are determined. Drug Repositioning Division We have partnerships to reposition drug candidates for pharmaceutical companies. Under these agreements we do not receive up-front revenue, other than the up-front fees paid to us by Millennium related to our assessment of a single drug candidate. We are entitled to receive milestone payments in the event that a drug candidate is returned to the partners’ development pipeline and, if a drug candidate begins commercial sales, we would be entitled to a percentage of royalties based on actual sales or other compensation. Each partner has agreed to provide a stated number of drug candidates during the term of the applicable agreement, from which we can select those to be introduced into our drug repositioning pipeline. We will conduct repositioning assessments on those drug candidates at our expense and will inform our partners of any new possible indications we identify for these drug candidates. In some instances, our partners have the right to elect to have us conduct mutually agreed upon animal model validation studies based on our hypotheses, which may be partially or entirely at our expense. Validated drug candidates would then be returned to a partner’s pipeline at its sole election. If a partner elects not to pursue a new use we identify, we may have the option to develop, license and commercialize such use, subject to payments of success-based milestones and royalties to our partner. If we acquire such rights, we could elect to either (i) out-license the development rights to such drug candidate without further development on our part, or (ii) continue to develop the drug candidate, either through our own resources or with a development partner, to a point where we can more effectively out-license the drug candidate to a third-party for final development and commercialization. In some instances, our partnerships provide us with an opportunity to acquire a full or partial ownership position in the drug candidate in exchange for paying a portion of the development costs. In these instances, we would pursue development of these drug candidates either through a third-party arrangement or by continuing to develop them to a stage when they could be out-licensed. 13 We do not expect to derive any significant revenue from milestones or royalties under these agreements in 2006. Competition Our competitors are generally different in each of our business segments. Genomics Division Our Genomics Division competes with internal capabilities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and universities worldwide which may choose to use genomics technologies to generate for their own use similar sets of gene expression or SNP data. To a lesser extent, we also compete with commercial providers who offer less extensive and, in certain instances, population-specific data (e.g., deCODE genetics, Inc.). In addition, at least one privately held company that we know of (e.g., Iconix Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) licenses an alternative toxicogenomics database and provides predictive toxicogenomics services that compete with our toxicogenomics services. In addition, we face increasing competition from a variety of public and private companies in the area of microarray data generation and analysis services, including Expression Analysis, Inc., Clinical Data, Inc., and Icoria, Inc. However, we currently believe there are no commercially available gene expression databases of comparable size and scale to that of our BioExpress and ToxExpress System databases. Our services compete on the basis of: scope and quality of services offered; price; speed of delivery of specific services; strength of reputation; size of our databases and of our staff; alternative technologies; expertise and experience in specific technological and scientific areas; subject focus of genomics and toxicogenomics data sets and technologies; our ability to acquire, handle, process, store, analyze and present complex gene expression data and clinical annotation information in a timely, quality controlled and accurate manner; and, our ability to integrate proprietary gene expression data with publicly available and other third-party generated data sets. Preclinical Division The preclinical contract research industry in the United States is dominated by two large companies: Covance, Inc. and Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. There are other providers, including mid to small, public and privately held contract research organizations and internal capabilities of drug development companies and universities. We are a niche provider in the preclinical contract research services segment; our market share of preclinical research services is small relative to that of our primary competition. Our services compete on the basis of: scope and quality of services offered; speed of delivery of specific services; strength of reputation; size; the type of capacity available within our preclinical research facilities; our relative reputation for consistent, on-time and high quality performance in completing preclinical research studies; our relative ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data from preclinical studies in a timely, quality controlled and accurate manner; compliance with regulatory standards; and, the availability of animals for use in studies. Drug Repositioning Division Currently, a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to perform repositioning for their own candidate drugs. In addition, there are companies attempting to reposition candidate drugs on behalf of drug development partners, including Perlegen Sciences, Inc., BG Medicine, Vicus Biosciences LLC, Vanda Pharmaceuticals Inc. and CombinatoRX Inc. We believe our competitors’ offerings are generally based on a single, or otherwise limited, biological approach and we are not aware of any existing competitor that has developed, or is in the process of developing, a comparable suite of technologies to that employed by us. Other companies, some of whom are not doing repositioning work, have individual technologies that could directly compete with components of our drug repositioning technology platform. Certain pharmaceutical companies have begun to assemble efforts in repositioning using their own existing technologies. However, we do not know whether their existing technologies have yet been developed to enable a rapid, cost-effective approach to systematically and efficiently evaluate the broad range of biological activity of a compound, including its effect on a wide variety of diseases, without requiring a prior disease hypothesis. Because drug repositioning is a relatively new field, we compete primarily with internal research and development departments of pharmaceutical companies. Backlog We record an order backlog only for our Preclinical Division, which includes studies and projects that are performed over periods ranging from a few weeks to several years. Our order backlog is comprised of specific commitments under signed task orders and other written obligations, and in the case of certain government contracts, includes contracts wherein funding has been committed but not yet assigned to a specific project. We exclude from our backlog revenue on studies already commenced and previously recorded. Cancelled or terminated contracts are removed from our backlog. Our aggregate backlog at December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $16 million and $18 million, respectively. 14 We believe our backlog as of any date is not necessarily a meaningful indicator of future revenue from our Preclinical Division for a variety of reasons, including the following. First, studies vary in duration. For instance, some studies that are included in the December 31, 2005 backlog may be completed in 2006, while others may be completed in later years. Second, the scope of studies may change. For instance, studies may be terminated, reduced or increased in scope or delayed at any time by the customer, which may either increase or decrease their value. Signed, but delayed, contracts remain in our backlog unless and until a customer decides to cancel the particular study or service. Third, the success or failure of a study may affect the future development of a product or may result in cancellation or modification of subsequent studies. There can be no assurance that any amounts indicated under our backlog will be recognized as revenue at any point in the future, if at all. Suppliers Genomics Division To build our genomics and toxicogenomics databases that are the basis of our Genomics Division, we enter into collaboration agreements from time to time with institutions or individuals (including a few commercial providers), to obtain specific tissues, blood samples and cell lines and associated experimental or clinical data. We pay fees under these agreements and, in the case of non-commercial providers we may provide access to software and to certain gene expression data and financial support for the collaborator’s research. Non-commercial collaboration agreements typically have a term of two to three years, subject to automatic renewal unless earlier terminated by either party. Since we’ve already compiled a broad base of general data, our efforts are currently focused on the procurement of special, high-value, difficult to obtain and rare samples. We continue to believe that none of these collaboration agreements are individually material to our operations because any one can be replaced on comparable terms with another provider. In 2005, the annual amounts payable pursuant to each non-commercial collaboration agreement generally ranged from less than $15,000 to $300,000. The costs associated with these agreements are included in our database production expenses as the tissues are used. In 2005, these costs in the aggregate were $1.6 million. To generate the gene expression data in our genomics and toxicogenomics databases and to provide microarray data generation and analysis and other services and solutions as part of our Genomics Division, we use Affymetrix, Inc. (“Affymetrix”) microarrays, reagents, instrumentation and software. We recently renegotiated, for a one year term, our supply and license agreement with Affymetrix due to the expiration in December 2005 of our prior agreement. Under terms of the renegotiated agreement, we are obligated to grant to Affymetrix a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to certain inventions we make related to their microarray technology and, under certain circumstances, to offer to negotiate with them a non-exclusive, royalty-bearing license for certain inventions we make related to sample processing. We also have agreed to purchase in 2006 a minimum of $7.6 million of microarrays, HTA plates, reagents, services under maintenance and service agreements and/or instrumentation. In addition, we are not required to pay annual license fees to Affymetrix nor royalties on any database licenses and sales commencing in 2006. The agreement also sets prices for the products, reagents and instrumentation we purchase from Affymetrix. The agreement is terminable by either party if the other party defaults under the agreement and after written notice from the non-defaulting party fails to cure the default during the applicable cure period. In the past, we also purchased from Affymetrix a reagent made by Enzo BioChem (“Enzo”). As first reported in 2004, in late 2003 Enzo terminated its distribution agreement with Affymetrix and filed suit against Affymetrix alleging in part that Affymetrix had agreements with us and other named customers to supply the reagent for use in potential violation of their rights. Subsequently, Affymetrix denied Enzo’s claims, filed counterclaims and also introduced a new alternative reagent, which we are using. The lawsuit is currently in the discovery and pretrial hearing stage. Preclinical Division For our Preclinical Division, we are not dependent on any particular suppliers of animals or services. We purchase the animals used for the studies from a number of different suppliers. 15 Drug Repositioning Division In our Drug Repositioning Division, we have a non-exclusive license and sublicense from Promega Corporation (the “Promega License”) to use the luminescence technology we use in our real-time in vivo animal imaging. The term of the agreement is for the life of the relevant patents, unless earlier terminated upon breach by either party, bankruptcy or termination of Promega’s rights by an academic institution that holds certain rights to a portion of the technology (in which case we would seek separate licenses from Promega for its technology and directly from the institution). Under the terms of the agreement, we paid Promega an initial fee and we pay Promega an annual license maintenance fee and royalties on luminescent assay reagents we use that are not purchased from Promega. We also have a non-exclusive license with Xenogen Corporation (the “Xenogen License”), for which we pay an annual license fee to use the Xenogen Imaging Technology and certain related software in connection with our use of certain imaging equipment we purchased from Xenogen for use in performing real-time in vivo animal imaging. The term of the Xenogen license ends in 2008, with a three year renewal option, subject to earlier termination if we fail to make timely payment or otherwise breach the terms of the agreement and we have agreed to indemnify Xenogen and certain other persons and entities for liability resulting from our use of the technology. Intellectual Property Rights As of December 31, 2005, we had exclusive ownership or license rights to 58 issued patents, 25 of which are United States patents, and 107 patent applications, 54 of which are United States utility (non-provisional) or provisional patent applications. We do not at this time believe that any single patent or application is individually material to our business. With respect to proprietary know-how and products and processes for which patents are of questionable value or are difficult or impossible to obtain or enforce, we rely on confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protection measures to protect our interests. We take security measures to protect our proprietary know-how and technologies and confidential data, including requiring all employees, consultants and customers to enter into confidentiality agreements. In arrangements with our customers or suppliers that require the sharing of processes and data, our policy is to make available only such data as is relevant to our agreements with such customers and suppliers, subject to appropriate contractual restrictions, including requirements for them to maintain confidentiality and use such processes and data solely for our benefit. However, such measures may not adequately protect our data. In the areas of genomics, toxicogenomics and bioinformatics technologies related to these capabilities, we seek patent rights primarily to protect our freedom to operate, and to obtain whatever exclusivity may be available under a given patent that relates to our main service offerings. We apply for patent protection on methods of obtaining and using genomic information and on databases, software, and user interface tools relating to the management and use of such information. Our applications may also contain claims to methods of identifying and using gene expression profiles and genetic markers, claims to novel genes and gene fragments, and claims to novel uses for known genes or gene fragments. We also actively file patent applications on technologies and methodologies we have developed in the field of toxicogenomics. Our toxicogenomics patent applications contain claims that cover methods of predicting toxicity, toxicity markers, statistical models, and other inventions related to our toxicogenomics program. We have a worldwide, nonexclusive, fully paid, non-transferable license for the life of certain patents from Incyte Corporation (“Incyte”) (formerly Incyte Genomics, Inc.), obtained in connection with the settlement of certain litigation in 2001, to use i) a process that Affymetrix recommends we use in the preparation of samples for use with the Affymetrix GeneChip platform; and ii) certain patent rights related to the development and use of certain types of databases. The samples and process may only be used to generate gene expression data for use in research and development. The license may be terminated by Incyte under certain limited circumstances if we: i) use certain patents outside of the permitted field of use, or induce another party to do so; ii) violate certain agreements regarding any future disputes between the parties involving these patents; or iii) violate the confidentiality provisions of the agreement. If Incyte were to terminate the license agreement on the grounds that we materially breached such agreement and if we dispute such claim, the party in whose favor the court finds would be entitled to an agreed-upon payment from the losing party. Likewise, if we claim Incyte has materially breached the License Agreement and if Incyte disputes such claim, the party in whose favor the court finds would be entitled to an agreed-upon payment from the losing party. Under the terms of our supply agreement with Affymetrix described above under “Suppliers,” we have the right to use Affymetrix products, software, systems and database patent rights to generate and use databases, license the data in such databases to third parties and provide sample processing services to generate and analyze data for a customer’s internal use for research and development. In addition, we are obligated to grant to Affymetrix a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to certain inventions we make related to their microarray technology and, under certain circumstances, to offer to negotiate with them a non-exclusive, royalty-bearing license for certain inventions we make related to sample processing. For our Drug Repositioning Division, we have acquired or obtained licenses to use certain intellectual property rights and technologies from Millennium, Xenogen and others, and we will, from time to time, continue to acquire and obtain licenses to use intellectual property rights and technologies as needed for our Drug Repositioning Division. We will also pursue patents, where appropriate, on new enabling technology used in our Drug Repositioning Division. Certain agreements with partners having rights to known drugs, under which our Drug Repositioning Division seeks new therapeutic uses for such compounds, provide us with certain intellectual property rights to those new uses. Where such agreements permit, we will pursue global patent protection for selected new uses that we have found for known drugs. 16 Government Regulation Genomics Division Our Genomics Division depends upon our continued access to and use of tissue samples and related clinical data, which are affected by regulations governing disclosure of confidential personal data, such as regulations governing the disclosure of medical information, issued by the Department of Health and Human Services under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), and applicable regulations of Canada and the European Union. We also, from time to time, perform certain experiments in our Genomics Division which must comply with applicable laboratory standards as prescribed by the Good Laboratory Practice (“GLP”) regulations promulgated by the FDA, which are more fully described under Preclinical Division below. We monitor our procedures to ensure that such procedures comply with applicable privacy regulations. The acquistion and use of human tissue by Gene Logic is generally subject to regulations imposed by the Internal Review Boards of the organizations providing such materials and to the requirements for patient informed consent. Preclinical Division Our Preclinical Division is subject to various regulatory requirements designed to ensure the quality and integrity of our testing processes. Our standard operating procedures are written in accordance with applicable regulations and guidelines for operating in the United States. The industry standards for conducting preclinical laboratory testing are embodied in GLP regulations promulgated by the FDA. In the United States, for studies intended for regulatory submission, GLP compliance is required by the FDA and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”); foreign governments may require our North American customers to comply with certain regulatory requirements of other countries (in order to gain approval within these countries), such as regulations promulgated by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (“MHLW”) and Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (“MAFF”), and in Europe, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”). GLP regulations specify requirements for facilities, equipment, and professional staff and standardized procedures for conducting studies, including procedures for recording and reporting data and for managing study materials and records. In addition, we have established a required quality assurance program that monitors ongoing compliance with GLP regulations by auditing test data and reporting and conducting inspections of testing procedures. To further ensure the quality of our Preclinical Division, we have also instituted dedicated programs for improving processes and quality, which review study data and study reports on the basis of accuracy, completeness and compliance with applicable regulations. Our Preclinical Division is subject to periodic inspection by the FDA. As a result of an inspection in October 2003, we received an FDA Warning Letter (the “FDA Letter”) in February 2005. The FDA Letter focused on issues related to two preclinical studies conducted in 2001 and 2002 by TherImmune Research Corporation, prior to its acquisition by us in 2003. The issues related to how the studies were conducted and to certain recordkeeping procedures. We worked cooperatively with the product sponsors for the two studies to address the issues raised by the FDA Letter. We submitted our response to the FDA addressing each of the violations cited in the FDA Letter identifying corrective actions we have taken, for further consideration by the FDA. Although we do not believe any further action by the FDA with regard to this report is likely, there can be no assurance that the FDA will not take further action. The FDA is required to inspect our facilities every two years. In August 2005, the FDA conducted a new inspection. At the conclusion of the inspection, they noted four observations, three of which also related to studies done prior to the acquisition of TherImmune by us and one of which related to services provided by a third party subcontractor. The inspection did not note any continuation or recurrence of discrepancies identified in the FDA Letter. We have responded to the FDA indicating how we were going to respond to those observations and improve our processes to make sure those issues relating to the noted observations did not recur and we subsequently reported to the FDA that we had taken corrective actions and implemented changes to prevent any recurrence of the noted observations. Although we do not believe any further action by the FDA with regard to this report is likely, there is no assurance that the FDA will not take further action. Our laboratory testing facilities are also subject to a variety of national, regional and local laws and regulations, including the Animal Welfare Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”). These regulations establish the standards for the humane treatment, care, use and handling of animals by dealers and research facilities. Our laboratory testing facilities maintain standard operating procedures and the documentation necessary to comply with such regulations. In addition, our laboratory testing facilities are accredited by the American Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care (“AAALAC”), are registered with the United States National Institutes of Health Office of Protection for Research Risks (“OPRR”), and comply with The Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare (“OLAW”) regulations. 17 In connection with sales of the services of our Preclinical Division to United States Government agency customers and United States Government contractors, we are also subject to applicable government procurement laws, rules and regulations, including the Federal Acquisition Regulations (“FAR”) and supplemental agency regulations. Drug Repositioning Division Similar to our Preclinical Division, although on a smaller scale, our Drug Repositioning Division operations in our Cambridge, Mass. facilities are subject to a variety of national, state and local laws and regulations, including the Animal Welfare Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”). These regulations establish the standards for the humane treatment, care, use and handling of animals by dealers and research facilities. In addition, our Cambridge facilities are registered with the United States National Institutes of Health Office of Protection for Research Risks (“OPRR”) and comply with The Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare (“OLAW”) regulations. Our Cambridge, Mass. facilities maintain standard operating procedures and the documentation necessary to comply with such regulations. General All of our laboratories are subject to licensing and regulation under federal, state and local laws relating to hazard communication and employee right-to-know regulations, the handling, storage and disposal of medical specimens, laboratory materials and hazardous waste and radioactive materials and the safety and health of laboratory employees. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety, which require us follow certain procedures including providing ongoing training and proper equipment for employees working in our facilities. Our employees receive initial and periodic training focusing on compliance with applicable hazardous materials regulations and health and safety guidelines. The use of controlled substances in our laboratory testing facilities is regulated in the United States by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) and relevant state and local agencies. All of our laboratories using controlled substances for testing purposes are subject to licensure by the DEA and applicable state agencies. The regulations of the United States Department of Transportation and the United States Postal Service apply to the transportation of laboratory specimens via surface and air. Seasonality Customer purchasing patterns do not show significant predictable seasonal variation. Human Resources As of December 31, 2005, we had 434 employees, consisting of 430 within the United States, and 4 who reside in Europe or Japan. Most of our employees are engaged directly in research, development, production and marketing and sales activities. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and management considers relations with our employees to be good. Available Information We maintain a website at www.genelogic.com. However, material contained on our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. We make available free of charge on or through our website our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports we file or furnish pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 18 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. Set forth below are risks and uncertainties we have identified as material that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K and that could have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Genomics Division To generate revenue growth and sustain profitability, we must retain existing and obtain additional customers for our Genomics Division and develop new and improved services. Our strategy depends, in part, on continued growth in revenue from our Genomics Division. To achieve such growth, we must extend existing subscriptions and expand the scope and revenue potential of agreements with existing customers and develop new customers. Each of the subscription agreements that we have with our Genomics Division customers is for a specific term. These agreements may be terminated by either party in the event of breach or bankruptcy. If subscription agreements with major customers are terminated or expire and are not extended, or existing customers fail to buy additional services, or if we fail to enter into subscription agreements with new customers, our business could suffer. In 2006, subscription agreements with five customers will expire by their terms and two agreements may terminate at the customer’s election. We received notice from one such customer of its election to terminate its agreement in 2006 and the other customer did not elect to exercise its right to terminate its agreement early. These agreements accounted for 20% of our total 2005 revenue and 28% of our 2005 Genomics Division revenue. There is no assurance that the remaining agreements scheduled to expire will be extended or that any agreements resulting from our discussions with such customers will be on terms comparable to, or as favorable to us as, the existing subscription agreements. Our future growth is also dependent upon continuing to expand our services offering and potential customer base through developing new and improving existing services and growing sales of our toxicogenomics services, software tools, microarray data generation and analysis and other professional services and solutions (e.g., ASCENTA System and ToxShield). If we fail to achieve any of these goals, our Genomics Division segment could experience financial losses and our entire business could suffer. Our genomics and toxicogenomics databases require continual upgrading and expansion, which may be difficult or expensive. To continue to build our Genomics Division, we require timely access to normal and diseased human and animal tissue samples, other biological materials and related clinical and other information. Specific tissue and blood samples that we believe will enhance the content of our databases may be difficult to obtain or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition, government regulation in the United States and foreign countries could restrict access to, or use of, human and other tissue samples and related data. If we lose access to sufficient numbers or sources of tissue samples or if tighter restrictions are imposed on our use of the information generated from tissue samples and related data, our Genomics Division may suffer. Approximately every two to three years, certain changes in the microarray platforms that we use from Affymetrix may be necessary and require us to upgrade the content of our databases, which is time-consuming and requires significant expense. Future upgrades could be more frequent, costly or difficult or some customers may want the databases to be reproduced on a different technology platform, which would be costly to implement. In 2005, we completed the upgrade of our BioExpress System database using the latest human GeneChip microarrays from Affymetrix. In 2006, we expect to upgrade our ToxExpress System database using GeneChip microarrays from Affymetrix. The genomics industry is competitive and evolving rapidly, and our Genomics Division may become obsolete or fail to be sufficiently useful. Competition exists among entities attempting to identify genes associated with specific diseases, conduct toxicity testing of compounds and develop products and services based on these discoveries. Our Genomics Division directly competes in these areas with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and other companies providing services to these industries, academic and non-profit institutions and government or other publicly funded agencies, both in the United States and abroad. We are aware that these entities are using a variety of gene expression analysis methodologies, including the use of microarrays, to attempt to identify disease-related genes and to develop and make available databases of gene expression and toxicogenomics data. In some cases, such databases and other genomic data may be publicly available, but to our knowledge none of such databases are comparable in scope or utility to ours. In addition, certain pharmaceutical companies are developing in-house genomic research programs. To compete against existing and future technologies, we will need to continue to be able to demonstrate to potential and existing customers that the technologies and capabilities supporting our Genomics Division and, specifically, the BioExpress System and ToxExpress System databases, are superior to competing technologies and/or other gene expression-based resources. 19 Our Genomics Division could become less competitive if we are not able to make the enhancements to our technology necessary to compete successfully with newly emerging technologies. The roles of genes in human biology and pathology are still being discovered. Few therapeutic products based on gene discoveries have been commercialized to date. If our customers no longer find genomics and/or toxicogenomics information useful or such information becomes obsolete as a viable drug discovery and development resource, our existing and potential customers may lose confidence in our Genomics Division and our business may suffer. The sales cycle for our Genomics Division is lengthy; we may spend considerable resources on unsuccessful sales efforts or may not be able to complete deals on the schedule we anticipate. The sales cycle for multi-year subscriptions to our BioExpress and ToxExpress System databases is estimated at nine to 15 months, and in certain circumstances could be longer. The sales cycle for our other services, including toxicogenomics reports, microarray data generation and analysis and other professional services and solutions, may not be as long but is still a matter of at least several months. The lengthy sales cycle is caused by a number of factors, including our need to educate our existing and potential customers and sell the benefits of the services of our Genomics Division to a variety of groups within such companies. In addition, each agreement may involve the negotiation of unique terms. We may expend substantial effort with no assurance that a new or extended subscription or other agreement will result. Actual and proposed consolidations of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have affected, and may in the future affect, the timing and progress of our Genomics Division sales efforts. Accordingly, our results will fluctuate because it is not always possible to effectively time the initiation of new subscription agreements or extensions of existing subscription agreements, or predict the timing of any potential resulting revenue from such agreements. We rely on microarrays and other products supplied by Affymetrix to build the underlying genomics and toxicogenomics data of our databases and to provide our microarray data generation and analysis services. Our continuing ability to build and update the gene expression data that are the foundation of our databases depends in part on the ability of Affymetrix to supply us with adequate quantities of high quality microarrays and other products and to make available licenses of technologies to use such products. We also rely on Affymetrix microarrays to provide our microarray data generation and analysis services and on a new line of SNP-based microarrays to provide our recently launched SNP genotyping services. Affymetrix provides us with microarrays, reagents, instrumentation and software under an agreement that expires December 31, 2006. There is no assurance that we can renew that agreement on terms comparable to, or as favorable to us as, the current agreement. That agreement is also terminable if we breach the agreement and fail to cure any breach within the applicable cure period. If Affymetrix is unable or unwilling to supply us with the products and licenses we require on acceptable terms or if the microarrays are unavailable or defective or otherwise unreliable, we may incur additional database production costs and we may need to obtain alternative technologies. Alternative technologies may not be available to us, or may only be available to us on unfavorable terms. Restricted or curtailed access to such products could cause our Genomics Division to suffer by preventing or delaying our ability to provide our services or increasing the cost to generate additional content for our databases, as well as causing us to be delayed or unable to meet content update obligations under existing Genomics Division subscription agreements. Risks Related to our Preclinical Division The results of operations of our Preclinical Division will be adversely affected if we cannot obtain additional contracts to generate greater revenue from existing and new customers. To reduce losses and achieve profitability in our Preclinical Division, we must obtain contracts to perform studies in order to generate greater revenue from existing and new customers and we must obtain the types of studies that can allow us to optimally use the capacity of our study facilities. Factors that could prevent us from obtaining adequate numbers, or appropriate types, of contracts for studies on a timely basis include the factors set forth in “Risks Related to our Preclinical Division” and whether we can provide competitive pricing vis-a-vis our competitors whose fixed cost structures are lower because of higher order volume and higher and better utilization of capacity, and whether the FDA Letter will continue to have a negative impact on our reputation for quality studies. In addition, demand by biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies for in-life animal studies to test the safety of their candidate compounds can fluctuate based on internal development pipeline issues, including whether they have candidates ready for such pre-IND studies and internal choices regarding resource allocation. 20 Failure to grow our Preclinical Division or the absence of viable strategic alternatives for this business could result in continuing material losses. Our goal for our Preclinical Division is to improve its financial and operational performance. If we continue to experience suboptimal demand for our services, to experience underutilization of our capacity and to realize ongoing losses for this division and if we are unable to identify and implement acceptable strategic alternatives for the business, the Preclinical Division could cause us to continue to experience material losses. Failure to provide quality studies could result in a loss of or inability to obtain additional business for our Preclinical Division. If we fail to provide services with a level of quality acceptable to our customers (e.g., in compliance with agreed study protocols, operating procedures, regulatory requirements, industry standards and customer expectations), we may be required to repeat the study at our expense, or refund amounts paid to us for the study, and we may experience an adverse effect on our reputation and lose business. Failure to comply with existing regulations could result in a loss of revenue or increased costs from our Preclinical Division. Our Preclinical Division is subject to extensive regulation and we are subject to periodic audit for compliance by regulatory authorities, including the FDA and the DEA. Any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of ongoing studies or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities or other regulatory action. If this were to happen, we could incur additional compliance costs or be subject to additional regulatory restrictions, we could be contractually required to repeat a study at no further cost to our customer or refund the cost of the study and customers might choose not to enter into or to renew contracts for our Preclinical Division in the future. We are also accredited by an industry approval group named The Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International, commonly referred to as “AAALAC”. AAALAC is a private nonprofit organization that promotes the humane treatment of animals in science through a voluntary accreditation program. Generally, our customers insist that their vendors be AAALAC accredited and, if we were to fail an inspection or lose our accreditation, our Preclinical Division would be severely impacted. In addition, our use of animals for our Preclinical Division is also regulated by the United States Department of Agriculture. Our Preclinical Division is subject to periodic inspection by the FDA. As a result of an inspection in October 2003, we received an FDA Warning Letter (the “FDA Letter”) in February 2005. The FDA Letter focused on issues related to two preclinical studies conducted in 2001 and 2002 by TherImmune Research Corporation, prior to its acquisition by us in 2003. The issues related to how the studies were conducted and to certain recordkeeping procedures. We worked cooperatively with the product sponsors for the two studies to address the issues raised by the FDA Letter. We submitted our response to the FDA, addressing each of the violations cited in the FDA Letter and identifying corrective actions we have taken, for further consideration by the FDA. Although we do not believe any further action by the FDA with regard to this report is likely, there can be no assurance that the FDA will not take further action. While the Company is unable to quantify the impact of the FDA Letter, based on discussions with current and prospective customers, the FDA Letter has had a negative effect on the Company’s customers’ perception regarding the Company’s ability to provide preclinical contract research services. The FDA is required to inspect our facilities every two years. In August 2005, the FDA conducted a new inspection. At the conclusion of the inspection, they noted four observations, three of which also related to studies done prior to the acquisition of TherImmune by us and one of which related to services provided by a third party subcontractor. The inspection did not note any continuation or recurrence of discrepancies identified in the FDA Letter. We have responded to the FDA indicating how we were going to respond to those observations and improve our processes to make sure those issues relating to the noted observations did not recur and subsequently reported that we had taken corrective actions and implemented changes to prevent any recurrence of the noted observations. Although we do not believe any further action by the FDA with regard to this report is likely, there is no assurance that the FDA will not take further action. 21 Continuing negative performance of our Preclinical Division could affect the value of goodwill and creates risk to our results of operations. In 2003, we recorded goodwill of $43.0 million as a result of the acquisition of TherImmune. (now Gene Logic Laboratories Inc., our Preclinical Division). Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, we are required to perform an annual impairment test of our goodwill and are required to test for impairment whenever we have an indication that impairment may exist. During September 2005, we determined that the carrying value of the goodwill associated with our Preclinical Division was likely impaired, due to lower than expected performance, including lower than anticipated revenue and declining gross margins and, in the fourth quarter of 2005, we recorded a non-cash expense of $32.8 million representing the implied impairment of goodwill. Our estimates for future periods of the net cash flows may change as market conditions and circumstances dictate. Future impairment tests of our goodwill may result in additional impairment charges based on these changing estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our results of operations may suffer if studies conducted by our Preclinical Division are delayed or reduced in scope, performed improperly or terminated or if contracts are not priced properly. Our contracts for our Preclinical Division provide that services may be delayed, reduced in scope or terminated upon written notice. Terminations, delays or reductions may occur for a variety of reasons, including the failure of products to satisfy safety requirements, unfavorable interim test results of the study services, lack of availability of test material, the customer's decision to terminate the development of a test compound or to end a particular study, and our failure to perform properly our duties under the study services contract. Any delay, reduction in scope or termination could cause us to be unable to recover our costs or to realize profit on the affected contract and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If a study is improperly performed, we may have to repeat the study at our expense, refund the customer for the cost of the study and/or provide other remedies. Under fixed price contracts, there is the risk that we will improperly price one or more such contracts, which could result in our not recovering our anticipated costs or profit from such contracts. Under cost plus contracts with United States Government agencies, there is the risk of disallowance by such agencies of certain costs as a result of specific regulations and audits. Although our Preclinical Division contracts may entitle us to receive costs through the date of termination and, in some instances, a portion of our profit or a cancellation fee, it may be difficult to collect such amounts from a customer who has decided to terminate a study. We rely on third parties to supply us with animals. For our Preclinical Division, we purchase the animals used for our studies from a number of different suppliers, two of which are our major competitors. We don’t generally have problems with an adequate supply of these animals, although from time to time there can be temporary shortages for a particular species due to unanticipated demand, vendor-related events, health issues and other factors, which could lead to delays in commencing studies or possible cancellation of studies. Certain large animals, which are necessary to conduct certain studies and are only available abroad, may be more difficult to obtain. The supply of these animals can be affected by factors beyond our control, including but not limited to, export and import regulations and practices, natural disasters, political unrest, disease outbreaks, competition for supply and the limited number of potential suppliers and sources. Such shortages could be of lengthy duration and could result in delays or cancellations of higher value studies. Preclinical research services may expose us to liability and related risks. To the extent that our customers develop or use products based on our studies, if studies are not properly performed, we may be exposed to liability. Contractual indemnifications generally do not protect us against liability arising from certain of our own actions, such as negligence or misconduct. We could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any claim which is not covered by a contractual indemnification provision and is outside of or exceeds our insurance coverage or in the event that a party who must indemnify us does not fulfill its indemnification obligations. While we currently maintain professional liability insurance, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us against future claims. Furthermore, our customers may not indemnify us against these types of claims or may not themselves be adequately insured or, in the case of smaller companies, have a net worth sufficient to satisfy any liability claims. Actions of animal rights extremists may affect our business. Our Preclinical Division requires the use of animals in our testing studies of the safety and efficacy of candidate compounds. Acts of vandalism and other wrongful acts by animal rights extremists who object to the use of animals in drug development could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have taken certain security measures to protect our Preclinical Division employees and facilities, we cannot prevent all actions that may be taken by animal rights extremists. 22 Risks Related to Our Drug Repositioning Division The development of the repositioning technologies for our Drug Repositioning Division creates risks and uncertainties. The technologies that form the foundation of our Drug Repositioning Division require further development and such development could take longer or cost more than we anticipate. The development of the technologies could prove to be less effective than we need in order to offer these services effectively. Moreover, the mere development of these technologies does not assure that they will, in turn, enable us to be successful in determining potential alternative therapeutic uses for our partners’ drug candidates or that we will be able to utilize these technologies at capacity levels that will enable us to achieve our business objectives. In addition, these technologies may rely on inventions to which third parties have obtained or are obtaining patent or other rights and we may need to in-license rights to use such inventions. We may not be able to obtain or retain license rights needed for one or more of these technologies on terms acceptable to us. In particular, we license certain technology in connection with certain products purchased from Xenogen Corporation and we also purchase and license the right to use Luciferase from Promega Corporation. The Xenogen license is for a term ending in 2008 with an option to renew for an additional three years. The Promega license is for a period ending on the expiration or abandonment of the last of the valid claims of the licensed patent rights. Each of these licenses is terminable if we breach the agreement and fail to cure such breach within the applicable cure period. In addition, the Promega license includes a sublicense to rights owned by an academic institution and the license from Promega would terminate if the license to Promega from the academic institution terminated. If either of these agreements were to terminate while the relevant patent claims were enforceable and if we were not able to obtain new licenses, we would have to abandon or substantially revise one of the key technologies used in our drug repositioning process. Even if we successfully develop the repositioning technologies for our Drug Repositioning Division, these technologies may be quickly replaced, thereby making our current approach obsolete, or others may acquire or develop the same or similar technologies which could create competition for our services and, ultimately, could cause material risk of financial losses. Pharmaceutical companies and other companies and research organizations are developing individual technologies for better understanding the complex biological processes affected by compounds and selecting, purposing and repurposing compounds. Such other parties may elect to use such technologies internally, in lieu of using our services, or may successfully offer such services based on their technologies in competition against us. While we have license rights related to certain of the technologies that comprise the technology platform for our Drug Repositioning Division, we do not currently have issued patents to any of the technologies and our license rights are generally non-exclusive. We will seek patents or other protection on other elements of the technologies we use to reposition drug compounds. We may not be able to obtain such protection or the technology may become obsolete. We may be required to invest significant resources in identifying alternative uses for our partners’ compounds and we may not realize significant revenue from successfully repositioned drug candidates based on our work. Our Drug Repositioning Division agreements provide revenue primarily from success-based milestones and royalties based on the successful repositioning and commercial sales of drug candidates. Typically, we have agreed to perform our Drug Repositioning Division assessments without up-front payments. Accordingly, we may need to invest significant resources in seeking alternative uses for one or more partners’ drug candidates using our repositioning technologies, and we may find no new or alternative uses for these compounds. If we identify new or alternative uses for a given compound, we may not be able to realize any value from the identification of such alternative use until our partner determines, if ever, that the use makes the compound sufficiently desirable to warrant further development and commercialization. We do not control when, on what schedule or whether a partner will accept a drug candidate for redevelopment or at what pace, if at all, the partner will conduct further development effort of such repositioned drug candidate. Such decisions may be affected by internal policies and organization and other factors of which we may not be aware and over which we will have no influence. 23 In the event that a partner declined to develop a compound for an indication we had found, we could acquire rights to develop that compound for particular indications and, if we were to elect to pursue development of any such compound, any such development would require that we promptly find a partner and/or that we invest substantial financial and other resources to develop the product to a stage where we could license it out to a third-party for final development and commercialization. We have not engaged in compound development to date and there can be no assurance that we would be successful in conducting such development or in identifying a licensing partner to continue such development on terms that would be profitable to us. These factors may limit our ability to earn significant revenue under any of our agreements. Our approach to drug repositioning may not yield sufficient new indications and thus measurable successes to gain wide-spread market acceptance. We may not succeed in achieving significant commercial market acceptance of any of our technologies used in drug repositioning activities because the technologies we use and our approach to drug repositioning may fail to generate sufficient new indications and thus measurable success for our pharmaceutical partners. This outcome would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and market valuation. The sales cycle for our Drug Repositioning Division is lengthy; we may spend considerable resources on unsuccessful sales efforts or may not be able to complete deals on the schedule we anticipate. Our Drug Repositioning Division strategy depends upon our ability to establish collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical partners to repurpose current clinical failures in their pipelines. If our Drug Repositioning Division is unable to establish partnerships with sufficient additional pharmaceutical companies, we may not be able to obtain enough compounds for repurposing and, ultimately, to recoup the investment we will have made in the development of this business. Our ability to obtain new customers depends upon our ability to convince them that our drug repositioning approach and technology platform can increase productivity for their drug development efforts. The sales cycle for our Drug Repositioning Division partnerships can take up to 12 months, and in certain circumstances longer, to complete. The lengthy sales cycle is caused by a number of factors, including our need to educate potential customers on the benefits of our approach to drug repositioning and the technologies we use. In addition, each agreement may involve the negotiation of terms in a context not familiar to our partners. We may expend substantial effort with no assurance that a new agreement will result. Actual and proposed consolidations of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies could affect the timing and progress of our Drug Repositioning Division sales efforts. Furthermore, we may not be able to convince other customers to enter into agreements for services or on terms that are acceptable to us. Other Risks We have a history of operating losses that are likely to continue for some time. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception, including losses of $48.3 million in 2005, $28.5 million in 2004 and $24.8 million in 2003. At December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $261.0 million. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in the development, marketing and sale of services from our Genomics and Preclinical Divisions, development of the Drug Repositioning Division, the impairment of goodwill described herein, and acquisitions of research and development. These costs have exceeded our revenue and we expect to incur additional losses in the future, including substantial losses relating to the ongoing development costs of our Drug Repositioning Division. Our revenue is derived primarily from, and is subject to risks faced by, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in the United States, Japan, Europe and other foreign countries; our revenue is also subject to foreign currency risk. 24 We expect that our revenue will continue to be derived primarily from agreements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as United States Government agencies. As a consequence, our results of operations may fluctuate substantially due to fluctuations or delays in our customers’ research and development expenditures and other factors affecting their purchasing decisions. These factors include: · fluctuations in current or potential customers’ research and development budgets; · changes in national or international economic conditions; · access to capital markets by current or potential biotechnology customers; · market-driven pressures on current or potential customers to improve productivity efficiencies through consolidation, cost reduction and overall research and development effectiveness; · decisions by current or potential customers to purchase new, improved and/or alternative technologies; · pressure to limit government spending in sectors relevant to our business or changes in government procurement practices, including the process for determining reimbursement rates related to United States Government contracts; · mergers and acquisitions within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry resulting in fewer potential customers for our services and solutions; · new or more stringent application of FDA and other laws and regulations in the drug approval process; and · regulatory reviews by the FDA or other regulatory bodies that could delay or increase costs associated with drug development. In addition, beginning in 2005, contracts with our Japanese customers are payable in Japanese Yen and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. None of these factors is within our control. Certain investments made by the Company may fluctuate in value and may create an adverse impact on our financial performance; the value of certain of our intangibles and long-term investments creates risk to our financial performance. We’ve previously recorded value for goodwill and other intangible assets, including licenses to technologies or data, patent costs and software development and database upgrade costs which, at December 31, 2005, had an aggregate value of $26.3 million. Whether or not these intangible assets are impaired involves significant judgment, including the following: (i) whether our licenses and internally developed intellectual property may not provide valid and economical competitive advantage; and (ii) whether our services we provide may become obsolete before we recover the costs incurred in connection with their development. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, we are required to perform periodic reviews of our intangible assets and we may be required to reduce the value of these assets if circumstances change. In addition, we have an investment in MetriGenix, Inc. with a book value as of December 31, 2005 of $3.2 million. This investment is subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. Since MetriGenix is an independent company in which we are a minority stockholder, the factors affecting an impairment analysis, which include potential revenue, cost of capital and fair market value of the entity, is not within our control. In the future, this investment may require an impairment charge in the future. We may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection for new technologies and methods required for achieving our business objectives. Our success will depend in part on our ability to protect confidential information and to obtain intellectual property rights and licenses sufficient to provide adequate exclusivity and to preserve our freedom to operate. We rely on confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protective measures to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and technology that are not patentable or for which patents are difficult to enforce. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary know-how and confidential data and continue to explore further methods of protection. While we require all employees, consultants and customers with access to our trade secrets to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that we will be able to protect our trade secrets. We also rely on confidentiality procedures to prevent public disclosure of patentable proprietary technology prior to filing patents. Any material leak of confidential information into the public domain, or to third parties, could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer adverse consequences, including possible loss of patent rights. Our patent position involves complex legal and factual questions. Legal standards relating to the validity and scope of claims in the genomics technology field are still evolving. Therefore, the degree of exclusivity that future patent protection may provide for our proprietary technologies in this field is uncertain. Likewise, legal standards relating to validity of claims to new methods of using known drugs are still evolving. Hence, the likelihood of patenting potential new therapeutic uses of drug repositioning candidates also is uncertain. 25 Specific risks and uncertainties that we face in the area of patent exclusivity include: · the pending patent applications we have filed, or to which we have licensed rights, may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; · the claims of any patents which are issued on our pending applications may not provide commercially meaningful protection or value; · the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide adequate exclusivity for all aspects of our proprietary genomics technology; · other companies may challenge patents issued or licensed to us; and · we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection for commercialization of a potential new use of a successfully repositioned drug candidate. We may need to initiate patent enforcement litigation or be subject to future infringement claims. In addition, other organizations, including companies, academic and non-profit institutions and governmental organizations are developing technologies in the genomics and drug repositioning fields. Many of these technologies are subject to the same evolving legal standards and related uncertainties about patent protection as our proprietary technologies. Therefore, it may be necessary for us to initiate litigation to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We also face risks that patents issued to other organizations may restrict our ability to do business, and that we may be unable to obtain or maintain licenses providing freedom to operate on acceptable terms. Thus, the technologies that we use to develop our services, and those that we incorporate in our services, may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. In particular, we are aware of a number of patents and patent applications owned by others relating to genetic markers and to the analysis of gene expression or the manufacture and use of microarrays and related materials. Therefore, we could be sued by parties alleging patent infringement. The risk of involvement in patent litigation may increase as the genomics, biotechnology and software industries and drug repositioning businesses expand, more patents are issued and other organizations engage in our business fields. We could incur substantial litigation costs to defend ourselves in patent infringement suits brought by other parties or to initiate such suits. In addition, patent litigation could cause disruption in our business activities and divert management’s time and attention from the operation of our business. In that regard, we have in the past purchased reagents from Affymetrix made by Enzo, and we also purchased such reagents directly from Enzo. In late 2003, Enzo terminated the agreement under which Affymetrix distributed that reagent and filed suit against Affymetrix. Affymetrix subsequently filed a counter suit and the two suits were consolidated. In those suits, Enzo alleges, among other things, rights to certain Affymetrix technologies and that Affymetrix had agreements with Gene Logic and other named customers to supply the reagent for use in potential violation of their rights. Affymetrix has denied Enzo’s claims and made its own counterclaims. We have not been made a party to that suit; we cannot predict the outcome of this litigation, its effect on us or the potential, if any, for claims being made against us. We have commenced using a new Affymetrix reagent kit. Although we have had discussions with Enzo to attempt to resolve any claims Enzo believes it may have with respect to our use of Enzo’s reagent, we have not reached any agreement as of the date of this Form 10-K. Our activities involve hazardous materials and may subject us to environmental liability. Certain activities of our businesses involve the controlled use of limited quantities of hazardous and radioactive materials and may generate biological waste. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could lose our permits and/or approvals or be held liable for damages or penalized with fines. We believe that we comply in all material respects with currently applicable environmental laws and regulations and do not expect near term material additional capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. However, we may have to incur significant costs in the future to comply with environmental laws and regulations. At present, we also believe we have appropriate insurance coverage against hazardous materials claims. Our stock price could be volatile and could decline. The market prices for securities of biotechnology and other technology companies serving the healthcare industry have been volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices for these securities for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Events or factors that may have a significant impact on our business and on the market price of our Common Stock include those in the Risk Factors set forth in this section and the following: · slowing of revenue growth in our base business; · quarterly and annual financial and operating results; · failure to meet estimates or expectations of securities analysts or our projections; · sales and/or purchases of our Common Stock by members of our senior management and Board of Directors; · announcements by us or others of technological innovations or new products or announcements regarding our services and solutions; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights; · the loss of significant licenses or supply agreements; · future sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock by our existing stockholders; · changing market perception regarding investments in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; · results of clinical trials of potential repurposed drug candidates resulting from our Drug Repositioning Division; and · general market conditions. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our Common Stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of Common Stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our Common Stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 ITEM 