D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Mexico, Other Emerging Market Countries and the U.S. Economy Mexico has experienced adverse economic conditions If the Mexican economy experiences decreased output in a recession, or if inflation or interest rates significantly increase, consumers may not be able to purchase our products. These and other effects could have adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The chart below includes Mexican gross domestic product (“GDP”) and Inflation Rate data from 2005-2009, as provided by the Central Bank. Period GDP Inflation Rate 2005 3.0 % 3.33 % 2006 4.8 % 4.05 % 2007 3.3 % 3.80 % 2008 1.3 % 6.50 % 2009 -6.5 % 3.57 % Depreciation or fluctuation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations The single largest component of our cost of sales, our feed, is comprised partially of ingredients we purchase from the United States, where prices are denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, the prices of ingredients we purchase in Mexico may be influenced by U.S. commodity markets. Therefore, should the peso fall relative to the U.S. dollar, the cost of our operations, some accounts payable due and our debt payments would increase. Any future depreciation or devaluation of the peso may result in further net foreign exchange losses. · In 2005, the Mexican peso appreciated with respect to the U.S. dollar by 4.9% at the end of the year and the average value of the Mexican peso was 3.6% higher. · In 2006, the Mexican peso was reasonably stable in its peso-dollar exchange rate with a final depreciation of 1.6%, compared to the end of 2005. The average value of the Mexican peso was 0.1% lower than the average of 2005. · In 2007, the Mexican peso remained reasonably stable in its peso-dollar exchange rate. According to the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank, the peso depreciated with respect to the U.S. dollar by 1.1% at year-end. The average value of the Mexican peso was 0.2% lower than the average of 2006. 6 · In 2008, the Mexican peso was highly volatile during the year in its peso-dollar exchange rate with a final depreciation of 21.0%, compared to the end of 2007. The average value of the Mexican peso was 1.9% lower than the average in 2007. · In 2009, the Mexican peso experienced greater stability during the second half of the year in its peso-dollar exchange rate, with a final appreciation of 5.4%, compared to the end of 2008. The average value of the Mexican peso was 17.4% lower than the average in 2008. The Company uses financial instruments to counter financial risks on the exchange rate of the Mexican peso versus the U.S. dollar; a drastic change in the exchange rate could have an adverse impact on the financial position of the Company. Severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit our ability to transfer or to convert pesos into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness and some accounts payable. While the Mexican government does not currently restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer other currencies out of Mexico, the government could institute restrictive exchange rate policies in the future. Currency fluctuations will probably continue to affect our revenues and expenses. Furthermore, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the peso and the U.S. dollar will also affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of the peso price of our Shares (the “Shares” or “Series B Shares”) in the Mexican Stock Exchange and the price of American Depository Shares (“ADSs”) on the New York Stock Exchange. Because we pay cash dividends in pesos, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the U.S. dollar amounts received by holders of American Depository Receipts (“ADRs”) upon conversion of such cash dividends by the Depositary. High levels of inflation and high interest rates in Mexico could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations According to the Central Bank, the average interest rates on 28-day Mexican treasury bills, or Cetes, was 9.2%, 7.2% , 7.2%, 7.6% and 5.4% during 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. On June 14, 2010, the 28-day Cetes rate was 4.6%. High interest rates in Mexico could adversely affect our costs. Our earnings may also be affected by changes in interest rates due to the impact those changes have on our variable-rate debt instruments and may benefit from the interest we earn in our cash balance. Political events in Mexico could affect Mexican economic policy and our operations Felipe Calderón was elected as President of Mexico in July of 2006. President Calderón’s party, the Partido Acción Nacional, or PAN, obtained a plurality of the seats in the Mexican Congress after the election; no party succeeded in securing a majority in either chamber of the Mexican Congress. The absence of a clear majority by a single party and the lack of alignment between the president-elect and the legislature have continued following the 2009 Congressional election. This situation may result in government gridlock and political uncertainty, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We cannot provide any assurance that future political developments in Mexico over which we have no control will not have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 7 Developments in other emerging market countries may adversely affect our business or the market price of our securities The market value of securities of Mexican companies is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors’ reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers. We cannot assure you that the market value of our securities will not be adversely affected by events elsewhere, especially in emerging markets. Developments in the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business Economic conditions in Mexico are heavily influenced by the condition of the U.S. economy due to various factors, including commercial trade pursuant to the North American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”), U.S. investment in Mexico and emigration from Mexico to the United States. Events and conditions affecting the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Risks Relating to our Organization The chicken industry is characterized by long-term price declines and cyclical periods The Mexican chicken industry, like the chicken industry in other countries, has been characterized by a long-term decline in prices in real terms. The industry has undergone cyclical periods of higher prices and profitability, followed by overproduction, leading to periods of lower prices and profitability. Real prices for eggs and swine in Mexico have also declined over the long term and have varied cyclically. The market that we serve is subject to volatility with respect to supply, which affects prices. We cannot assure you that future cyclicality, excess supply and downturns in real prices will not adversely affect our results. The price of feed ingredients is subject to significant volatility The largest single component of our cost of sales is the cost of ingredients used to prepare feed, including sorghum, soybean meal, corn, fish meal, meat meal and, for certain chicken products, marigold extract. The price of most of our feed ingredients is subject to significant volatility resulting from weather, the size of harvests, transportation and storage costs, governmental agricultural policies, currency exchange rates and other factors. Given the long-term declining trends in real chicken prices, we may experience difficulty or delays in passing any increase in grain costs to customers. Accordingly, increases in the prices of the main ingredients used in the preparation of feed may have a material adverse effect on our margins and results of operations. Since we purchase many feed ingredients in U.S. dollars, from time to time we may acquire financial instruments to protect us against exchange rate fluctuations that may affect future purchases of feed ingredients. In particular, corn prices began to decline in comparison with previous years by the end of 2008. In 2009, such prices were lower and more stable. We can offer no assurance that corn and soybean meal prices will not continue to experience strong volatility in the future. If such prices begin to increase again, our profits could be adversely affected. The Company uses financial instruments to counter financial risks as protection against adverse fluctuations in the prices of corn and soybean. A drastic change in grain prices could have an adverse impact on the financial position of the Company. 8 Our operations depend on raising animals and meat processing, which are subject to risks such as diseases, contamination, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters Our operations involve raising animals and are subject to a variety of risks. Chickens in particular are susceptible to infections by a variety of microbiological agents. In the past, we have experienced limited outbreaks of various diseases that have resulted in higher mortality rates. During 2005, there was an ample diffusion in the media worldwide of a particular strain of AIV (H5N1), mainly in Asia and some European countries, which affected consumption of chicken in those countries. At the present time, this strain has not been found in birds in the United States or in Latin America. Meat and eggs are subject to contamination during processing and distribution. We do not believe that contamination of individual shipments during distribution would have a material adverse effect on our operations. Contamination during processing, however, could affect a larger number of our poultry products and therefore could have a more significant impact on operations. Hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions could result in additional losses of inventory and damage to our plants and equipment. Our facilities near Mexico’s coast are most vulnerable to the risk of severe weather. In 2006, we experienced a loss of chickens in our Norwest Complex due to the effects of Hurricane Lane. In April 2010, the table eggs operation located in Mexicali, B.C. was affected by an earthquake that hit northwestern Mexico on April 4. The earthquake partially affected almost all of the farms located in this region, including our farm. Our affected farm represents approximately 9.0% of our total egg production. Other facilities, such as feed mill and distribution centers, were essentially undamaged. The use of nutritional supplements and the possibility of contamination expose us to risk of loss of consumer confidence in the chicken industry To reduce contamination, we use specialized feedstock and nutritional supplements that have been approved by the Mexican government and meet international industry standards. We can offer no assurance, however, that in the future we will not be materially adversely affected by claims or consumer concerns arising out of the use of these products in raising our animals. Our sales are entirely dependent on consumer preferences, and the loss of consumer confidence in the products sold by Mexican meat and egg producers as a result of disease, contamination or other reasons, even if not related to our own products, could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. We face significant competition from other chicken producers in all of our geographic markets and product lines According to the UNA, we are Mexico’s largest chicken producer, but we face competition from other producers in all of the markets in which we sell our products. In 2009, we accounted for approximately 34.0% of total chicken production in Mexico. There are two other major vertically integrated chicken producers in Mexico, which together with Bachoco account for approximately 59.0% of Mexican chicken production, with the balance distributed among 178 small and medium-sized integrated and non-integrated producers. 9 Each of the two other major companies has substantial financial resources and strengths in particular product lines and regions. We expect to continue to face strong competition in every market, as our existing or new competitors are likely to broaden their product lines and extend their geographic coverage. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our performance will not be adversely affected by increased competition. We face increased competition from U.S. producers Since 2003, chicken (excluding leg quarters for which the Mexican government imposed some temporary restrictions), eggs and swine import quotas were eliminated through the North America Free Trade Agreement or “NAFTA”. Poultry producers in the United States have developed extremely low-cost production methods and have been successful in exporting primarily frozen and value-added poultry to other countries, especially in periods of overcapacity in the United States. As tariff barriers decline under NAFTA, U.S. producers can be expected to increase exports to Mexico, which could have a material adverse effect on our performance. On January 1, 2008, the restrictions for leg quarters were phased out. At present there are no restrictions on importing these products into Mexico. We are a holding company with no substantial operations and depend on our subsidiaries for cash flow We are a holding company with no substantial operations and, consequently, we are dependent on dividends and other payments from subsidiaries for virtually all of our cash flow, including cash flow to pay taxes, service debt, make equity investments, finance the growth of subsidiaries and pay dividends to stockholders. Together with Mexican law, our ability to pay dividends may, in the future, be limited by financial covenants in debt instruments that we, or our subsidiaries, may acquire. Risks Relating to the ADS, and the Shares in the Mexican Market The Robinson Bours family controls our management and their interests may differ from other security holders Certain members of the Robinson Bours family hold the power to elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors and have the power to determine the outcome of certain other actions requiring the approval of our stockholders, including whether or not dividends are to be paid and the amount of such dividends. The Robinson Bours family has established two Mexican trusts, which they control (“Control Trust”), that together held 496,500,000 Shares outstanding on December 31, 2007. In November of 2008, the Robinson Bours family created a third trust with 102,000,000 Shares, which were taken from one of the existing trusts. The purpose of this new trust was to serve as collateral for the Company’s loan indebtedness. In the second half of 2009, this third trust was eliminated and the Shares were returned to the original trust. The trusts together accounted for 496,500,000 Shares outstanding on December 31, 2009 and there has been no change in the position of each holder. Future sales of Shares by the controlling stockholders may affect prevailing market prices for the ADS’s and the Shares trading at the Mexican Market. The prevailing market prices for the ADS’s and the Shares could decline if the Robinson Bours family sold substantial amounts of their Shares, whether directly, or indirectly, through the Mexican trusts through which they hold their Shares, or if the perception arose that such a sale could occur. The protection afforded to minority stockholders in Mexico is different from that in the United States Under Mexican law, the protection afforded to minority stockholders is different from those in the United States. In particular, the law concerning fiduciary duties of directors is not well developed, there is no procedure for class actions or stockholder derivative actions, and there are different procedural requirements for bringing stockholder lawsuits. As a result, in practice it may be more difficult for the minority stockholders of Bachoco to enforce their rights against us or our directors or our controlling stockholder than it would be for stockholders of a U.S. company. 10 Our bylaws restrict the ability of non-Mexican stockholders to invoke the protection of their governments with respect to their rights as stockholders As required by Mexican law, our bylaws provide that non-Mexican stockholders shall be considered as Mexicans with respect to their ownership interests in Bachoco and shall be deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of their governments in certain circumstances. Under this provision, a non-Mexican stockholder is deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of its own government by asking such government to interpose a diplomatic claim against the Mexican government with respect to the stockholder’s rights as a stockholder, but is not deemed to have waived any other rights it may have, including any rights under the U.S. securities laws, with respect to its investment in Bachoco. If you invoke such governmental protection in violation of this agreement, your Shares could be forfeited to the Mexican government. Our bylaws may only be enforced in Mexico Our bylaws provide that legal actions relating to the execution, interpretation or performance of the bylaws may be brought only in Mexican courts. As a result, it may be difficult for non-Mexican stockholders to enforce their stockholder rights pursuant to the bylaws. It may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons We are organized under the laws of Mexico, and most of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside the United States. In addition, all of our assets and their assets are located in Mexico. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to affect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them. This pertains also to any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Mexico, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. Non-Mexican stockholders may not be entitled to participate in future preemptive rights offerings Under Mexican law and our bylaws, if we issue new Shares for cash as part of a capital increase, we must grant our stockholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of Shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage in the Company (“preemptive rights”). We can allow holders of ADSs in the United States to exercise preemptive rights in any future capital increase only in one of the following two circumstances: (i) we file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to that future issuance of Shares; or (ii) the offering qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. We make no promises that we will file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to allow holders of ADSs in the United States to participate in a preemptive rights offering. As a result, the equity interests of such holders in the Company may be diluted proportionately. In addition, under current Mexican law, it is not practicable for the depositary to sell preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds from such sales to ADS holders. Corporate disclosure and accounting in Mexico may differ from other countries There may be less, or different, publicly available information about issuers of securities in Mexico than is regularly published by or about issuers of securities in other countries with highly developed capital markets. In addition, due to country-by-country differences in accounting and other reporting principles and standards, our corporate disclosures may differ in content from disclosures made under other principles and standards, such as U.S. GAAP. 11 ITEM 