ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You are encouraged to review the discussion of Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors appearing in this report at Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.” In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, operating results, earnings or stock price, in various ways. The risks described in this report are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. • Macroeconomic conditions beyond our control could lead to decreases in demand for our products, reduced profitability or deterioration in the quality of our working capital. Domestic and international economic, political and social conditions are uncertain due to a variety of factors, including: • global, regional and national economic downturns and financial stability; • the availability and cost of credit; • volatility in stock and credit markets; • energy costs; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • the risk of global conflict; • the risk of terrorism, political turmoil, or war in a given country or region; and • natural disasters and public health issues. Our business depends on our customers’ demand for our products and services, the general economic health of current and prospective customers, and their desire or ability to make investments in technology. A deterioration of global, regional or local political, economic or social conditions could affect potential customers in ways that reduce demand for our products and disrupt our manufacturing and sales plans and efforts. These global, regional or local conditions may also cause governments to change their spending priorities, which may delay, reduce or eliminate funding for our products and services. Acts of terrorism, wars, natural disasters, public health issues and increased energy costs could disrupt commerce in ways that could impair our supply chain and our ability to get products to our customers and increase our manufacturing and delivery costs. Changes or increased volatility of our foreign currency exchange rates may negatively impact reported revenue and expenses. In addition, our sales are typically made on unsecured credit terms that are generally consistent with the prevailing business practices in the country in which the customer is located. A deterioration of political, economic or social conditions in a given country or region could reduce or eliminate our ability to collect accounts receivable in that country or region. In any of these events, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our cash flows and earnings. Due to our global operations, our cash flows, revenue and earnings are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our international sales are quoted, billed and collected in the customer’s local currency in EMEA and in U.S. dollars elsewhere. Our product costs are largely denominated in U.S. dollars. Therefore, our product margins are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may also affect the cost of goods and services that we purchase and personnel that we employ outside of the United States. When appropriate, we may attempt to limit our exposure to exchange rate changes by entering into short-term currency exchange contracts. There is no assurance that we will hedge or will be able to hedge such foreign currency exchange risk or that our hedges will be successful. Our currency exchange gains or losses (net of hedges) may materially and adversely impact our cash flows and earnings. Additionally, adverse movements in currency exchange rates could result in increases in our cost of goods sold or reduction in growth in international orders, materially impacting our cash flows and earnings. 9 Table of Contents • Growth of and changes in our revenues and profits depend on the customer, product and geographic mix of our sales. Fluctuations in our sales mix could have an adverse impact on or increase the volatility of our revenues, gross margins and profits. Sales of our products to large enterprises tend to have lower prices and gross margins than sales to smaller firms. In addition, our gross margins vary depending on the product or service and the geographic region in which sales are made, and costs may fluctuate based on the distribution of our sales between various jurisdictions. Growth in our revenues, gross margins and earnings therefore depends on the customer, product and geographic mix of our sales. Our introduction of lower-priced products may also affect our ability to sell high-end products, even if those products have advanced features. In addition, our distributors, dealers and resellers can have a significant impact on the mix of our products and services. If we are unable to execute a sales strategy that results in a favorable sales mix, our revenues, gross margins and earnings could be adversely affected. Further, changes in the mix of our sales from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year may make our revenues, gross margins and earnings more volatile and difficult to predict. • We have entered into a senior secured credit facility agreement that includes covenants, financial tests and ratios, which, if not met, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain a senior secured credit facility that contains certain customary covenants to the Bank providing the credit facility, including financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests. The credit facility is secured by pledges of equity in and assets of certain of our domestic subsidiaries, which have also guaranteed our payment obligations under the credit facility. We must take into account the requirements of these covenants in the conduct of our business. Depending on the circumstances under which we could fail to satisfy one or more of these covenants, we may need to make choices that limit some of our business or financing activities in order to comply with them. These choices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, we were not in compliance with certain of our debt covenants effective as of December, 31, 2011, but the Bank agreed to amend the credit facility agreement to bring us back into compliance. However, if we fail to comply with the requirements of the credit facility in the future, we would be in default, and we may not be able to obtain the necessary amendments or waivers of an event of default. In that event, the Bank could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. The Bank could also move to enforce its rights under its security interests in our assets and those of our subsidiaries. If at that time we were not able to repay any amounts borrowed under the credit facility or to borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make the repayment, or if alternative financing is not available on favorable terms, our business and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. • Our business may be adversely affected if we do not continue to improve our business processes and systems and transform our supply chain or if those efforts have unintended results. In order to increase sales and profits, including those of acquired businesses, we must continue to expand our operations into new product and geographic markets and deepen our penetration of the markets we currently serve, and do so in ways that are cost effective and efficient from an operational and a tax perspective. To achieve our objectives, we are continuing to streamline our sales systems, supply chain and business processes and to implement a new global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. We have also established an international headquarters in Singapore. These restructurings are large, complex undertakings and may result in unanticipated costs, liabilities and operational disruptions, or tax or other financial consequences. They might not proceed as planned, could result in unintended consequences or might not accomplish the intended goals, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our sales, profits, results of operations and earnings. • Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain skilled managers and employees. Competition for skilled employees is high in our industry and the countries in which we operate, and we must remain competitive in terms of compensation and other employee benefits to retain key employees. In connection with businesses that we acquire, we may need to rely on these management and employees to continue to operate those businesses and to help us deepen our penetration of the market for their products and services. In addition, to pursue new products, services or strategic initiatives, we may need to attract individuals with particular knowledge, skills or qualifications. If we are unsuccessful in hiring and retaining skilled managers and employees, we may be unable to maintain and expand our business. 10 Table of Contents • Some of our competitors are substantially larger and more profitable than we are, which may give them a competitive advantage. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Both historically and as a result of recent consolidation in the AIDC industry, we have certain competitors that are larger and potentially stronger than we are, and consequently we expect that competition may continue to intensify. Some of our competitors have, and new competitors may have, substantially more capital, revenue, profit or other and financial resources than we have. Among other things, these advantages may allow them to: invest more in R&D, sales and marketing, and customer support; achieve greater economies of scale in manufacturing and distribution; weather market downturns longer or adapt more quickly to emerging technology developments, market trends or price declines; or precipitate market changes by introducing new or complementary technologies, reducing prices or otherwise changing their market offerings. Such competition may require us to reduce our prices, thereby lowering our margins, or to increase our costs, and this could materially and adversely affect our earnings. There is no assurance that our strategies to counteract our competitors’ advantages will succeed, and if they do not, our business or financial results could suffer as a result. • The AIDC industry, including the voice technology segment, is characterized by rapid technological change, and our success depends upon the frequent enhancement of existing products and timely introduction of new products that meet our customers’ needs. Customer requirements for AIDC products evolve and technological changes in our industry occur regularly. To keep up with new customer requirements and distinguish Intermec from our competitors, we must frequently introduce new products and enhancements of existing products. Enhancing existing products and developing new products is complex and uncertain. It often requires significant investments in R&D. We may not have adequate capital or resources to invest in R&D to keep pace with technological changes in our industry. Even if we make adequate investments in R&D, they may not result in products that are attractive or acceptable to our customers. New technologies, such as Vocollect’s voice technology, may also not achieve widespread acceptance or may be preempted by competing technologies. Furthermore, we may not be able to launch new or improved products before our competition launches comparable products. Any of these factors could cause our business or financial results to suffer. • Introduction of new products could render our existing products obsolete, which could have an adverse effect on our business or financial results. Introduction of new products or technologies by us or our competitors could render certain of our products obsolete. This could reduce sales volumes, or result in substantial excess or obsolete inventories, or both. If that were to occur, we might have to sell all or a portion of the excess or obsolete inventory at a substantial discount which may also be below the cost of making or acquiring that inventory and cause us to write off the difference. If we are unable to anticipate the obsolescence of our products or to mitigate the risk of product obsolescence, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. • Our reliance on third-party distributors could adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition to offering our products and services to certain customers and resellers directly, we rely to a significant and increasing degree on our channel partners to sell our products and services to end-users. In 2010 and 2011, one distributor, ScanSource, Inc., accounted for more than 10% of our sales of Intermec-branded products. It or other distributors may account for a substantial portion of our sales of our products or services in the future. Changes in markets, customers or products, or negative developments in general economic and financial conditions and the availability of credit, may adversely affect the ability of such distributors of our products and services to bring them to market at the right time and in the right locations. In addition, our competitors’ strategic relationships with, or acquisitions of, these distributors could disrupt our relationships with them. Any such disruption could impair or delay sales of our products and services to end users and increase our costs of distribution, which could adversely affect business and financial results. • Use of third-party contract manufacturers, suppliers and service providers could adversely affect our product quality, delivery schedules or customer satisfaction, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. In relying on third-party contractors to assemble most of our Intermec-branded products, we do not have direct physical control over the manufacturing process and operations. Third-party suppliers also provide the components that our contract manufacturers and Vocollect use in the 11 Table of Contents final assembly of our products. Some of these components may be available only from a single source. We also outsource a number of services to third-party service providers, including certain design services, transportation and logistics, management of spare parts, and warranty service. Accordingly, our products and services could be adversely affected by, among other things, inadequate quality control of these third-party suppliers and service providers, or by their inability to design products, parts and components to our specifications, to ship product, to manage our product inventory, to meet delivery deadlines or to otherwise satisfy our customers’ needs. Failure of these third-party suppliers and service providers in any of these respects could negatively affect our customer relationships, our sales and our earnings. Failures on the part of our third-party designers could impair our ability to enhance our existing products and to introduce new products. The disruption of our supply chain could cause us to incur greater expense to purchase parts or products in short supply, to purchase quantities of these items in excess of our estimated near term requirements, or to take other steps to ensure the availability of necessary quantities that could increase our costs. • If Vocollect’s manufacturing process or facility is disrupted, sales of Vocollect’s products could be disrupted, and we could incur unforeseen costs or loss of revenues. Final assembly of Vocollect’s products is performed at a single location in the U.S. If the operations of that facility are disrupted, we would be unable to fulfill customer orders for the period of the disruption. We would not be able to recognize revenue on orders that we could not ship, and we might need to modify our standard sales terms to secure the commitment of new customers during the period of the disruption and perhaps longer. Depending on the cause of the disruption, we could incur significant costs to remedy the disruption and resume product shipments. Such a disruption could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and earnings. • As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire or make investments in other businesses, patents, technologies, products or services, and our failure to do so successfully may not generate the intended benefits, adversely affecting our competitive position or financial results. We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions or investments to expand our suite of products and services. Our growth could be hampered if we were unable to identify suitable acquisitions and investments or agree on the terms of any such acquisition or investment. We may not be able to consummate any such transaction if we lack sufficient resources to finance the transaction on our own and cannot obtain financing at a reasonable cost. Furthermore, integration of new businesses or technologies into our business may have any of the following adverse effects: • We may have difficulty transitioning customers and other business relationships to Intermec. • We may lose some customer or vendor relationships due to our acquisition of competitors of those customers or vendors. • We may have problems unifying management following a transaction. • We may lose key employees from our existing or acquired businesses. • We may experience intensified competition from other companies seeking to expand sales and market share during the integration period. • Our management’s attention may be diverted to the assimilation of the technology and personnel of acquired businesses or new product or service lines. • We may experience difficulties in coordinating geographically disparate organizations and corporate cultures and integrating management personnel with different business backgrounds. If we are not able to complete such acquisitions and successfully integrate them, or to complete investments and successfully realize their intended benefits, our competitive position may suffer, which could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and earnings. • Business combinations and other acquisition transactions may have a direct adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, or on our stock price. In order to complete acquisitions or investments, we may have to use cash, issue new equity securities with dilutive effects on existing 12 Table of Contents stockholders, take on new debt, assume contingent liabilities or amortize assets or expenses in a manner that might have a material adverse effect on our balance sheet, results of operations or liquidity. We are required to record certain acquisition-related costs and other items as current period expenses, which would have the effect of reducing our reported earnings in the period in which an acquisition is consummated. We are also required to record post-closing goodwill or other long-lived asset impairment charges in the period in which they occur, which could result in a significant charge to our earnings in that period. These and other potential negative effects of an acquisition could prevent us from realizing the benefits of such transactions and have a material adverse impact on our stock price, revenues, revenue growth, balance sheet, results of operations and liquidity. • Our inability to successfully protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect the growth of our business and results of operations. To protect our IP portfolio, we may be required to initiate patent infringement lawsuits. IP infringement lawsuits are complex proceedings, and the results are very difficult to predict. There is no assurance that we will prevail in any or all of these cases or that we will achieve the desired outcome in terms of injunctive relief or damages or that the other parties will be able to pay the damages awarded. Adverse results in such lawsuits could give competitors the legal right to compete with us and with our licensees using technology that is similar to or the same as ours. Adverse outcomes in IP lawsuits could also reduce our royalty revenues. In some periods, IP litigation recoveries and expenses could result in large fluctuations of revenue or expenses from prior periods, increase the volatility of our financial results or have a material adverse impact on our operating profits, results of operations or net earnings. Since our business strategy includes global expansion, we are operating in developing countries where the institutional structures for creating and enforcing IP rights are very new or non-existent and where government agencies, courts and market participants have little experience with IP rights. There is no assurance that we will be able to protect our technology in such countries, because we may not be able to enforce IP rights in those jurisdictions and alternative methods of protecting our IP rights may not be effective. Our inability to prevent competitors in these developing markets from misappropriating our technology could materially and adversely affect our sales, revenues and results of operations. • Our inability to successfully defend ourselves from the intellectual property infringement claims of others could have an adverse effect on the growth of our business and results of operations. Our competitors, our potential competitors and other companies may have IP rights covering products and services similar to those we market and sell. These firms may try to use their IP rights to prevent us from selling some of our products, to collect royalties from us, or to deter us from enforcing our IP rights against them. Those efforts may include infringement lawsuits against us or our customers. These lawsuits are complex proceedings with uncertain outcomes. There is no assurance that we or our customers will prevail in any IP lawsuits brought against us. If the results of such litigation are adverse to us or our customers, we could be enjoined from selling and our customers could be enjoined from using our products or services and ordered to pay for past damages. We might also be required to pay future royalties or be forced to incur the cost of designing around a third party’s IP. In some periods, IP litigation expenses could result in large fluctuations from prior periods. Any of these events could increase the volatility of our financial results or have a material adverse effect on our sales, revenues, operating profits, results of operations or earnings per share. • Our failure to expand our IP portfolio could adversely affect the growth of our business and results of operations. Expansion of our IP portfolio is one of the available methods of developing new or improved products to grow our revenues and our profits. This involves a complex and costly set of activities with uncertain outcomes. Our ability to obtain patents and other IP can be adversely affected by insufficient inventiveness of our employees, by changes in IP laws, treaties, and regulations, and by judicial and administrative interpretations of those laws, treaties and regulations. Our ability to expand our IP portfolio could also be adversely affected by the lack of valuable IP for sale or license at affordable prices. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain valuable IP in the jurisdictions where we and our competitors operate or that we will be able to use or license that IP or that we will be able to generate meaningful royalty revenue or profits from our IP. 13 Table of Contents • Estimating our income tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty. The computation of income taxes is complex, because it is based on the laws of numerous taxing jurisdictions and requires significant judgment on the application of complicated rules governing accounting for tax provisions under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The income tax expense or benefit for interim quarters is based on a forecast of our global tax rate for the year, which includes forward looking financial projections. Such financial projections are based on numerous assumptions, including the expectations of profit and loss by jurisdiction. It is difficult to accurately forecast various items that make up the projections. Examples of items that could cause variability in our income tax rate include our mix of income by jurisdiction, tax deductions for stock option expense, application of transfer pricing rules, tax audits, and changes to our valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. Future events, such as changes in our business and the tax law in the jurisdictions where we do business, could also affect our rate. For these reasons, our global tax rate for the year may be materially different than our estimates for interim periods. Such differences may result in material differences between our actual reported net earnings and earnings per share, and our or analysts’ estimates. • If we do not generate sufficient future taxable income, we may be required to recognize additional deferred tax asset valuation allowances. The value of our deferred tax assets depends, in part, on our ability to use them to offset taxable income in future years. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the U.S. and certain other jurisdictions, or if there are significant changes in tax laws or the tax rates or the period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Such an increase would result in an increase in our effective tax rate and have a negative impact on our operating results. If our future taxable income is increased, the valuation allowances for deferred tax assets may be reduced. These changes may also contribute to the volatility of our financial results. • Our ability to use tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our future income tax liability could be substantially limited if we experience an “ownership change” within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code Section 382. In that event, we may be required to recognize a noncash charge to our earnings, which could be material. We have substantial tax credit and net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards (collectively, “Tax Attributes”) for United States federal income tax purposes that are available to reduce our future income tax liability. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code, following an “ownership change,” certain limitations apply to the use by a “loss corporation” of its Tax Attributes arising before the “ownership change.” In general, an “ownership change” would occur if there is a cumulative change in the ownership of our common stock of more than 50% by one or more “5% shareholders” during a three-year period. In the event of an “ownership change,” the Tax Attributes that may be used to offset our future taxable income in each year after the “ownership change” will be subject to an annual limitation. In general, the annual limitation is equal to the product of the fair market value of our stock on the date of the “ownership change” and the “long term tax exempt rate” (which is published monthly by the IRS), subject to specified adjustments (the “Section 382 Limitation”). The computation of percentage increases in ownership by “5% shareholders” is subject to numerous factual and legal uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or a court will agree with our calculation. In general, we have no control over the fact or timing of acquisitions or transfers of our common stock. Furthermore, in the event an “ownership change” occurs at a time when our stock price has declined, a lower Section 382 Limitation would result, which could result in a significant portion of our Tax Attributes expiring before we could fully use them. We cannot predict whether there will be changes in the ownership of our common stock that would result in the imposition of a Section 382 Limitation. However, if such an “ownership change” were to occur, our ability to use our Tax Attributes could be substantially limited. In such a case we could be required to record a valuation allowance and take a noncash charge against our earnings to reduce our net deferred tax assets in the quarter in which the “ownership change” occurs, which could adversely affect our financial results for that quarter and for the year in question. Furthermore, our inability to fully use our Tax Attributes could result in higher tax payments, thereby reducing our cash flow. • If we do not comply with agreements that we have made in certain jurisdictions, we may lose favorable tax treatment that results from those agreements. In some jurisdictions in which we operate, favorable tax rates 14 Table of Contents and other tax benefits are subject to our compliance with agreements that we have with relevant governmental agencies. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of those agreements, our tax rate in those jurisdictions might increase or we might lose certain tax benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate or our financial results. • We may have additional tax liabilities. In determining the adequacy of income taxes, we assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from IRS and other tax authorities’ examinations. The IRS and tax authorities in countries where we do business regularly examine our tax returns. The ultimate outcome of these examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. For example, our tax expense may be impacted if our intercompany transactions, which are required to be computed on an arm’s-length basis, are challenged and successfully disputed by the tax authorities. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes as a result of examinations, we may be required to record charges to operations that could have a material impact on the results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. • We face risks as a global company that could adversely affect our revenues, gross profit margins and results of operations. Due to the global nature of our business, we face risks that companies operating in a single country or region do not have. U.S. and foreign government restrictions on the export or import of technology could prevent us from selling some or all of our products in one or more countries. Our sales could also be materially and adversely affected by burdensome laws, regulations, security requirements, tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers or capital flow restrictions imposed by the U.S. or foreign governments. In addition, political and economic instability in a particular country or region could reduce demand for our products or impair or eliminate our ability to sell or deliver those products to customers in those countries or put our assets at risk. Any of the foregoing factors could adversely affect our ability to continue or expand sales of our products in any market, and disruptions of our sales could materially and adversely impact our revenues, revenue growth, gross profit margins and results of operations. In addition, aspects of our business are subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws regarding data privacy. The European Union has also adopted a data privacy directive that requires member states to impose restrictions on the collection and use of personal data. The issue of data privacy is an increasingly important area of public policy in various jurisdictions. The evolving regulatory environment in which we operate could adversely impact aspects of our business or the businesses of third parties on whom we depend. Compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue or profits. Noncompliance could result in disruptions to our business or operations, proceedings against the Company by government entities, customers or others, require changes to our business practices and lead to legal liability. Any of the foregoing factors could adversely affect our ability to sell or deliver products, maintain our work force in affected areas, or to continue or expand our operations in particular markets, which could materially and adversely impact our revenues, revenue growth, gross profit margins and results of operation. A significant percentage of our products and their components are designed, manufactured, produced, delivered, serviced or supported in countries outside of the U.S. From time to time, we contract with companies outside of the U.S. to perform one or more of these activities, or portions of these activities. For operational, legal or other reasons, we may have to change the mix of domestic and international operations or move outsourced activities from one overseas vendor to another. In addition, U.S. or foreign government actions or economic or political instability and potentially weaker foreign IP protections may disrupt or require changes in our international operations or international outsourcing arrangements. The process of implementing such changes and dealing with such disruptions is complex and can be expensive. There is no assurance that we will be able to accomplish these tasks in an efficient or cost-effective manner, if at all. If we encounter difficulties in making such transitions, our revenues, gross profit margins and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. • Violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to civil or criminal liability. As a global company, we are also subject to risks that our employees, contractors, representatives or agents could conduct our operations outside the U.S. in ways that violate the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other similar anti-bribery laws. Although we have policies and procedures to comply with those laws, our 15 Table of Contents employees, contractors, representatives and agents may take actions that violate our policies. Moreover, third-party sales representatives or other agents that help sell our products or provide other services may violate our anti-bribery policies and procedures, because it may be more difficult for us to oversee their conduct. Any such violations could result in fines and other penalties and could otherwise have a negative impact on our business. • Global regulation and regulatory compliance, including environmental, technological and standards setting regulations, may limit our sales or increase our costs, which could adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. We are subject to domestic and international technical and environmental standards and regulations that govern or influence the design, components or operation of our products. Such standards and regulations may also require us to pay for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Our ability to sell AIDC products in a given country and the gross margins on products sold in a given country could be affected by such regulations. We are also subject to self-imposed standards setting activities sponsored by organizations such as ISO, AIM, IEEE and EPC global that provide our customers with the ability to seamlessly use our products with products from other AIDC vendors, which our customers demand. Changes in standards and regulations may be introduced at any time and with little or no time to bring products into compliance with the revised technical standard or regulation. Standards and regulations may: • prevent us from selling one or more of our products in a particular country or region; • increase our cost of supplying our products by requiring us to redesign existing products or to use more expensive designs or components; • require us to obtain services or create infrastructure in a particular country to address collection, recycling and similar obligations; or • require us to license our patents on a royalty free basis and prevent us from seeking damages and injunctive relief for patent infringements. In these cases, we may experience unexpected disruptions in our ability to supply customers with our products or may have to incur unexpected costs to bring our products into compliance. Due to these uncertainties and compliance burdens, our customers may postpone or cancel purchases of our products. As a result, global regulation and compliance could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, gross profit margins and results of operations and increase the volatility of our financial results. • We could be negatively affected by information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. We face the risk of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, or other significant disruption of our information technology (“IT”) networks and related systems. We face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the IT networks, products and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to our customers’ data or our data. IT system failures could also result in the unintentional disclosure of Intermec’s confidential information or that of our customers and employees. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 16 Table of Contents 