ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a highly competitive environment in which there are numerous factors which can influence our business, financial position or results of operations and which can also cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Many of these factors are beyond our control and therefore, are difficult to predict. The following section sets forth what we believe to be the principal risks that could affect us, our business or our industry, and which could result in a material adverse impact on our financial results or cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS The global economic crisis could further impair the demand for our products and affecting the overall availability and cost of external financing for our operations. The continuation or intensification of the global economic crisis and turmoil in the global financial markets may adversely impact our business, the businesses of our customers from whom we generate revenues and our potential sources of capital financing. The global economic crisis harmed most industries and has been particularly detrimental to the real estate, construction, automobile and consumer product industry. Since our steel products serve as key components in construction and building materials, automobiles and household products, our sales and business operations are dependent on the financial health of the these industries and could suffer if our customers experience, or continue to experience, a downturn in their business. In addition, the lack of availability of credit could lead to a further weakening of the Chinese and global economies and make capital financing of our operations more expensive for us or impossible altogether. Presently, it is unclear whether and to what extent the economic stimulus measures and other actions taken or contemplated by the Chinese government and other governments throughout the world will mitigate the effects of the crisis on the industries that affect our business. These conditions have not presently impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations. However, the impact of the current crisis on our ability to obtain capital financing in the future, and the cost and terms of same, is unclear. Furthermore, deteriorating economic conditions including business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect our customers could have further negative consequences for the real estate, construction, automobile and consumer product industry and result in lower sales, price reductions in our products and declining profit margins. The economic situation also could harm our current or future lenders or customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. No assurances can be given that the effects of the current crisis will not damage on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Steel consumption is cyclical and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products has resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows general economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in various smaller geographic areas. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess world supply. This has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness, which have not been offset by commensurate price increases during periods of economic strength. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which may further reduce demand for steel. Additional overcapacity or the use of alternative products could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. The risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our accounts receivable may be increased by our practice of offering extended customer credit and payment terms to our customers, together with the current negative global economic conditions. Any such unrecoverable losses could adversely affect our financial results. We operate our business in China. Credit periods vary substantially in China across industries, segments, types and size of companies. We operate in a niche of the China steel industry, specifically in the manufacture and sale of high precision cold-rolled steel products and in the provision of heat treatment and cutting of medium and high carbon hot-rolled steel strips. Our customers are also niche operators, including manufacturers of automobile parts and components, steel roofing, plane friction discs, appliances, food packaging materials, saw blades, textile needles and microelectronics. Because of the nature of our business, our business cycle and that of our customers is relatively long. As a result, the credit and payment terms that we extend to our customers in the normal course of business are also relatively long. We offer credit to our customers for periods of 60 days, 90 days, 120 days and 180 days, with the longer credit terms generally offered to longstanding recurring customers with good payment histories and sizable operations. Our management determines the collectability of outstanding accounts by maintaining quarterly communication with such customers and obtaining confirmation of their intent and ability to fulfill their obligations to the Company. In making this determination, our management also considers past collection experience, our relationship with customers and the impact of current economic conditions on our industry and market and the financial condition of the customer, to the extend discoverable. Until June 30, 2009, we did not have a policy of writing off or reserving a specific dollar amount or percentage of accounts receivable based on aging of such accounts. The following table reflects the aging of our accounts receivable as of June 30, 2009 and 2008, after taking into consideration credit periods offered to our customers. As of June 30, 2009, apart from one major customer who accounted for 38% of accounts receivable which were past due over 180 days, the remaining 62% of our accounts receivable over 180 days is spread among approximately 27 different customers. June 30, 2009 US$ Total Current 1 to 30 days 31 to 90 days 91 to 180 days 181 to 360 days over 1 year TOTAL 25,970,961 14,497,258 405,769 1,639,027 7,061,774 2,168,481 198,652 % 100 56 2 6 27 8 1 15 June 30, 2008 US$ Total Current 1 to 30 days 31 to 90 days 91 to 180 days 181 to 360 days over 1 year TOTAL 34,816,553 32,711,335 313,936 1,414,991 157,578 111,863 106,850 % 100 94 1 4 <1 <1 <1 We have not previously determined it appropriate or necessary to write-off or specifically reserve for any aged accounts receivable based on a determination of uncollectability, other than a write-off of accounts receivable of $3,835,124 during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. This charge reflects a write-off of accounts receivable due to a dispute between the Company and one of our customers regarding a special stainless steel product processed by the Company and delivered to the customer during the third and fourth quarters of the year ended June 30, 2008. Revenues for these products were initially recognized as services had been rendered and the goods had been delivered, and collectability was reasonably assured as the goods were delivered in accordance to the terms of the contract and management had no reason to believe that the customer would object to the goods and services provided. However, in the months following such delivery, a dispute arose during the use of such products by the customer, which was followed by discussions between us and the customer regarding the technical aspects of the products and the possibility of reprocessing the products. After a few rounds of negotiation with the customer regarding the products and payment, our management determined as of June 30, 2009, that this account receivable is uncollectible. The Company does not have any other accounts receivable related to this product. As of June 30, 2009, all our customers confirmed that they were committed to fulfilling their obligations to the Company and we were aware of no other basis for reclassifying any such accounts as uncollectable. As a result, we determined that an allowance for doubtful accounts of $830,127 as of June 30, 2009, was appropriate, as compared to $1,033,479 at June 30, 2008. To date, we have collected approximately $0.9 million, or 40% of our accounts that were over 180 days old at June 30, 2009. We believe there was no material deterioration of the accounts receivable at June 30, 2009. We note, however, that we experienced delays in customer payment of accounts receivable during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. Approximately 9% of our accounts receivable as of June 30, 2009 was over 180 days past due, compared to 1% of our accounts receivable being over 180 days past due as of June 30, 2008. Our customers, for example the high-carbon cold-rolled steel customers in the auto industry, had high inventory balances on hand at the time due to build up during the sales boom immediately before the global crisis, and had indicated delay in payments due to slower turnaround. These delays have caused a much smaller decrease in the accounts receivable balance as compared to the decrease of sales revenue in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. However, the Chinese government has been implementing measures and macro-economic policies aimed to stimulate the Chinese economy since the start of 2009, and as one of the pillar industries under support, our customers in the auto industry have indicated to us that they were seeing increased orders during the second and third quarters of 2009 as a result of the stimulus packages and have indicated to us that they were committed to settling their respective outstanding accounts receivable. There are similar cases with our other customers who have also expressed confirmation for settlement as they have been seeing increased orders and collection themselves as the stimulus package is implemented. We also note the continuation or intensification of the current worldwide economic crisis may have negative consequences on the business operations of our customers despite the efforts of the Chinese government and may adversely impact their ability to meet these financial obligations to us, resulting in unrecoverable losses on such accounts receivable. Although we believe that our current reserves for doubtful accounts are adequate in light of current market conditions, and we are not aware of any specific increases in doubtful accounts, we have nevertheless elected to prepare for the potential worsening of the global economic downturn, and the slowdown in the steel industry in China in particular, by increasing such reserves for 2009. To reserve for potentially uncollectible accounts receivable, management has made a 50% provision for all accounts receivable that are over 180 days past due and full provision for all accounts receivable over 1 year past due for the year ended June 30, 2009. The Company had $830,127 and $1,033,479 of allowances for doubtful accounts, respectively; and provision for bad debts of $3,831,478 and $686,955, respectively, for the year ended June 30, 2009 and 2008. 16 From time to time we will review credit periods offered, along with our collection experience and the other factors discussed above, to evaluate the adequacy of our allowance for doubtful accounts, and to make changes to the allowance, if necessary, including reducing such allowances if uncollectable accounts do not actually increase and the other factors we consider in determining the collectability of accounts do not deteriorate. However, if our actual collection experience with our customers or other conditions change, or the other factors that we consider indicate that it is appropriate, a further provision for doubtful accounts may be required, which could adversely affect our financial results. We provide advances to suppliers when placing purchase orders in the ordinary course of our business. If we must write-off a material amount of these advances for any reason, or if we are unable to obtain delivery of raw material from suppliers to whom we have paid advances for any reason, our financial results will be negatively impacted. In order to insure a steady supply of raw materials, the Company is required from time to time to make cash advances to its suppliers when placing purchase orders, for a guaranteed minimum delivery quantity at future times when raw materials are required. The advance is seen as a deposit to suppliers and guarantees our access to raw materials during periods of shortages and market volatility, and is therefore considered an important component of our operations. Contracted raw materials are priced at prevailing market rates agreed by us with the suppliers prior to each delivery date and the balance of our advances decrease when we take down contracted material at a future date. Balances decrease at a slower rate during periods when raw material prices are decreasing or when we take fewer deliveries from our suppliers. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, lower steel prices coupled with reduced orders and therefore take down of contracted raw materials from the advances paid led to a slower decrease of such balance. We had therefore obtained a cash refund from one of our major suppliers in the amount of $5.0 million in view of the above. Advances to suppliers are shown net of an allowance which represents potentially unrecoverable cash advances at each balance sheet date. Our allowances for advances to suppliers are subjective critical estimates that have a direct impact on reported net earnings, and are reviewed quarterly at a minimum to ensure the appropriateness of the allowance in light of the circumstances present at the time of the review. Such allowances are based on an analysis of past raw materials receipt experience and the credibility of each supplier according to its size and background. For example, we do not generally provide allowances against advances paid to state owned companies as we believe that there is minimal risk of default. It is reasonably possible that the Company’s estimate of the allowance will change, such as in the case when the Company becomes aware of a supplier’s inability to deliver the contracted raw materials or meet its financial obligations. At June 30, 2009 and 2008, the Company had allowances of advances to suppliers of $1,631,557 and $2,522,837, respectively. Approximately 48% of our advance to suppliers was greater than 180 days as of June 30, 2009, the majority, or 74% of which, is attributable to our advances to a single supplier, a subsidiary of a state-owned company in China. We believe that advances paid to state-owned companies are ultimately collectible because they are backed by the full faith and credit of the PRC government. As such, we do not provide allowances against such advances. During the fiscal year June 30, 2009, we have also received a $5.0 million cash refund of supplier advances of over 180 days from one of our major suppliers, representing 23% of advances to suppliers as of June 30, 2009. Allowances for advances to suppliers are written off when all efforts to collect the materials or recover the cash advances have been unsuccessful, or when it has become known to the management that there is no intention for the suppliers to deliver the contracted raw materials or refund the cash advances. To date we have not written off any advances to suppliers. If any material advances to suppliers must be written-off, or if we can not secure delivery of raw materials that have pre-paid with such advances, then our financial results will be negatively impacted. Rapidly growing demand and supply in China and other developing economies may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices, which could adversely impact our results. Over the last several years steel consumption in China and other developing economies such as India has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by developing plans to rapidly increase steel production capability in these countries and entered into long-term contracts with iron ore suppliers in Australia and Brazil. Steel production, especially in China, has been expanding rapidly and could be in excess of Chinese demand depending on continuing growth rates. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer, any significant excess in Chinese capacity could have a major impact on domestic and international steel trade and prices. 17 Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Our operating subsidiaries, Chengtong and Shanghai Blessford, are subject to numerous Chinese provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Our consolidated business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if our operating subsidiaries were required to increase expenditures to comply with any new environmental regulations affecting its operations. We may require additional capital in the future and we cannot assure that capital will be available on reasonable terms, if at all, or on terms that would not cause substantial dilution to stockholdings. The development of high quality specialty precision steel requires substantial funds. Sourcing external capital funds for product development and requisite capital expenditures are key factors that have and may in the future constrain our growth, production capability and profitability. To achieve the next phase of our corporate growth, increased production capacity, successful product development and additional external capital will be necessary. There can be no assurance that such capital will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any sale of a substantial number of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock will cause dilution to the holders of our common stock and could also cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We face significant competition from competitors who have greater resources than we do, and we may not have the resources necessary to successfully compete with them. We are one of a few manufacturers of specialty precision steel products in China. Differences in the type and nature of the specialty precision steel products in China’s steel industry are relatively small, and, coupled with intense competition from international and local suppliers, to a limited extent, consumers’ demand can be price sensitive. Competitors may increase their market share through pricing strategies that adversely impact our business. Our business is in an industry that is becoming increasingly competitive and capital intensive, and competition comes from manufacturers located in China as well as from international competition. Our competitors may have financial resources, staff and facilities substantially greater than ours and we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared with larger companies. We produce a limited number of products and may not be able to respond quickly to significant changes in the market or new market entrants. Cold-rolled specialty precision steel is a relatively new industry in China; Chinese manufacturers of durable goods previously relied solely on imports from Japan, Korea, the European Union and the United States. We believe the average quality and standards of products of China’s high precision steel industry lags behind the international norm. During the last four years, we have developed a nationally recognizable brand, however, we are not yet an internationally recognizable brand for our specialty steel products. Although we offer high precision cold rolled steel products in over 100 specifications, there are many other specialty precision steel products of similar nature in the market, even though none currently compete directly with our products. If there are significant changes in market demands and/or competitive forces, we may not be able to change our product mix or adapt our production equipment quickly enough to meet customers’ needs. Under such circumstances, our narrow band of precision steel products and/or new market entrants may negatively impact our financial performance. 18 Increased imports of steel products into China could negatively affect domestic steel prices and demand levels and reduce profitability of domestic producers. Based on our understanding, China’s total production capacity of precision cold-rolled steel coils was over two million tons as of June 30, 2009. However, domestic production continues to be insufficient to meet demand. As a result, China continues to import a significant portion of its steel products. Foreign competitors may have lower labor costs, and are often owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Import levels may also be impacted by decisions of government agencies, under trade laws. Increases in future levels of imported steel could negatively impact future market prices and demand levels for our precision steel products. We are dependent on our Chinese manufacturing operations to generate the majority of our income and profits, and the deterioration of any current favorable local conditions may make it difficult or prohibitive to continue to operate or expand in China. Our current manufacturing operations are located in China, our administrative offices are in Hong Kong and we have additional establishments in the British Virgin Islands. The geographical distances between these facilities create a number of logistical and communications challenges, including time differences and differences in the cultures in each location, which makes communication and effective cooperation more difficult. In addition, because of the location of the manufacturing facilities in China, our operations in China could be affected by, among other things: · economic and political instability in China, including problems related to labor unrest; · lack of developed infrastructure; · variances in payment cycles; · currency fluctuations; · overlapping taxes and multiple taxation issues; · employment and severance taxes; · compliance with local laws and regulatory requirements; · greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; and · the burdens of cost and compliance with a variety of foreign laws. Moreover, inadequate development or maintenance of infrastructure in China, including adequate power and water supplies, transportation, raw materials availability or the deterioration in the general political, economic or social environment could make it difficult, more expensive and possibly prohibitive to continue to operate or expand our facilities in China. Our operations are international and we are subject to significant worldwide political, economic, legal and other uncertainties that may make it difficult or costly to collect amounts owed to us or to conduct operations should materials needed from certain places be unavailable for an indefinite or extended period of time. We have subsidiaries in the British Virgin Islands and China. We manufacture all of our products in China and substantially all of the net book value of our total fixed assets is located there. However, we sell our products to customers outside of China as well as domestically. As a result, we have receivables from and goods in transit to locations outside of China. Protectionist trade legislation in the United States or other countries, such as a change in export or import legislation, tariff or duty structures, or other trade policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell products in these markets, or even to purchase raw materials or equipment from foreign suppliers. Moreover, we are subject to a variety of United States laws and regulations, changes to which may affect our ability to transact business with certain customers or in certain product categories. 19 In China, our operating subsidiaries Chengtong and Shanghai Blessford are subject to numerous national, provincial and local governmental regulations, all of which can limit our ability to react to market pressures in a timely or effective way, thus causing us to lose business or miss opportunities to expand our business. These include, among others, regulations governing: · environmental and waste management; · our relationship with our employees, including: wage and hour requirements, working and safety conditions, citizenship requirements, work permits and travel restrictions; · property ownership and use in connection with our leased facilities in China; and · import restrictions, currency restrictions and restrictions on the volume of domestic sales. The end-use markets for certain of our products are highly competitive and customers are willing to accept substitutes for our products which could reduce our results of operations. Buyers of certain cold-rolled steel products are in highly competitive markets. Cold-rolled precision steel competes with other materials, such as aluminum, plastics, composite materials and glass, among others, for industrial and commercial applications. Customers have demonstrated a willingness to substitute other materials for cold-rolled steel. The willingness of our customers to accept substitutes for cold-rolled steel products could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may not be able to pass on to customers the increases in the costs of our raw materials, particularly crude steel. We require substantial amounts of raw materials in our business, consisting principally of steel slabs and strip steel. Any substantial increases in the cost of crude steel could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The availability and price of crude steel depends on a number of factors outside our control, including general economic conditions, domestic and international supply and tariffs. Increased domestic and worldwide demand for crude steel has had and will continue to have the effect of increasing the prices that we pay for these raw materials, thereby increasing our cost of goods sold. Generally, there is a potential time lag between changes in prices under our purchase contracts and the point when we can implement a corresponding change under our sales contracts with our customers. As a result, we can be exposed to fluctuations in the price of raw materials, since, during the time lag period, we may have to temporarily bear the additional cost of the change under our purchase contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If raw material prices were to increase significantly without a commensurate increase in the market value of our products, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Although we are dependent on a steady flow of raw materials for our operations, we do not have in place long-term supply agreements for all of our material requirements. Although a substantial portion of our raw material requirements is met by BaoSteel Steel Products Trading Co., Ltd. for the year ended June 30, 2009, we are not dependent on any one single supplier for supply of hot-rolled coils as these coils are generally available in the market. However, we do not currently have long-term supply contracts with any particular supplier, including BaoSteel Steel Products Trading Co., Ltd., to assure a continued supply of the raw materials we need in our operations. While we maintain good relationships with these suppliers, the supply of raw materials may nevertheless be interrupted on account of events outside our control, which will negatively impact our operations. 20 We have substantial indebtedness with floating interest rates and the cost of our borrowings may increase. We are subject to interest rate risk on our non-derivative financial instruments. We do not hedge our interest rate risk. At June 30, 2009, our total bank debt outstanding was $22,489,031, all of which was interest-bearing. Substantially all of the bank debt was floating-rate debt with interest rates which vary with changes in the standard rate set by the People’s Bank of China for RMB loans and SIBOR for USD loan. A change in the interest rate or yield of fixed rate debt will only impact the fair value of such debt, while a change in the interest rate of floating rate, or variable rate, debt will impact interest expense as well as the amount of cash required to service such debt. To the extent interest rates increase, we will be liable for higher interest payments to its lenders. We anticipate that annual interest on loans for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010, will be approximately $1.2 million. The impact of a 1% increase in interest rates will increase interest expense by approximately $225,000. As our short-term loans mature in July 2010, we will be required to either repay or refinance these loans. An increase in short-term interest rates at the time that we seek to refinance short-term borrowings may increase the cost of borrowings, which may adversely affect our earnings and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. At June 30, 2009, the aggregate fair value of our financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk was approximately $22.5 million. The potential change in fair value for these financial instruments from an adverse 10% change in quoted interest rates across all maturities, often referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve, would be approximately $2.5 million at June 30, 2009. The loss of any key executive or our failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our future performance, strategic plans and other objectives. The loss or failure to attract and retain key personnel could significantly impede our future performance, including product development, strategic plans, marketing and other objectives. Our success depends to a substantial extent not only on the ability and experience of our senior management, but particularly upon our Chairman, Wo Hing Li; the General Manager of Chengtong, Hai Sheng Chen; and Chief Financial Officer, Leada Tak Tai Li. We do not currently have in place key man life insurance on Wo Hing Li, Hai Sheng Chen or Leada Tak Tai Li. To the extent that the services of these officers and directors would be unavailable to us, we would be required to recruit other persons to perform the duties performed by Wo Hing Li, Hai Sheng Chen and Leada Tak Tai Li. We may be unable to employ other qualified persons with the appropriate background and expertise to replace these officers and directors on terms suitable to us. We may not be able to retain, recruit and train adequate management and production personnel. We rely heavily on those personnel to help develop and execute our business plans and strategies, and if we lose such personnel, it would reduce our ability to operate effectively. Our continued operations are dependent upon our ability to identify and recruit adequate management and production personnel in China. We require trained graduates of varying levels and experience and a flexible work force of semi-skilled operators. Many of our current employees come from the more remote regions of China as they are attracted by the wage differential and prospects afforded by Shanghai and our operations. With the economic growth currently being experienced in China, competition for qualified personnel is substantial, and there can be no guarantee that a favorable employment climate will continue and that wage rates we must offer to attract qualified personnel will enable us to remain competitive internationally. The inability to attract such personnel or the increased cost of doing so could reduce our competitive advantage relative to other precision steel producers, reducing or eliminating our growth in revenues and profits. 21 We may not be able to protect adequately our intellectual property from infringement or unauthorized use by third parties. Except for a patent on the Environment-Conscious Mill Bearing with Inner Circular Lubrication, we have no patents or licenses that protect our intellectual property. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our processes and know-how or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our processes and know-how is difficult. Our experienced key engineers and management staff are extensively involved in all facets of research, design, craftwork, styling and development of the specialty precision products. Potential risks on the divulgence of skills and the development of new products increase should these employees resign, as we rely heavily on them. We have elected to protect internally developed know-how and production processes (such as system pressure, cleanliness of the lubrication, temperature control, appropriate allocation of oil supply and retrieving, which are vital in providing a radical solution to the difficulties associated with lubricating rolling mills’ backing bearing) by requiring all key personnel (production engineers and management staff) to sign non-disclosure and confidentiality contracts. However, this means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as extensively as do U.S. laws. Our failure to protect adequately our proprietary rights may allow third parties to duplicate our products, production processes or develop functionally equivalent or superior technology. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or design around our proprietary intellectual property. We are subject to risks associated with changing technology and manufacturing techniques, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage. The successful implementation of our business strategy requires us to continuously evolve our existing products and services and introduce new products and services to meet customers’ needs. Our designs and products are characterized by stringent performance and specification requirements that mandate a high degree of manufacturing and engineering expertise. We believe that our customers rigorously evaluate our services and products on the basis of a number of factors, including, but not limited to: · quality; · price competitiveness; · technical expertise and development capability; · innovation; · reliability and timeliness of delivery; · product design capability; · operational flexibility; · customer service; and · overall management. Our success depends on our ability to continue to meet our customers’ changing requirements and specifications with respect to these and other criteria. There can be no assurance that we will be able to address technological advances or introduce new designs or products that may be necessary to remain competitive within the precision steel industry. 22 We depend upon our largest customers for a significant portion of our sales revenue, and we cannot be certain that sales to these customers will continue. If sales to these customers do not continue, then our sales may decline and our business may be negatively impacted. We currently supply high precision steel products to five major customers in the Chinese domestic market. For the years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, sales revenues generated from the top five major customers amounted to 50% and 62% of total sales revenues, respectively; sales to the largest single customer for the same years amounted to 19% and 21% of total sales revenues, respectively. We do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers and therefore cannot be certain that sales to these customers will continue. The loss of any of our largest customers would likely have a material negative impact on our sales revenues and business. Defects in our products could impair our ability to sell products or could result in litigation and other significant costs. Detection of any significant defects in our precision steel products may result in, among other things, delay in time-to-market, loss of market acceptance and sales of its products, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, litigation or fines, or increased costs to correct such defects. Defects could harm our reputation, which could result in significant costs and could impair our ability to sell our products. The costs we may incur in correcting any product defects may be substantial and could decrease our profit margins. Failure to optimize our manufacturing potential and cost structure could materially increase our overhead, causing a decline in our margins and profitability. We strive to utilize the manufacturing capacity of our facilities fully but may not do so on a consistent basis. Our factory utilization is dependent on our success in, among other things: · accurately forecasting demand; · predicting volatility; · timing volume sales to our customers; · balancing our productive resources with product mix; and · planning manufacturing services for new or other products that we intend to produce. Demand for contract manufacturing of these products may not be as high as we expect, and we may fail to realize the expected benefit from our investment in our manufacturing facilities. Our profitability and operating results are also dependent upon a variety of other factors, including, but not limited to: · utilization rates of manufacturing lines; · downtime due to product changeover; · impurities in raw materials causing shutdowns; and · maintenance of contaminant-free operations. Failure to optimize our manufacturing potential and cost structure could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. 23 Moreover, our cost structure is subject to fluctuations from inflationary pressures in China and other geographic regions where we conduct business. China is currently experiencing dramatic growth in its economy. This growth may lead to continued pressure on wages and salaries that may exceed our budget and adversely affect our operating results. Our production facilities are subject to risks of power shortages which may adversely affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs and reduce our revenues. Many cities and provinces in China have suffered serious power shortages since the second quarter of 2004. Many of the regional grids do not have sufficient power generating capacity to fully satisfy the increased demand for electricity driven by continual economic growth and persistent hot weather. Local governments have occasionally required local factories to temporarily shut down their operations or reduce their daily operational hours in order to reduce local power consumption levels. To date, our operations have not been affected by those administrative measures. However, there is a risk that our operations may be affected by those administrative measures in the future, thereby causing material production disruption and delay in delivery schedule. In such event, our business, results of operation and financial conditions could be materially adversely affected. We do not have any back-up power generation system. Although we have not experienced any power outages in the past, we may be adversely affected by power outages in the future. Unexpected equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. Interruptions in our production capabilities will adversely affect our production costs, products available for sales and earnings for the affected period. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as our various cold-rolling mills, as well as electrical equipment, such as transformers, and this equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures. We have experienced and may in the future experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures. Our insurance may not be adequate if our production facilities were destroyed or significantly damaged as a result of fire or some other natural disaster. All of our products are currently manufactured at our existing facilities located in the Jiading District in Shanghai, China. Fire fighting and disaster relief or assistance in China may not be as developed as in Western countries. While we maintain property damage insurance aggregating approximately $53.7 million covering our inventories, equipment, plant and buildings and another $35.1 million insurance against equipment damage, we do not maintain business interruption insurance. Material damage to, or the loss of, our production facilities due to fire, severe weather, flood or other act of God or cause, even if insured, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. Our holding company structure may limit the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions as discussed below. If future dividends are paid in RMB, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of RMB into U.S. dollars may reduce the amount received by U.S. stockholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. 24 Chinese regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after tax profits according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. Currently, our subsidiaries in China are the only sources of revenues or investment holdings for the payment of dividends. If they do not accumulate sufficient profits under Chinese accounting standards and regulations to first fund certain reserve funds as required by Chinese accounting standards, we will be unable to pay any dividends. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC, and our executive officers and employees have not been subject to the FCPA prior to our reverse merger in December 2006. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must also attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls. We can provide no assurance that we will comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby. There can be no positive assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We may incur significant costs to ensure compliance with U.S. corporate governance and accounting requirements. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules implemented by the SEC and requirements in connection with the listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. 25 Our officers and directors have limited experience with the regulatory requirements for U.S. public companies, which could impair our ability to satisfy public company filing requirements and could increase our securities compliance costs. All of our officers and most of our directors do not have any prior experience as officers and directors of a U.S. publicly traded company, or in complying with the regulatory requirements applicable to a U.S. public company. As a result, we could have difficulty satisfying the regulatory requirements applicable to U.S. public companies, which could adversely affect the market for our common stock. At present, we rely upon outside experts to advise us on matters relating to financial accounting and public company reporting. While we believe that it will be possible to satisfy our public company reporting requirements through the use of third party experts, our general and administrative costs will remain higher until we have developed or acquired internal expertise in these matters RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate most of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · a higher level of government involvement; · a early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · a rapid growth rate; · a higher level of control over foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. As the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our services and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in the PRC. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, all of our executive officers and all of our directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to affect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese operations and subsidiaries. 26 If we are found to have failed to comply with applicable laws, we may incur additional expenditures or be subject to significant fines and penalties. Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to us. However, many PRC laws and regulations are uncertain in their scope, and the implementation of such laws and regulations in different localities could have significant differences. In certain instances, local implementation rules and/or the actual implementation are not necessarily consistent with the regulations at the national level. Although we strive to comply with all the applicable PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government authorities will not later determine that we have not been in compliance with certain laws or regulations. Our failure to comply with the applicable laws and regulations in China could subject us to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, as well as civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of our products. It is possible that changes to such laws or more rigorous enforcement of such laws or with respect to our current or past practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, additional environmental or safety issues relating to matters that are not currently known to management may result in unanticipated liabilities and expenditures. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales revenue effectively. Most of our sales revenue and expenses are denominated in RMB. Under PRC law, the RMB is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC operating subsidiaries may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenue will be denominated in RMB, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. 27 Foreign exchange transactions by PRC operating subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC government authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our PRC operating subsidiaries borrow foreign currency through loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance the subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect their ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Because substantially all of our earnings and cash assets are denominated in RMB, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the RMB will affect the relative purchasing power of these proceeds, our balance sheet and our earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, some of our raw materials and major equipment are imported. In the event that the U.S. dollars appreciate against RMB, our costs will increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increases on to our customers, our profitability and operating results will suffer. In addition, since our sales to international customers are growing rapidly, we are increasingly subject to the risk of foreign currency depreciation. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our businesses. Substantially all of our revenues are earned by our PRC subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to their offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividend by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Each of our PRC subsidiaries is also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of our annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in said fund reaches 50% of our registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. 28 Under the New EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and on December 6, 2007, the State Council of China passed the Implementing Rules for the New EIT Law, or the Implementing Rules, which took effect on January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The Implementing Rules define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Offshore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, further interpreting the application of the New EIT Law and its implementation with respect to non-Chinese enterprise or group controlled offshore entities. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an offshore jurisdiction and controlled by a Chinese enterprise or group will be classified as a “non-domestically incorporated resident enterprise” if (i) its senior management in charge of daily operation reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (ii) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (iii) its substantial properties, accounting books, corporate chops, board and shareholder minutes are kept in China; and (iv) ½ directors with voting rights or senior management often resident in China. Such resident enterprise would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income and must pay a withholding tax at a rate of 10% when paying dividends to its non-PRC shareholders. However, it remains unclear as to whether the Notice is applicable to an offshore enterprise incorporated by a Chinese natural person. Nor are detailed measures on imposition of tax from non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. However, as our case substantially meets the foregoing criteria, there is a likelihood that we are deemed to be a resident enterprise by Chinese tax authorities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on financing proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its Implementing Rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC shareholders from transferring our shares. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. 29 The M&A Rule establishes more complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the China Securities Regulatory Commission, promulgated the Provisions Regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Rule establishes procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the PRC Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction and in some situations, require approval of the PRC Ministry of Commerce when a foreign investor takes control of a Chinese domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. The M&A Rule also requires PRC Ministry of Commerce anti-trust review of any change-of-control transactions involving certain types of foreign acquirers. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the PRC Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us. We are a Delaware holding company and most of our assets are located outside of the United States. Most of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Courts in China may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. China does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security or the public interest. So, it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK GENERALLY The market price for shares of our common stock could be volatile and could decline. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “CPSL.” The market price for the shares of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In some cases, these fluctuations may be unrelated to our operating performance. Many companies with Chinese operations have experienced dramatic volatility in the market prices of their common stock. We believe that a number of factors, both within and outside of our control, could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. Factors such as the following could have a significant adverse impact on the market price of our common stock: · our ability to obtain additional financing and, if available, the terms and conditions of the financing; · our financial position and results of operations; · period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in estimates of our performance by any securities analysts; · substantial sales of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or otherwise; · new regulatory requirements and changes in the existing regulatory environment; · the issuance of new equity securities in a future offering; 30 · changes in interest rates; and · general economic, monetary and other national conditions, particularly in the U.S. and China. The trading market in our common stock is limited and illiquid and may cause volatility in the market price. As of June 30, 2009, 67%, or 31,013,715 shares, of our issued and outstanding common stock were owned by non-affiliates, and 31,098,819 of our issued and outstanding common stock were unrestricted and free to trade. The market price for our common stock is subject to volatility and holders of common stock may be unable to resell their shares at or near their original purchase price or at any price. In the absence of an active trading market: · investors may have difficulty buying and selling; · market visibility for our common stock may be limited; and · a lack of visibility for our common stock may have a depressive effect on the market for our common stock. One stockholder, who is our Chief Executive Officer, exercises significant control over matters requiring shareholder approval. Wo Hing Li, our Chief Executive Officer, had voting power as of June 30, 2009 equal to approximately 33% of our voting securities. As a result, Wo Hing Li, through such stock ownership, exercises significant control over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership in Wo Hing Li may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or other transactions that may otherwise be viewed as beneficial by shareholders other than Wo Hing Li. We may be required to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of our shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, develop and exploit existing and new products and to expand into new markets. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and the voting power of shares of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. 31 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. ITEM 