RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR OPERATIONS IN ISRAEL OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WOULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTED IN THE EVENT WE ARE UNABLE TO OPERATE OUR PRINCIPAL PRODUCTION FACILITIES IN MISGAV, ISRAEL. All of our knitting process with respect to our Seamless Division, which includes the major portion of our manufacture of our active-wear products, is performed in a complex of production facilities located in Misgav, which is in northern Israel. These facilities also contain a significant portion of our machinery and equipment, including Santoni machines and adaptations and configurations that we have made to the machinery and equipment, as well as infrastructure that we have tailored to our needs. We have no effective back-up for these operations and, in the event that we are unable to use the production facilities located in Misgav, Israel as a result of damage or for any other reason, our ability to manufacture a major portion of our products and our relationships with customers could be significantly impaired, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operation. For instance, during the third quarter of 2006, our revenues and results of operations were affected by the loss of production due to hostilities in the northern part of Israel, and there is the risk that further hostilities would also impact our production in the future, leading to a reduction in revenues. WE ARE AFFECTED BY CONDITIONS TO, AND POSSIBLE REDUCTION OF, GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS AND TAX BENEFITS. We benefit from certain Israeli government programs and tax benefits, particularly as a result of the "Approved Enterprise" status of substantially all of our existing production facilities in Israel. As a result of our "Approved Enterprise" status, we have been able to receive significant investment grants with respect to our capital expenditures. In addition, following our exhaustion of our net operating loss carry forwards, we have been able to benefit from a reduced tax rate of 25% on earnings derived from these investments for which the benefit period has not expired. To maintain eligibility for these programs and tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions, including making certain specified investments in fixed assets and conducting our operations in specified "Approved Enterprise" zones in Israel. If we fail to meet such conditions in the future, we could be required to refund tax benefits and grants already received, in whole or in part, with interest linked to the Consumer Price Index, or CPI, in Israel from the date of receipt. We have granted a security interest over all of our assets to secure our obligations to fulfill these conditions. The Government of Israel has reduced the available amount of investment grants from up to 38% of eligible capital expenditures in 1996 to up to 24% of eligible capital expenditures (for projects not exceeding investments of NIS 140 million that are submitted in any year) and up to 20% of eligible capital expenditures (for projects exceeding investments of NIS 140 million that are submitted in any year) since 1997. There can be no assurance that the Israeli government will not further reduce the availability of investment grants, and there can be no assurance that there will be any government budget for such grants. The termination or reduction of certain programs and tax benefits, particularly benefits available to us as a result of the "Approved Enterprise" status of some of our existing facilities in Israel, would increase the costs of acquiring machinery and equipment for our production facilities and increase our effective tax rate which, in the aggregate, could significantly reduce our profitability. In addition, income attributed to certain programs is tax exempt for a period of two years and is subject to a reduced corporate tax rate of 10% - - 25% for an additional period of five to eight years, based on the percentage of foreign investment in the Company. We cannot assure that we will obtain approval for additional Approved Enterprises, or that the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, as amended, will not change or that the 25% foreign investment percentage will be reached for any subsequent year. 16 We also benefit from exemptions from customs duties and import quotas due to our locations in Israel and Jordan (Qualified Industrial Zone), and the free trade agreements Israel maintains with the United States, Canada, the European Union, or EU, and the European Free Trade Association, or EFTA. If there is a change in such benefits or if any such agreements were terminated, our profitability may be reduced. Recently, there has been a worldwide trend to reduce quotas and customs in order to promote free trade. If other countries enter into similar free trade agreements and obtain similar benefits, the price of apparel products, including our products, may decline and our profitability may be reduced. See "- THE CANCELLATION OF IMPORT QUOTAS ON TEXTILE GOODS IS CAUSING A DECREASE IN THE SALE PRICE OF SOME OF OUR PRODUCTS." A DETERIORATION IN ISRAEL'S RELATIONSHIPS WITH NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES IN WHICH TEFRON HAS PRODUCTION FACILITIES COULD INTERRUPT TEFRON'S PRODUCTION AND HARM ITS FINANCIAL RESULTS. A significant portion of our manufacturing process is performed in Jordan. Our operations in Jordan depend largely on its relationship with the State of Israel. In the past, there have been hostilities between Israel and Jordan. In addition, there are currently hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians. A deterioration in Israel's relations with Jordan could interrupt our manufacturing operations and would adversely affect our business. THE DETERIORATION OF RELATIONS BETWEEN ISRAEL AND ITS NEIGHBORS CAN ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS Security conditions prevailing in Israel and in the region can influence our business. A deterioration in relations between Israel and its neighbors, where some of our manufacturing facilities are located, can disrupt production processes and the purchase of our products by our customers and negatively affect our financial results. Most of our sewing activities are concentrated in Jordan, and during 2008, approximately 63.1% of our sales derived from the sale of products manufactured in Jordan. Our activities in Jordan are predicated to a large extent on relations between Jordan and the State of Israel. In the past, hostility existed between Israel and Jordan. Likewise beginning with December 2008, the hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians increased, and future hostilities can damage our activity in Jordan. A deterioration in Israel's relations with Jordan can adversely affect our production and our ability to meet delivery on customer orders. WE ARE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS RISKS RELATING TO OPERATIONS IN ISRAEL. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our main offices and manufacturing facilities are located in, the State of Israel. We are directly influenced by the political, economic and security conditions in Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic concerns for Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In July 2006, a conflict with Hezbollah escalated significantly on Israel's northern border, during which our normal activity routine was disrupted, affecting our sales and increasing our costs. In the last few years, the establishment of a Hamas government in Gaza has created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region and has increased hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians. In December 2008 and January 2009, there was an armed conflict between Israel and Hamas, following the firing of missiles into southern Israel. Although our principal executive offices and production facilities are not located in southern Israel, any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could significantly harm our results of operations. 17 The future of Israel's relations with its Arab neighbors and the Palestinians is uncertain. We cannot assure that ongoing or revived hostilities or other factors related to Israel will not have a material adverse effect on us or our business. Generally, all male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 54, unless exempt, are obligated to perform up to 36 days of annual military reserve duty. Additionally, all such residents are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Some of our officers and employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. No assessment can be made as to the full impact of such requirements on our workforce or business, and no prediction can be made as to the effect of any expansion or reduction of such military obligations on our business. During 2004, a general strike at Israel's ports caused a shortage of raw materials and resulted in a loss to the Company of sales of approximately $2.5 million. This shortage also resulted in a decrease in production volume and an increase in operating costs, which affected our ability to achieve greater operating efficiencies. Although Israel's Ministry of Finance, the Histadrut (General Federation of Labor in Israel), and the Israel Ports Authority signed an agreement in February 2005 which was intended to ensure five years without labor strikes, a further strike or labor disruption at Israel's ports occurred thereafter and may occur again in the future. Such strikes and disruptions could have an adverse effect on us or our business. YOU MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ENFORCE CIVIL LIABILITIES IN THE UNITED STATES AGAINST OUR OFFICERS AND OUR DIRECTORS. Most of our officers and all of our directors reside outside the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of our directors and officers may not be collectible within the United States. WE MAY FAIL TO MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404, which started in connection with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management's annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, in connection with the filing of our Annual Report on Form 20-F for each fiscal year. We have documented and tested our internal control systems and procedures in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. While our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting resulted in our conclusion that as of December 31, 2008, our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. 18 