ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before making a decision to invest in our common stock or in evaluating Active Power and our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently view as immaterial, may also impair our business or operations. The actual occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to our Business We have a history of significant operating losses. We have incurred annual operating losses each year since our inception in 1992. Although we achieved operating profitability on a quarterly basis, in the second quarter of 2012, we have not been able to sustain this and achieve quarterly or annual operating profitability since then. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $271.2 million. To date, we have funded our operations principally through the public and private sales of our stock, from borrowings under our credit facility, from product and service revenue and from development funding. We will need to generate significant additional revenue while maintaining our current margins to achieve annual profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will ever realize such revenue levels or achieve profitability on a consistent basis. Our increased emphasis on larger and more complex system solutions and customer concentration may adversely affect our ability to accurately predict the timing of revenues and to meet short-term expectations of operating results. Our increased emphasis on larger and more complex system solutions has increased the effort and time required by us to complete sales to customers. Further, a larger portion of our quarterly revenue is derived from relatively few large transactions with relatively few customers. For example, in 2012 and 2013, our three largest customers contributed 60% and 45% of our revenue, respectively. Any delay in completing these large sales transactions or any reduction in the number of customers or large transactions, may result in significant adverse fluctuations in our quarterly revenue. Further, we use anticipated revenues to establish our operating budgets and a large portion of our expenses, particularly rent and salaries are fixed in the short term. As a result, any shortfall or delay in revenue could result in increased losses and would likely cause our operating results to be below public expectations. The occurrence of any of these events would likely materially adversely affect our results of operations and likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our business may be affected by general economic conditions and uncertainty that may cause customers to defer or cancel sales commitments previously made to us. Any future economic uncertainty in the United States or certain international markets may lead to an economic recession or lower capital spending and credit availability in some or all of the markets in which we operate. A recession or even the risk of a potential recession or uneven economic growth conditions may be sufficient reason for customers to delay, defer or cancel purchase decisions, including decisions previously made. This risk is magnified for capital goods purchases such as the UPS and MIS products that we supply. Although we believe that our competitive advantage and our efforts to broaden the number of different markets in which we sell may help mitigate the economic risk associated with any one country or market vertical, any customer delays or cancellation in sales orders could materially adversely affect our level of revenues and operating results. Should our financial results not meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors, the market price of our stock would most likely decline. Our financial results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our product revenue, operating expenses and quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, you should not rely on our operating results during any particular quarter as an indication of our future performance in any quarterly period or fiscal year. The factors which may affect our business include, among others: ● timing of orders from our customers and the possibility that customers may change their order requirements with little or no notice to us; ● rate of adoption of our flywheel-based energy storage system as an alternative to lead-acid batteries and our continuous power and infrastructure solutions; 16 Table of Contents ● ongoing need for short-term power outage protection in traditional UPS systems; ● deferral of customer orders in anticipation of new products from us or other providers of power quality systems; ● lack of order backlog; ● limited visibility into customer spending plans; ● timing of deferred revenue components associated with large orders; ● ability to manage capital requirements associated with large orders; ● timing and execution of our new product introductions; ● new product releases, licensing or pricing decisions by our competitors; ● commodity and raw material component prices; ● ability to adjust our cost structure in response to reductions in income; ● loss of a significant customer or distributor; ● impact of changes to our product distribution strategy and pricing policies; ● failure to achieve our anticipated revenue growth rate; ● impact of changes to our product distribution strategy and pricing policies of our distributors; ● changes in product mix; ● changes in the mix of domestic and international sales; ● rate of market growth for our products; and ● acceptance of our latest generation UPS product in the marketplace. The market for power quality products is evolving and it is difficult to predict its potential size or future growth rate. Most of the organizations that may purchase our products have invested substantial resources in their existing power systems and, as a result, have been reluctant or slow to adopt a new technology, particularly during a period of reduced capital expenditures. Moreover, our current products are alternatives to existing UPS and battery-based systems and may never be accepted by our customers or may be made obsolete by other advances in power quality technologies. Significant portions of our expenses are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to decreases in revenue. Therefore, if our revenue is below our expectations, our operating results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected. In addition, we may change our prices, modify our distribution strategy and policies, accelerate our investment in research and development, sales or marketing efforts in response to competitive pressures or to pursue new market opportunities. Any one of these activities may further limit our ability to adjust spending in response to revenue fluctuations. We use forecasted revenue to establish our expense budget. Because most of our expenses are fixed in the short term or incurred in advance of anticipated revenue, any shortfall in revenue may result in significant losses. 17 Table of Contents A significant increase in sales of our MIS products may materially increase the amount of working capital required to fund our operations. Because of the significant up-front investment required, and the longer period between order and delivery relative to our UPS products, a significant increase in sales of our MIS products may materially increase the amount of working capital required to fund our operations. The amount of time between the receipt of payment from our customers and our expenditures for raw materials, manufacturing and shipment of products (the cash cycle) for sales of our standard UPS product can be as short as 45 days, and is typically 60 days. However, the cash cycle for MIS sales can be as much as 210 days, depending on customer payment terms. We intend to mitigate the financial impact of this longer cash cycle by negotiating customer deposits and periodic payments where possible from our customers. This is not always commercially feasible, and in order to increase our MIS sales, we may be required to make larger investments in inventory and receivables to fund these sales opportunities. During 2012, we obtained a bank line of credit with borrowing capabilities to help us finance the growth of our MIS business. However, if we experience a substantial increase in the size or number of MIS orders, we may need to obtain additional sources of working capital, debt or equity financing to fund this business. If we are unsuccessful at obtaining additional sources of working capital, we may be required to curtail our level of MIS sales or we may lose potential customers, either of which may cause our financial results not to meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors and adversely impact our results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from international markets and plan to continue to expand such efforts, which subjects us to additional business risks including increased logistical and financial complexity, managing internal controls and processes, political instability and currency fluctuations. The percentage of our total revenue derived from customers located outside of North America was 38%, 40% and 20% in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including: ● foreign laws and business practices that favor local competition; ● dependence on local channel partners; ● compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations; ● longer cash cycles; ● difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations; ● foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and the associated effects on product demand and timing of payment; ● political and economic stability, particularly in the Middle East and Africa; ● greater difficulty in the contracting and shipping process and in accounts receivable collection including longer collection periods; ● ability to fund working capital requirements; ● greater difficulty in hiring qualified technical sales and application engineers; and ● difficulties with financial reporting in foreign countries. To date, the majority of our sales to international customers and purchases of components from international suppliers have been denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros and British Pounds. All of our UPS products are manufactured in the U.S. and then sold to our foreign subsidiaries and customers, normally in U.S. dollars. We generally benefit from the decline in value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies, which makes our UPS products more price competitive in foreign markets. However, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our UPS products more expensive for our international customers to purchase, thus rendering our products less competitive. We also source the non-UPS components for our modular power infrastructure products locally where possible and pay for these components in local currencies as a way to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in foreign currencies and lessen the impact of any unfavorable fluctuations with the U.S. dollar. Because the UPS product is a small part of the total cost of a modular power infrastructure solution, this strategy should help control the effect of currency fluctuations on the pricing of our modular power infrastructure solutions. To the extent our business expands internationally, many of our subsidiaries would be selling products outside of their country of incorporation, and often in foreign currencies. To the extent we record sales in other than our local currency, this can result in translation gains and losses. Currently, we do not engage in hedging activities for our international operations to offset this currency risk. However, we may engage in hedging activities in the future. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of revenue diversification. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of products, particularly our CleanSource 250-900 kVA UPS product family. These UPS products are also an integral component of many of our other products such as CleanSource PowerHouse and our IT infrastructure solutions. We expect these products to continue to account for a large percentage of our revenues in the near term. Continued market acceptance of these products is therefore critical to our future success. Our future success will also depend on our ability to reduce our dependence on these few products by developing and introducing new products and product or feature enhancements in a timely manner. Specifically, our ability to capture significant market share depends on our ability to develop and market extensions to our existing product lines at higher and lower power range offerings and as containerized solutions. We are currently investing significant amounts in our UPS and MIS products to broaden our product portfolio. Even if we are able to develop and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, they may not achieve market acceptance and the revenue generated from these new products and enhancements may not offset the costs, which would substantially impair our revenue, profitability and overall financial prospects. Successful product development and market acceptance of our existing and future products depend on a number of factors, including: ● changing requirements of customers; ● accurate prediction of market and technical requirements; ● timely completion and introduction of new designs; ● quality, price and performance of our products; ● availability, quality, price and performance of competing products and technologies; ● our customer service and support capabilities and responsiveness; ● successful development of our relationships with existing and potential customers; and ● changes in technology, industry standards or end-user preferences. We must expand our distribution channels and manage our existing and new product distribution relationships to grow our business. The future growth of our business will depend on our ability to expand our existing relationships with distributors; to identify and develop additional channels for the distribution and sale of our products; and to manage these relationships. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand our relationships with distributors and develop relationships with new distributors. We will also look to identify and develop new relationships with additional parties that could serve as outlets for our products, or provide additional opportunities for our existing sales channels, such as the relationships we have developed with IT hardware manufacturers such as HP. Our inability to execute this strategy successfully and to integrate and manage our existing OEM channel partners and our new distributors and manufacturer’s representatives would likely impede our future growth. We currently operate without a substantial backlog. We generally operate our business without a large backlog of orders from our customers. Normally, our products are shipped and revenue is recognized shortly after the order is received, usually within three to six months from the date of the order. Because historically our backlog has not been sufficient to provide all of the next quarter’s revenue, revenue in any quarter is often dependent on orders booked and shipped throughout that quarter. We are attempting to increase the size of our backlog to promote greater efficiency in production, to facilitate business planning, and to improve revenue visibility. During periods of economic uncertainty, the rate of customer orders can quickly decrease, limiting our ability to build a substantial backlog. Therefore, there can be no guarantee we can successfully build and maintain a meaningful level of backlog. We must continue to hire and retain skilled personnel. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and product marketing personnel. There is a limited supply of skilled employees in the power quality marketplace. Our small size relative to our competitors and lack of brand equity, particularly in foreign markets, makes it very difficult for us to attract personnel in foreign markets. Our failure to attract and retain the highly trained technical personnel who are essential to our product development, marketing, sales, service and support teams may limit the rate at which we can develop new products or generate revenue, particularly in foreign markets. If we are unable to attract the new personnel we desire, retain personnel we currently employ, or if we are unable to replace departing employees quickly, our operations and new product development may suffer. 19 Table of Contents We are significantly dependent on our relationships with Caterpillar and Hewlett Packard. If these relationships are unsuccessful, for whatever reason, our business and financial prospects would likely suffer. Caterpillar, together with its dealer network, is our primary OEM customer and the single largest customer for our flywheel-based UPS products. Caterpillar accounted for 16%, 13% and 14% of our revenue in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. HP is our largest IT channel partner and accounted for 36%, 35% and 22% of our revenue in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. A number of factors could cause these customers to cancel or defer orders, including interruptions to their operations due to a downturn in their industries, delays or changes in their product offerings or securing other sources for the products we manufacture, or developing such products internally. If our relationships with Caterpillar or HP are not successful or suffer a material adverse change, such as a material reduction in the level of orders or their failure to pay us on a timely basis, our business and operating results would suffer unless we are able to replace these revenues from another source or sources in a timely manner. We have underutilized manufacturing capacity and have no experience manufacturing our products in large quantities. In 2001, we leased and equipped a 127,000 square foot facility used for manufacturing and testing of our three-phase product line, including our UPS and energy storage products. To be financially successful and to fully utilize the capacity of our facility and allocate its associated overhead, we must achieve significantly higher sales volumes. We must accomplish this while also preserving the quality levels we achieved when manufacturing these products in more limited quantities. To date, we have not been successful at increasing our sales volume to a level that fully utilizes the capacity of the facility and we may never increase our sales volume to necessary levels. If we do not reach these necessary sales volume levels, or if we cannot sell our products at our suggested prices, our ability to reach profitability on a quarterly or annual basis would be adversely impacted. Achieving the necessary production levels to absorb the capacity of our manufacturing facility efficiently presents a number of technological and engineering challenges for us. We have not previously manufactured our products in high volume. We do not know whether or when we will be able to develop efficient, low-cost manufacturing capability and processes that will enable us to meet the quality, price, engineering, design and product standards or production volumes required to manufacture large quantities of our products successfully. Even if we are successful in developing our manufacturing capability and processes, we do not know whether we will do so in time to meet our product commercialization objectives or to satisfy the requirements of our customers. We must build quality products to ensure acceptance of our products. The market perception of our products and related acceptance of such products is highly dependent upon the quality and reliability of the products we build. Any quality problems attributable to our UPS or MIS product lines may substantially impair our revenue and operating results. Moreover, quality problems for our product lines could cause us to delay or cease shipments of products or have to recall or field upgrade products, thus adversely affecting our ability to meet revenue or cost targets. In addition, while we seek to limit our liability as a result of product failure or defects through warranty and other limitations, if one of our products fails, a customer could suffer a significant loss and seek to hold us responsible for that loss and our reputation with other current or potential customers would likely suffer. Seasonality may contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Historically our business has experienced seasonal customer buying patterns. In recent years, the UPS industry and our business have generally experienced relatively weaker demand in the first calendar quarter of the year, including a sequential decrease in revenue compared to the fourth quarter. We believe this pattern, which we attribute to annual capital budgeting procedures, may possibly continue. In addition, we anticipate demand for our products in Europe and Africa may decline in the summer months, compared to other regions, because of reduced corporate buying patterns during the vacation season. We depend on sole and limited source suppliers and outsource selected component manufacturing. We purchase several component parts from sole source and limited source suppliers. As a result of our current production volumes, we lack significant leverage with these and other suppliers especially when compared to some of our larger competitors. If our suppliers receive excess demand for their products, we may receive a low priority for order fulfillment as large volume customers may receive priority that may result in delays in our acquiring components. If we are delayed in acquiring components for our products, the manufacture and shipment of our products could be delayed. We are, however, continuing to enter into long-term agreements with our sole suppliers and other key suppliers, when available, using a rolling sales volume forecast in an attempt to stabilize component availability. Lead times for ordering materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier requirements, contract terms, the extensive production time required and current market demand for such components. Some of these delays may be substantial. As a result, we purchase several critical, long lead time or single sourced components in large quantities to help protect our ability to deliver finished products. If we overestimate our component requirements, we may have excess inventory, which will increase our costs. If we underestimate our component requirements, we will have inadequate inventory, which will delay our manufacturing and render us unable to deliver products to customers on scheduled delivery dates. If we are unable to obtain a component from a supplier or if the price of a component has increased substantially, we may be required to manufacture the component internally, which will also result in delays or we may be required to absorb price increases. Manufacturing delays could negatively impact our ability to sell our products and could damage our customer relationships. 20 Table of Contents To assure the availability of our products to our customers, we outsource the manufacturing of selected components prior to the receipt of purchase orders from customers based on their forecasts of their product needs and internal product sales revenue forecasts. However, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments from our customers. We do not recognize revenue for such products until we receive an order from the customer and the product is shipped to the customer. As a result, we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated revenue. As demand for our products may not materialize, this product delivery method subjects us to increased risks of high inventory carrying costs, obsolescence and excess, and may increase our operating costs. In addition, we may from time to time make design changes to our products, which could lead to obsolescence of inventory. Our manufacturing operations are concentrated in a small number of nearby facilities. All of our UPS systems are manufactured in our Austin, Texas facility and our manufacturing, research and development and administrative activities are concentrated in a small number of facilities nearby. If, for any reason, including as a result of a natural disaster, act of terrorism, or other similar event, any of these facilities should be damaged or destroyed or become inoperable or inaccessible, our ability to conduct our business could be adversely affected or interrupted entirely. We face significant competition from other companies. The markets for power quality and power reliability systems are intensely competitive. There are many companies engaged in all areas of traditional and alternative UPS and backup systems in the U.S. and abroad, including, among others, major electric and specialized electronics firms, as well as universities, research institutions and foreign government-sponsored companies. There are many companies that are developing flywheel-based energy storage systems and flywheel-based power quality systems. We may face future competition from companies that are developing other types of emerging power technologies, such as high-speed composite flywheels, ultra capacitors and superconducting magnetic energy storage. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, service, marketing and other resources, broader name and brand recognition and a larger installed base of customers. As a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers and greater service infrastructure than we do. They also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can, which would allow them to respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors have established supplier or joint development relationships with our current or potential customers. These competitors may be able to leverage their existing relationships to discourage these customers from purchasing products from us or to persuade them to replace our products with their products. Increased competition could decrease our prices, reduce our sales, lower our margins, or decrease our market share. These and other competitive pressures could prevent us from competing successfully against current or future competitors and could materially harm our business. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Our success depends upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, and we expect future technological advancements made by us will be critical to achieve and sustain market acceptance of our products. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners and control access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be certain the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where applicable laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. In addition, the measures we undertake may not be sufficient to protect our proprietary technology adequately and may not preclude competitors from independently developing products with functionality or features similar to those of our products. We may be subject to claims by others that we infringe on their proprietary technology. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the U.S. involving patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We may become involved in litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property or defend allegations of infringement asserted by others. Legal proceedings could subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidate our intellectual property rights. Any litigation, regardless of its merits or its outcome, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management’s time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to take specific actions, including: ● cease selling our products that use the challenged intellectual property; ● obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology or trademark, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; ● redesign those products that use infringing intellectual property; or ● cease to use an infringing trademark. 21 Table of Contents Our involvement in any such litigation may cause us to incur unexpected litigation costs, require modifications to or limit our ability to sell our products, and adversely impact our business and reputation. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on our internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. A material weakness or other control deficiency could result in errors in our reported results and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our business and the trading price of our stock. A material weakness is a control deficiency or combination of control deficiencies, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. In 2013, our management identified a material weakness resulting from control deficiencies related to our credit approval process whereby we did not confirm information from an employee of ours in China regarding the facts surrounding Qiyuan, a distributor with which we entered into a distribution agreement. In response to such material weakness, management implemented additional credit approval process procedures including actions to further verify the financial condition and ownership structure of all new customers. The material weakness was remediated as of December 31, 2013. Any further material weakness or unsuccessful remediation could adversely impact investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements. As a result, our ability to obtain any additional financing could be materially and adversely affected, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition and the market value of our stock. In addition, perceptions of us among customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others could also be adversely affected. We can give no assurances the measures we have taken to date, or any future measures we may take, will prevent or remediate any additional material weaknesses in the future. Our pending legal matters have increased our costs and could result in fines and penalties. We are involved in ongoing legal matters as described in the section below titled “Legal Proceedings”. These matters may harm our business and liquidity in the future. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial expenses for legal and accounting services related to such matters. These matters have also required significant time and attention from our management. At this point, we are unable to predict the duration, scope or results of the pending SEC investigation. In connection with our pending legal matters, including any further litigation that may be pursued, we may incur defense costs that may exceed our insurance coverage. We may also incur costs if the insurers of our directors and officers and our liability insurers deny coverage for the costs and expenses related to any litigation. Our pending legal matters are in the early stages and we cannot predict their outcomes. Adverse outcomes or other developments during the course of such matters may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity as well as investors’ perception of our business. The transition to a new Chief Executive Officer and new Chief Financial Officer may limit our ability to effectively execute on our business plan. Effective October 14, 2013, Mark A. Ascolese joined us as our Chief Executive Officer and President. The presence of a new Chief Executive Officer may impact our relationships with customers, vendors, and employees, resulting in loss of business, loss of vendor relationships, and the loss of key employees or declines in the productivity of existing employees. Any or all of these risks could adversely affect our business and operating results. Effective December 4, 2013, James Powers became our Chief Financial Officer. The transition of the Chief Financial Officer position may cause disruptions in our finance and accounting functions, or may limit the ability of our management team to effectively execute on our business plan. If we are unable to transition efficiently and effectively, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operation. Global cybersecurity threats can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology (IT) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats. While we employ comprehensive measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring of our IT networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems), cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage; litigation with third parties; diminution in the value of our investment in research; development and engineering; and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs; which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock We have anti-takeover provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent our acquisition. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. We also are subject to the anti-takeover laws of the State of Delaware, which may further discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. In addition, our agreement with Caterpillar for the distribution of UPS products provides that Caterpillar may terminate the agreement in the event we are acquired or undergo a change in control. The possible loss of a significant customer could be a significant deterrent to possible acquirers and may substantially limit the number of possible acquirers. All of these factors may decrease the likelihood we would be acquired, which may depress the market price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to be volatile in the future. Historically, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. In 2013, the sales price of our common stock ranged from $2.80 to $4.98 per share. In addition to the other risks described in the “Risk Factors” section of this Form 10-K, the market price of our common stock can be expected to fluctuate significantly in response to numerous other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: ● actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; ● changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, any financial guidance we may provide, or our failure to perform in line with such estimates or guidance; ● changes in market valuations of other technology companies, particularly those that sell products used in power quality systems; ● announcements by us or our competitors of significant sales, technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ● introduction of technologies or product enhancements that reduce the need for flywheel energy storage or modular infrastructure products; ● the loss of one or more key OEM customers or channel partners; ● an inability to expand our distribution channels successfully; ● departures of key personnel; ● our ability to obtain additional equity capital or borrowings under our credit agreement; ● the outcome of our pending litigation and SEC investigation; and ● changing external capital market conditions. If the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry or the stock market generally even if these events do not directly affect us. Each of these factors, among others, could cause our stock price to decline. We have pending securities class action litigation and, regardless of its merits or outcome, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. 23 Table of Contents Securities or industry analysts may not publish research or may publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business. The trading market for our common stock will continue to depend on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If we do not continue to maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. Although there are three analysts that provided research coverage on us during 2013, there can be no guarantee these research analysts will continue to provide coverage of us. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. We expect to need additional capital in the future, and it may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. We have historically relied on outside financing and cash flow from operations to fund our operating losses, operations, capital expenditures and expansion. We expect to require additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future to fund our operations or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. We may not be able to secure timely additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of any additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we obtain additional debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. We do not know whether we will be able to secure additional funding, or funding on terms acceptable to us, to continue our operations as planned. If financing is not available, we may be required to reduce, delay or eliminate certain activities or to license or sell to others some of our proprietary technology. Because we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and have no present intention to pay any dividends in the future. Any future determination about the payment of dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our earnings, if any, our capital requirements, our operating and financial conditions and on such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise funds in future stock offerings. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, including resale prospectuses and shares available for resale under Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or the perception such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 