RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO MEXICO, OTHER EMERGING MARKET COUNTRIES AND THE U.S. ECONOMY Mexico has experienced adverse economic conditions o In 2002, Mexico's gross domestic product, or GDP, increased by 0.9% and the inflation rate was 5.7%. o In 2003, GDP increased by 1.3% and the inflation rate was 3.98%. o In 2004, Mexico's GDP increased by 4.4% and the inflation rate was 5.19%. o In 2005, Mexico's domestic product improved and increased by 3.0%, and the inflation rate was 3.33%, lower than expected. Should the Mexican economy fall into a recession or if inflation and interest rates increase significantly, consumers may find it difficult to pay for the products we offer. This and other effects of recession or increased inflation and interest rates could have adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Depreciation or fluctuation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations The single largest component of our cost of sales, our feed, is comprised partially of ingredients we purchase in the United States, where prices are denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, the prices of ingredients we purchase in Mexico may be influenced by U.S. commodity markets. Therefore, should the peso fall relative to the U.S. dollar, both the cost of our operations and our debt payments would increase. Any future depreciation or devaluation of the peso may result in further net foreign exchange losses. 4 In 2005 the Mexican peso appreciated with respect to the U.S. dollar by 4.9% at the end of the year and also the average value of the Mexican peso was 3.6% higher. In 2004, the Mexican peso appreciated with respect to the U.S. dollar by 0.8% at year end, whereas the average value of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar was 4.4% lower, since the peso appreciated at the end of the year. In 2003, the peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 7.3% at year-end, and the average value of the peso against the U.S. dollar during 2003 was 10.5% lower than in 2002. In 2002, the peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 12.2% at year-end, and the average value of the peso against the U.S. dollar during 2002 was 3.4% lower than in 2001. In 2001, the peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 5.0% at year-end, and the average value of the peso against the U.S. dollar during 2001 was 1.5% higher than in 2000. Severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit our ability to transfer or to convert pesos into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness. While the Mexican government does not currently restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer other currencies out of Mexico, the government could institute restrictive exchange rate policies in the future. Currency fluctuations will probably continue to affect our revenues and expenses. Furthermore, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the peso and the U.S. dollar will also affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of the peso price of the Units (one "Series B Share" and one "Series L Share") on the Mexican Stock Exchange and the price of American Depository Shares ("ADSs") on the New York Stock Exchange. Because we pay cash dividends in pesos, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the U.S. dollar amounts received by holders of American Depository Receipts ("ADRs") upon conversion of such cash dividends by the Depositary. High levels of inflation and high interest rates in Mexico could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Mexico has experienced high levels of inflation and high domestic interest rates. The annual rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the National Consumer Price Index was 3.33% in 2005, 5.19% in 2004, 3.98% in 2003, and 5.7% in 2002. Inflation for the first four months of 2006 was 1.01% according to the Mexican Central Bank. According to Banamex, the average interest rates on 28-day Mexican treasury bills, or Cetes, was 9.20%, 6.82% and 6.23% during 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. On May 23, 2006, the 28-day Cetes rate was 7.01%. High interest rates in Mexico could adversely affect our costs. Our earnings may also be affected by changes in interest rates due to the impact those changes have on our variable-rate debt instruments and beneficed by the interest we earn in our cash balance. Political events in Mexico, including transition to a new presidential administration, could affect Mexican economic policy and our operations After 71 years of rule by the Institutional Revolutionary Party ("PRI"), Vicente Fox from The National Action Party ("PAN") was elect President of Mexico in 2000. During his administration there has been a lack of alignment between the legislature and the President that has resulted in deadlock and has prevented the timely implementation of economic reforms, which we believe has had an impact on the Mexican economy. In July 2006, we will have a new presidential election and also we will elect a new legislature. Developments in other emerging market countries may adversely affect our business or the market price of our securities 5 The market value of securities of Mexican companies is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors' reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers. The past economic crisis in Argentina did not have a significant adverse effect on the Mexican economy and the value of Mexican securities. We cannot assure you that the market value of our securities will not be adversely affected by events elsewhere, especially in emerging markets. Developments in the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business Economic conditions in Mexico are heavily influenced by the condition of the U.S. economy due to various factors, including commercial trade pursuant to the North American Free Trade Agreement ("NAFTA"), U.S. investment in Mexico and emigration from Mexico to the United States. Events and conditions affecting the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. RISKS RELATING TO OUR ORGANIZATION The chicken industry is characterized by long-term price declines and cyclical periods The Mexican chicken industry, like the chicken industry in other countries, has been characterized by a long-term decline in prices in real terms. The industry has undergone cyclical periods of higher prices and profitability, followed by overproduction, leading to periods of lower prices and profitability. Real prices for eggs and swine in Mexico have also declined over the long term and have varied cyclically. The market that we serve is subject to volatility with respect to supply, which affects prices. We cannot assure you that future cyclicality, excess supply and downturns in real prices will not adversely affect our results. The price of feed ingredients is subject to significant volatility The largest single component of our cost of sales is the cost of ingredients used to prepare feed, including sorghum, soybean meal, corn, fish meal, meat meal and, for certain chicken products, marigold extract. The price of most of our feed ingredients is subject to significant volatility resulting from weather, the size of harvests, transportation and storage costs, governmental agricultural policies, currency exchange rates and other factors. Given the long-term declining trends in real chicken prices, we may experience difficulty or delays in passing any increase in grain costs to customers. Accordingly, increases in the prices of the main ingredients used in the preparation of feed may have a material adverse effect on our margins and results of operations. Since we purchase many feed ingredients in U.S. dollars, from time to time we may acquire financial instruments to protect us against exchange rate fluctuations that may affect future purchases of feed ingredients. Our operations depend on raising animals and meat processing, which are subject to risks such as disease, contamination and adverse weather conditions Our operations involve raising animals and are subject to a variety of risks, including disease, contamination and adverse weather conditions. Chickens, in particular, are susceptible to infections by a variety of microbiological agents. Since 1983, the avian influenza virus ("AIV") has been widespread in the United States and in Mexico. During 2003, AIV was widespread in Asian countries and the United States. Mexico, to avoid having the disease spread from the United States, imposed certain restrictions on the importation of chicken from affected U.S. states. In 2004 and 2005, AIV was still present in Asian countries and the United States. During 2004 and 2005, Mexico has been eliminating some restrictions on the importation of chicken from certain U.S. states as the sanitary conditions in those states improve. In October 2005, Mexico lifted importation restrictions on all U.S. states, except for 11 counties in the state of Texas. 6 In the past we have experienced limited outbreaks of various diseases that have resulted in higher mortality rates. During 2005, there was an ample diffusion on the media worldwide of the widespread of a particular strain of AIV (H5N1), mainly in Asia and some European countries, which affected the consumption of chicken in those countries. This strain has not been present in the United States or in Latin America so far. Meat and eggs are subject to contamination during processing and distribution. We do not believe that contamination of individual shipments during distribution would have a material adverse effect on our operations. Contamination during processing, however, could affect a larger number of our poultry products and therefore could have a more significant impact on operations. In 2002, we experienced a loss of chickens at our Peninsula Complex due to the effects of Hurricane Isidore. Future hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions could result in additional losses of inventory and damage to our plants and equipment. Our facilities near Mexico's coast are most vulnerable to the risk of severe weather. The use of nutritional supplements and possibility of contamination expose us to risk of loss of consumer confidence in the chicken industry To reduce contamination, we use specialized feedstock and nutritional supplements that have been approved by the Mexican government and meet international industry standards. We cannot assure you, however, that in the future we will not be materially adversely affected by claims or consumer concerns arising out of the use of these products in raising our animals. Our sales are entirely dependent on consumer preferences, and the loss of consumer confidence in the products sold by Mexican meat and egg producers as a result of disease, contamination or other reasons, even if not related to our own products, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face significant competition from other chicken producers in all of our geographic markets and product lines We are Mexico's largest chicken producer, but we face significant competition from other producers in all of the markets in which we sell our products. In 2005, we accounted for approximately 30.9% of total chicken production in Mexico. There are two other major vertically integrated chicken producers in Mexico, which together with Bachoco account for more than 50.0% of Mexican chicken production, with the balance distributed among approximately two hundred small- and medium-sized integrated and non-integrated producers. Each of the two other major companies has substantial financial resources and strengths in particular product lines and regions. We expect to continue to face strong competition in every market, as our existing or new competitors are likely to broaden their product lines and extend their geographic coverage. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our performance will not be adversely affected by increased competition. 7 We face increased competition from U.S. producers In January 2003, import quotas and most tariffs on poultry, eggs and swine were eliminated through NAFTA. Poultry producers in the United States have developed extremely low-cost production methods and have been successful in exporting primarily frozen and further-processed poultry to other countries, especially in periods of overcapacity in the United States. As tariff barriers decline under NAFTA, U.S. producers can be expected to increase exports to Mexico, which could have a material adverse effect on our performance. In January 2003, the Mexican government imposed temporary restrictions on chicken leg quarters imported from the U.S. and both governments confirmed this safeguard in July 2003. The safeguard consists of a five-year limited poultry import measure. The measure, which became effective in 2003, includes quotas and an initial tariff of 98.8% on chicken leg quarters which will slowly decrease until it reaches 0% in 2008. We are a holding company with no substantial operations and depend on our subsidiaries for cash flow We are a holding company with no substantial operations and, consequently, we are dependent on dividends and other payments from subsidiaries for virtually all of our cash flow, including cash flow to pay taxes, service debt, make equity investments, finance the growth of subsidiaries and pay dividends to stockholders. Together with Mexican law, our ability to pay dividends may, in the future, be limited by financial covenants in debt instruments that we, or our subsidiaries, may acquire. RISKS RELATING TO THE ADSS, THE UNITS AND THE SHARES The Robinson Bours family controls our management and their interests may differ from other security holders Certain members of the Robinson Bours family hold the power to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors and have the power to determine the outcome of certain other actions requiring the approval of our stockholders, including whether or not dividends are to be paid and the amount of such dividends. The Robinson Bours family has established two Mexican trusts, which they control ("Control Trust"), that together hold 496,500,000 Shares outstanding on December 31, 2005, including Units and B Units (consisting of two "Series B Shares") representing approximately 65.5% of the Series L Shares and 88.5% of the Series B Shares outstanding. Future sales of Units by the controlling stockholders may affect prevailing market prices for the ADSs and the Units The prevailing market prices for the ADSs and the Units could decline if either: o the Robinson Bours family were to sell substantial amounts of the Units, whether o directly, or o indirectly, through the Mexican trusts through which they hold the Units; or o the perception arose that such a sale could occur. 8 The protections afforded to minority stockholders in Mexico are different from those in the United States Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority stockholders are different from those in the United States. In particular, the law concerning fiduciary duties of directors is not well developed, there is no procedure for class actions or stockholder derivative actions, and there are different procedural requirements for bringing stockholder lawsuits. As a result, in practice it may be more difficult for our minority stockholders of Bachoco to enforce their rights against us or our directors or our controlling stockholder than it would be for stockholders of a U.S. company. Our bylaws restrict the ability of non-Mexican stockholders to invoke the protection of their governments with respect to their rights as stockholders As required by Mexican law, our bylaws provide that non-Mexican stockholders shall be considered as Mexicans with respect to their ownership interests in Bachoco and shall be deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of their governments in certain circumstances. Under this provision, a non-Mexican stockholder is deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of its own government by asking such government to interpose a diplomatic claim against the Mexican government with respect to the stockholder's rights as a stockholder, but is not deemed to have waived any other rights it may have, including any rights under the U.S. securities laws, with respect to its investment in Bachoco. If you invoke such governmental protection in violation of this agreement, your shares could be forfeited to the Mexican government. Our bylaws may only be enforced in Mexico Our bylaws provide that legal actions relating to the execution, interpretation or performance of the bylaws may be brought only in Mexican courts. As a result, it may be difficult for non-Mexican stockholders to enforce their stockholder rights pursuant to the bylaws. It may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons We are organized under the laws of Mexico, and most of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside the United States. In addition, all of our assets and their assets are located in Mexico. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to affect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them. This pertains also to any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Mexico, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. Holders of L Shares and L Share ADSs have limited voting rights Pursuant to our bylaws, holders of Series L Shares are entitled to vote only with respect to certain limited matters specified therein. Holders of Series L Shares can only vote on certain matters specified in our bylaws. With regard to those matters, holders of ADRs may instruct the depositary as to the exercise of the voting rights pertaining to the Series L Shares constituting the Units represented by the ADSs. Holders of Series L Shares are generally not entitled to vote in the election of the board of directors, but holders of Series L Shares do have the right to elect or appoint two directors to the board, which was reduced in April 2003 to 10 members. Members of the Robinson Bours family with ownership interests in Bachoco ("Robinson Bours Stockholders") are the beneficial owners of 65.5% of the outstanding Series L Shares and therefore have the power to elect or appoint the two directors. In addition, holders of Series L Shares are not entitled to vote on the declaration of dividends. Under Mexican law and our bylaws, the declaration, amount and payment of annual dividends are determined at a meeting of our stockholders by a majority vote of the holders of Series B Shares, usually on the recommendation of the board of directors. 9 In our special shareholders' meeting held on April 26, 2006, the conversion of our Series L Shares to Series B Shares on a one to one basis was approved. Non-Mexican stockholders may not be entitled to participate in future preemptive rights offerings Under Mexican law and our bylaws, if we issue new shares for cash as part of a capital increase, we must grant our stockholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage in the Company ("preemptive rights"). We can allow holders of ADSs in the United States to exercise preemptive rights in any future capital increase only in one of the following two circumstances: o we file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to that future issuance of shares; or o the offering qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. We make no promises that we will file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to allow holders of ADSs in the United States to participate in a preemptive rights offering. As a result, the equity interests of such holders in the Company may be diluted proportionately. In addition, under current Mexican law, it is not practicable for the depositary to sell preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds from such sales to ADS holders. Corporate disclosure and accounting in Mexico may differ from other countries There may be less, or different, publicly available information about issuers of securities in Mexico than is regularly published by or about issuers of securities in other countries with highly developed capital markets. In addition, due to country-by-country differences in accounting and other reporting principles and standards, our corporate disclosures may differ in content from disclosures made under other principles and standards, such as U.S. GAAP. 