ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued) ● If we do not comply with agreements that we have made in certain jurisdictions, we may lose favorable tax treatment that results from those agreements. In some jurisdictions in which we operate, favorable tax rates and other tax benefits are subject to our compliance with agreements that we have with relevant governmental agencies. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of those agreements, our tax rate in that jurisdiction might increase or we might lose certain tax benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate or our financial results. ● We may have additional tax liabilities. Our tax expense may be impacted if our intercompany transactions, which are required to be computed on an arm’s-length basis, are challenged and successfully disputed by the tax authorities. In determining the adequacy of income taxes, we assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities’ examinations. The IRS and tax authorities in countries where we do business regularly examine our tax returns. The ultimate outcome of these examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes as a result of examinations, we may be required to record charges to operations that could have a material impact on the results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. ● Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our cash flows and earnings. Due to our global operations, our cash flows, revenue and earnings are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our international sales are quoted, billed and collected in the customer’s local currency in EMEA and in U.S. dollars elsewhere. Our product costs are largely denominated in U.S. dollars. Therefore, our product margins are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may also affect the cost of goods and services that we purchase and personnel that we employ outside of the United States. When appropriate, we may attempt to limit our exposure to exchange rate changes by entering into short-term currency exchange contracts. There is no assurance that we will hedge or will be able to hedge such foreign currency exchange risk or that our hedges will be successful. Our currency exchange gains or losses (net of hedges) may materially and adversely impact our cash flows and earnings. Additionally, adverse movements in currency exchange rates could result in increases in our cost of goods sold or reduction in growth in international orders, materially impacting our cash flows and earnings. ● Global regulation and regulatory compliance, including environmental, technological and standards setting regulations, may limit our sales or increase our costs, which could adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. We are subject to domestic and international technical and environmental standards and regulations that govern or influence the design, components or operation of our products. Such standards and regulations may also require us to pay for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Our ability to sell AIDC products in a given country and the gross margins on products sold in a given country could be affected by such regulations. We are also subject to self-imposed standards setting activities sponsored by organizations such as ISO, AIM, IEEE and EPCglobal that provi de our customers with the ability to seamlessly use our products with products from other AIDC vendors, which our customers demand. Changes in standards and regulations may be introduced at any time and with little or no time to bring products into compliance with the revised technical standard or regulation. Standards and regulations may: ● prevent us from selling one or more of our products in a particular country or region; ● increase our cost of supplying our products by requiring us to redesign existing products or to use more expensive designs or components; ● require us to obtain services or create infrastructure in a particular country to address collection, recycling and similar obligations; or ● require us to license our patents on a royalty free basis and prevent us from seeking damages and injunctive relief for patent infringements. In these cases, we may experience unexpected disruptions in our ability to supply customers with our products or may have to incur unexpected costs to bring our products into compliance. Due to these uncertainties and compliance burdens, our customers may postpone or cancel purchases of our products. As a result, global regulation and compliance could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, gross profit margins and results of operations and increase the volatility of our financial results. ● Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain skilled managers and employees. Competition for skilled employees is high in our industry, and we must remain competitive in terms of compensation and other employee benefits to retain key employees. If we are unsuccessful in hiring and retaining skilled managers and employees, we will be unable to maintain and expand our business. 10 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 