ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued) Furthermore, in order to complete such transactions, we may have to use cash, issue new equity securities with dilutive effects on existing shareholders, take on new debt, assume contingent liabilities or amortize assets or expenses in a manner that has a material adverse effect on our balance sheet or results of operations. We may also consume considerable management time and attention on the integration that would divert resources from the development and operation of our existing business. These and other potential problems could prevent us from realizing the benefits of such transactions and have a material adverse impact on our revenues, revenue growth, balance sheet and results of operations. ● Global regulation and regulatory compliance, including environmental, technological and standards setting regulations, may limit our sales or increase our costs, which could adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. We are subject to domestic and international technical and environmental standards and regulations that govern or influence the design, components or operation of our products. Such standards and regulations may also require us to pay for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Our ability to sell AIDC products in a given country and the gross margins on products sold in a given country could be affected by such regulations. We are also subject to self-imposed standards setting activities sponsored by organizations such as ISO, AIM, IEEE and EPCglobal that provide our customers with the ability to seamlessly use our products with products from other AIDC vendors, which our customers demand. Changes in standards and regulations may be introduced at any time and with little or no time to bring products into compliance with the revised technical standard or regulation. Standards and regulations may: ♦ prevent us from selling one or more of our products in a particular country; ♦ increase our cost of supplying our products by requiring us to redesign existing products or to use more expensive designs or components; ♦ require us to obtain services or create infrastructure in a particular country to address collection, recycling and similar obligations; or ♦ require us to license our patents on a royalty free basis and prevent us from seeking damages and injunctive relief for patent infringements. In these cases, we may experience unexpected disruptions in our ability to supply customers with our products or may have to incur unexpected costs to bring our products into compliance. Due to these uncertainties and compliance burdens, our customers may postpone or cancel purchases of our products. As a result, global regulation and compliance could have an adverse effect on our revenues, gross profit margins and results of operations and increase the volatility of our financial results. ● Seasonal variations in demand could increase the volatility of our financial results. Our revenues are affected by the seasonality of technology purchases and the timing of the introduction of new products and enhancements to existing products. Our quarterly results reflect seasonality in the sale of our products and services, as our revenues are historically highest in the fourth fiscal quarter and the lowest in the first fiscal quarter. Revenues may also decline in quarters when our customers are anticipating new product introductions or significant product enhancements, but may increase significantly in quarters when we announce those product introductions or enhancements. These fluctuations in demand may also impact our ability to manufacture and distribute products in an efficient manner. Any of these factors could increase the volatility of our revenues, gross margins and results of operations from one period to another. ● Our effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors that could have a material impact on our financial results and could increase the volatility of those results. Due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to national and local taxation in many different countries, and we file a significant number of tax returns that are subject to audit by the tax authorities in those countries. Tax audits are often complex and may require several years to resolve. There is no assurance that all or any of these tax audits will be resolved in our favor. In addition, under applicable accounting rules, the value that we report for our deferred tax assets reflects our estimate for these assets, net of those that we believe are more likely than not to expire before being utilized. Our financial results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities or deferred tax assets in the periods when the tax assessments are made or resolved or when statutes of limitations on the tax assessments or tax attributes expire. The outcome of these tax assessments or estimates could have a material positive or negative impact on our earnings and increase the volatility of our earnings relative to prior periods. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 16 ITEM 