ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements concerning our future programs, products, expenses, revenue, liquidity and cash needs as well as our plans and strategies. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and the Company assumes no obligation to update this information. Numerous factors could cause actual results to differ significantly from the results described in these forward-looking statements, including the following risk factors. We have disposed of a substantial portion of our assets and have significantly reduced the scope and changed the nature of our operations. In December 2005, we completed a series of transactions pursuant to which we sold substantially all of the assets used to conduct our staffing services business, other than the IT staffing solutions business that we conduct through our 51% owned joint venture, STS. In August 2007, we entered the technology asset disposition business through our acquisition of Green-Tech’s business. The sale of our staffing operations may subject us to claims of third parties. We completed the Asset Sales with a view toward avoiding a foreclosure action by our lender and maximizing our prospects of reducing our indebtedness to creditors, including our lender, and the possibility of preserving value for our shareholders. In light of the exigent circumstances surrounding the Asset Sales, formal corporate procedures typically required in connection with these types of transactions were not adhered to. As a result, no assurance can be given that creditors and/or shareholders will not assert claims against us related to the Asset Sales. We have limited liquid resources and a history of net losses. Our auditors have qualified their opinion on our financial statements for the year ended September 30, 2006, with a qualification which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue in business depends upon the continued cooperation of our creditors, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our continuing obligations on a timely basis and our ability to obtain additional financing. Current liabilities at September 30, 2007 were $9,787,281 and current assets were $1,749,528. The difference of $8,037,753 is a working capital deficit, which is primarily the result of losses incurred during the previous four years. At September 30, 2007, we owed $1,434,058 under promissory notes that are past due or due upon demand, as well as $300,000 that was due in January 2005 in connection with the redemption of our Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, approximately $3.1 million of payroll taxes, including interest and penalties, was delinquent. We can give no assurance that we will raise sufficient capital to eliminate our working capital deficit or that our creditors will not seek to enforce their remedies against us, which could include the imposition of insolvency proceedings. We may not be able to successfully integrate or manage the operations of Green-Tech If we are unable to successfully manage and integrate the technology asset disposition operations of Green-Tech which we acquired in August 2007, our financial condition and operating results may suffer. We have no prior experience in the technology asset disposition industry and are heavily dependent on the personnel who joined us when we acquired the Green-Tech business. Fluctuations in the general economy could have an adverse impact on our business. Demand for IT staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and unemployment in the United States. Companies use temporary staffing services to manage personnel costs and staffing needs. When economic activity increases, temporary employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. However, as economic activity slows, many companies reduce their utilization of temporary employees before releasing full-time employees. In addition, we may experience less demand for the services we provide through STS and more competitive pricing pressure during periods of economic downturn. Therefore, any significant economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We may be unable to achieve and manage our growth. Our ability to achieve growth will depend on a number of factors, including: the strength of demand for IT solutions consultants and technology asset disposition services in our markets; the availability of capital to fund acquisitions; the ability to maintain or increase profit margins despite pricing pressures; and existing and emerging competition. We must also adapt our infrastructure and systems to accommodate growth and recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Should an economic slowdown or a recession continue for an extended period, competition for customers in the IT staffing solutions and technology asset disposition industries would increase and may adversely impact management’s allocation of our resources and result in declining revenues. 8 We rely heavily on executive management and could be adversely affected if our executive management team was not available. We are highly dependent on our senior executives, including Joseph J. Raymond, our Chairman, CEO and President since September 1, 1997, and Michael A. Maltzman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who has been serving in that capacity since September 1, 1997. We entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Raymond effective September 1, 1997, for continuing employment until he chooses to retire or until his death and that agreement remains in effect as written. In April 2005, we entered into a new employment agreement with Mr. Maltzman which expires in April 2008. The loss of the services of either Mr. Raymond or Mr. Maltzman could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We rely heavily on our management information systems and our business would suffer if our systems fail or cannot be upgraded or replaced on a timely basis. We believe our management information systems are instrumental to the success of our operations. Our business depends on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage significant amounts of data. We continually evaluate the quality, functionality and performance of our systems in an effort to ensure that these systems meet our operational needs. We have, in the past, encountered delays in implementing, upgrading or enhancing systems and may, in the future, experience delays or increased costs. There can be no assurance that we will meet anticipated completion dates for system replacements, upgrades or enhancements that such work will be competed in the cost-effective manner, or that such replacements, upgrades and enhancements will support our future growth or provide significant gains in efficiency. The failure of the replacements, upgrades and enhancements to meet these expected goals could result in increased system costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our financial results will suffer if we lose any of our significant customers. Certain of our engagements to provide services to its customers are of a non-exclusive, short-term nature and subject to termination by the customer with little or no notice. The loss of any of our significant customers could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We are also subject to credit risks associated with our trade receivables. Should any principal customers default on their large receivables, our business results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely affected. We have experienced significant fluctuations in our operating results and anticipate that these fluctuations may continue. Fluctuations in our operating results could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including the demand for our services, the level of competition within our markets, our ability control costs and expand operations, the timing and integration of acquisitions and the availability of qualified IT consultants. In addition, our results of operations could be, and have in the past been, adversely affected by severe weather conditions. Moreover, our results of operations have also historically been subject to seasonal fluctuations and this seasonality may continue in the future. We compete in highly competitive markets with limited barriers to entry and significant pricing pressures and we may not be able to continue to successfully compete. Both the U.S. IT staffing services and technology asset disposition markets are highly competitive and fragmented. Through STS, we compete in national, regional and local markets with full-service and specialized staffing agencies, systems integrators, computer systems consultants, search firms and other providers of staffing services. Green-Tech competes with a small number of large firms and many smaller companies. A majority of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater marketing and financial resources than us. In addition, there are relative few barriers to entry into our markets and we have faced, and expect to continue to face, competition from new entrants into our markets. We expect that the level of competition will remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or maintain or increase gross margins, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, from time to time we experience significant pressure from our clients to reduce price levels, and during these periods we may face increased competitive pricing pressures. Competition may also affect our ability to recruit the personnel necessary to fill the needs of STS’ clients. We also face the risk that certain of STS’ current and prospective clients will decide to provide similar services internally. We may not be able to continue to successfully compete. Our profitability will suffer if STS is not able to maintain current levels of billable hours and bill rates and control its costs. Our profit margin, and therefore our profitability, is largely dependent on the number of hours billed for STS’ services, the rates it charges for these services and the pay rate of its consultants. Accordingly, if we are unable to maintain these amounts at 9 current levels, our profit margin and our profitability will suffer. The rates STS charges for its services are affected by a number of considerations, including: Ÿ its clients’ perception of our ability to add value through our services; Ÿ competition, including pricing policies of its competitors; and Ÿ general economic conditions. The number of billable hours is affected by various factors, including the following: Ÿ the demand for IT staffing services; Ÿ the quality and scope of its services; Ÿ seasonal trends, primarily as a result of holidays, vacations and inclement weather; Ÿ the number of billing days in any period; Ÿ the ability to transition consultants from completed assignments to new engagements; Ÿ the ability to forecast demand for services and thereby maintain an appropriately balanced and sized workforce; and Ÿ the ability to manage consultant turnover. STS’ pay rates are affected primarily by the supply of and demand for skilled U.S.-based consultants. During periods when demand for consultants exceeds the supply, pay rates may increase. STS may be unable to attract and retain qualified billable consultants, which could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. STS’ operations depend on its ability to attract and retain the services of qualified billable consultants who possess the technical skills and experience necessary to meet its clients’ specific needs. STS must continually evaluate, upgrade and supplement our staff in each of our markets to keep pace with changing client needs and technologies and to fill new positions. The IT staffing industry in particular has high turnover rates and is affected by the supply of and demand for IT professionals. This has resulted in intense competition for IT professionals, and we expect such competition to continue. Customers may also hire STS’ consultants, which increases our turnover rate. The failure to attract and retain the services of personnel, or an increase in the turnover rate among STS employees, could have a material adverse effect on IT staffing business, operating results or financial condition. If a supply of qualified consultants, particularly IT professionals, is not available in sufficient numbers or on economic terms that are, or will continue to be, acceptable to us, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to claims as a result of actions taken by our temporary staffing personnel. Actions taken by our temporary staffing employees could subject us to significant liability. Providers of temporary staffing services place people in the workplaces of other businesses. An inherent risk of such activity includes possible claims of errors and omissions, discrimination or harassment, theft of customer property, misappropriation of funds, misuse of customers’ proprietary information, employment of undocumented workers, other criminal activity or torts, claims under health and safety regulations and other claims. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to these types of claims, which may result in negative publicity and our payment of monetary damages or fines, which, if substantial, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Short sales of our common stock could place downward pressure on the price of our common stock. Selling stockholders and others may engage in short sales of our common stock. Short sales could place downward pressure on the price of our common stock. Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business. The implementation of unfavorable governmental regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause the development of the affected markets to become impractical or otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. If we are determined to be a “Professional Employer Organization,” we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations. Certain states have enacted laws which govern the activities of Professional Employer Organizations, which generally provide payroll administration, risk management and benefits administration to client companies. These laws vary from state to state and generally impose licensing or registration requirements for Professional Employer Organizations and provide for monitoring of the fiscal responsibility of these organizations. We believe that Stratus is not a Professional Employer Organization and not subject to the laws which govern such organizations; however, the definition of Professional Employer Organization varies from state to state and in 10 some states the term is broadly defined. In addition, we can give no assurance that the states in which we operate will not adopt licensing or other regulations affecting companies which provide commercial and professional staffing services. Green-Tech is subject to numerous Federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the handling, transport and disposition of hazardous materials, as well as laws pertaining to safeguarding personal data which may be embedded in the technology assets recycled and disposed of by Green-Tech. Any failure to comply with these laws could subject Green-Tech to liability. ITEM 