ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a highly competitive environment in which there are numerous factors which can influence our business, financial position or results of operations and which can also cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Many of these factors are beyond our control and therefore, are difficult to predict. The following section sets forth what we believe to be the principal risks that could affect us, our business or our industry, and which could result in a material adverse impact on our financial results or cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Demand for our products has been volatile and there can be no assurance it will increase in the foreseeable future. Despite an increase in demand for our cold rolled steel products during the year ended June 30, 2014, demand in the foreseeable future is expected to be volatile. China’s economic slowdown is not just cyclical but also reflects a major policy shift. The Chinese government is determined to rebalance its economy from fixed-asset driven, heavy industry to one driven by consumption. If demand for our products does not increase, it would continue to have a material adverse effect upon the Company and our results of operations. - 12 - Steel consumption is cyclical and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products has resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows general economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in various smaller geographic areas. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess world supply. This has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness, which have not always been offset by commensurate price increases during periods of economic strength. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which may further reduce demand for steel. Additional overcapacity or the use of alternative products could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. The risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our accounts receivable may be increased by our practice of offering extended customer credit and payment terms to our customers, together with the current negative global economic conditions. Any such unrecoverable losses could adversely affect our financial results. Credit periods vary substantially across industries, segments, types and size of companies in the PRC where we operate our business. Because of the niche products that we process, our customers are usually also niche players in their own respective segment, who then sell their products to end product manufacturers. The business cycle is relatively long, as well as the credit periods. In view of the negative effects of the continuation and intensification of the credit tightening in China and the slowdown of the Chinese economy, we now generally require a 30% advance from customers on sales contracts signed. The Company does offer credit to certain customers for periods of 60 days and 90 days and occasionally offers longer credit terms to long-standing recurring customers with good payment histories and sizable operations. The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts based on its assessment of the collectability of the accounts receivable. Accounts receivable are recorded at the time revenue is recognized and are stated net of allowance for doubtful accounts. The following table reflects the aging of our accounts receivable as of June 30, 2014 and 2013, after taking into consideration credit periods offered to our customers. June 30, 2014 US$ Total Current 1 to 30 days 31 to 90 days 91 to 180 days 181 to 360 days over 1 year TOTAL 7,601,233 191,720 143,909 183,181 703,144 2,890,311 3,488,698 % 100 3 2 2 9 38 46 June 30, 2013 US$ Total Current 1 to 30 days 31 to 90 days 91 to 180 days 181 to 360 days over 1 year TOTAL 60,123,111 6,328,112 1,605,948 955,364 8,932,972 23,314,353 18,986,362 % 100 10 3 1 15 39 32 Approximately 84% and 71% of our accounts receivable as of June 30, 2014 and 2013 were over 180 days past due. To reserve for potentially uncollectible accounts receivable, management has made a 50% provision for all accounts receivable that are over 180 days past due and 100% provision for all accounts receivable over 1 year past due. There was a provision for accounts receivable bad debts of $4,986,183 and $28,089,004 recognized for the years ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We note that the continuation or intensification of the credit tightening in China and the slowdown of the Chinese economy had and will continue to have negative consequences on the business operations of our customers and adversely impact their ability to meet their financial obligations to us. We will regularly review credit periods offered, along with our collection experience and the other factors discussed above, to evaluate the adequacy of our allowance for doubtful accounts, and to make changes to the allowance, if necessary, including reducing such allowances if uncollectable accounts do not actually increase and the other factors we consider in determining the collectability of accounts do not deteriorate. However, if our actual collection experience with our customers or other conditions change, or the other factors that we consider indicate that it is appropriate, a further provision for doubtful accounts may be required, which could adversely affect our financial results. - 13 - We provide advances to suppliers when placing purchase orders in the ordinary course of our business. If we must write off a material amount of these advances for any reason, or if we are unable to obtain delivery of raw material from suppliers to whom we have paid advances for any reason, our financial results will be negatively impacted. In order to ensure a steady supply of raw materials, the Company is required to regularly make cash advances to its suppliers when placing purchase orders, for a guaranteed minimum delivery quantity at future times when raw materials are required. The advance is seen as a deposit to suppliers and guarantees our access to raw materials during periods of shortages and market volatility, and is therefore considered an important component of our operations. Contracted raw materials are priced at prevailing market rates when the advance purchase contracts are entered into and the balance of our advances decrease when we take down contracted material at a future date. Balances decrease at a slower rate when demand is low as we take fewer deliveries from our suppliers. Advances to suppliers are shown net of an allowance which represents potentially unrecoverable cash advances at each balance sheet date. Our allowances for advances to suppliers are subjective critical estimates that have a direct impact on reported net earnings, and are reviewed quarterly at a minimum to ensure the appropriateness of the allowance in light of the circumstances present at the time of the review. Such allowances are based on an analysis of past raw materials receipt experience and the credibility of each supplier according to its size and background. It is reasonably possible that the Company’s estimate of the allowance will change, such as in the case when the Company becomes aware of a supplier’s inability to deliver the contracted raw materials or meet its financial obligations. As of June 30, 2014 and 2013, the Company had made allowances of advances to suppliers of $3,836,107 and $19,689,609, respectively. Allowances for advances to suppliers are written off when all efforts to collect the materials or recover the cash advances have been unsuccessful, or when it has become known to the management that there is no intention by the suppliers to deliver the contracted raw materials or refund the cash advances. There was a provision for advances to suppliers bad debts of $3,877,488 and $19,348,204 recognized for the years ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. There was a reversal of provision for advances to suppliers bad debts of $nil and $4,704,154 recognized for the years ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. If any additional advances to suppliers must be written-off, or if we cannot secure delivery of raw materials that were prepaid with such advances, our financial results will be negatively impacted. Excess supply in China and other developing economies has resulted in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices, which is adversely impacting our results and may continue to do so in the future. During previous years steel consumption in China and other developing economies such as India increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies responded by increasing steel production capacity in these countries and entering into long-term contracts with iron ore suppliers in Australia and Brazil. During the past year demand for steel in China decreased significantly. The excess manufacturing capacity in China and worldwide has resulted in an excess supply of steel, which has in turn resulted in falling prices for steel and steel products. Our operating results have been materially and adversely affected, and we expect that we will continue to be impacted in the future. Although we are implementing a series of strategies to help improve our operating results, there can be no assurance that we will be able to return to profitability. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Our operating subsidiaries, Chengtong and Shanghai Blessford, are subject to numerous Chinese provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Our consolidated business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if our operating subsidiaries were required to increase expenditures to comply with any new environmental regulations affecting its operations. We may require additional capital in the future and we cannot assure that capital will be available on reasonable terms, if at all, or on terms that would not cause substantial dilution to stockholdings. The development of high quality specialty precision steel requires substantial funds. Sourcing external capital funds for product development and requisite capital expenditures are key factors that have and may in the future constrain our growth, production capability and profitability. To achieve the next phase of our corporate growth, increased production capacity, successful product development and additional external capital will be necessary. There can be no assurance that such capital will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any sale of a substantial number of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock will cause dilution to the holders of our common stock and could also cause the market price of our common stock to decline. - 14 - We face significant competition from competitors who have greater resources than we do, and we may not have the resources necessary to successfully compete with them. We are one of a few manufacturers of specialty precision steel products in China. Differences in the type and nature of the specialty precision steel products in China’s steel industry are relatively small, and, coupled with intense competition from international and local suppliers, to a limited extent, consumers’ demand can be price sensitive. Competitors may increase their market share through pricing strategies that adversely impact our business. Our business is in an industry that is becoming increasingly competitive and capital intensive, and competition comes from manufacturers located in China as well as from international competition. Our competitors may have financial resources, staff and facilities substantially greater than ours and we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared with larger companies. We produce a limited number of products and may not be able to respond quickly to significant changes in the market or new market entrants. Cold-rolled specialty precision steel is a relatively new industry in China; Chinese manufacturers of durable goods previously relied solely on imports from Japan, Korea, the European Union and the United States. We believe the average quality and standards of products of China’s high precision steel industry lags behind the international norm. During the last four years, we have developed a nationally recognizable brand, however, we are not yet an internationally recognizable brand for our specialty steel products. Although we offer high precision cold rolled steel products in over 100 specifications, there are many other specialty precision steel products of similar nature in the market, even though none currently compete directly with our products. If there are significant changes in market demands and/or competitive forces, we may not be able to change our product mix or adapt our production equipment quickly enough to meet customers’ needs. Under such circumstances, our narrow band of precision steel products and/or new market entrants may negatively impact our financial performance. Increased imports of steel products into China could negatively affect domestic steel prices and demand levels and reduce profitability of domestic producers. Based on our understanding, China’s total production capacity of precision cold-rolled steel coils was over two million tons as of June 30, 2014. However, domestic production continues to be insufficient to meet demand due to limited processing capability and product offerings. As a result, China continues to import a significant portion of its steel products. Foreign competitors may have lower labor costs, and are often owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Import levels may also be impacted by decisions of government agencies, under trade laws. Increases in future levels of imported steel could negatively impact future market prices and demand levels for our precision steel products. We are dependent on our Chinese manufacturing operations to generate the majority of our income and profits, and the deterioration of any current favorable local conditions may make it difficult or prohibitive to continue to operate or expand in China. Our current manufacturing operations are located in China, our administrative offices are in Hong Kong and we have additional establishments in the British Virgin Islands. The geographical distances between these facilities create a number of logistical and communications challenges, including time differences and differences in the cultures in each location, which makes communication and effective cooperation more difficult. In addition, because of the location of the manufacturing facilities in China, our operations in China could be affected by, among other things: ● economic and political instability in China, including problems related to labor unrest; ● lack of developed infrastructure; ● variances in payment cycles; ● currency fluctuations; ● overlapping taxes and multiple taxation issues; ● employment and severance taxes; ● compliance with local laws and regulatory requirements; ● greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; and ● the burdens of cost and compliance with a variety of foreign laws. Moreover, inadequate development or maintenance of infrastructure in China, including adequate power and water supplies, transportation, raw materials availability or the deterioration in the general political, economic or social environment could make it difficult, more expensive and possibly prohibitive to continue to operate or expand our facilities in China. - 15 - Our operations are international and we are subject to significant worldwide political, economic, legal and other uncertainties that may make it difficult or costly to collect amounts owed to us or to conduct operations should materials needed from certain places be unavailable for an indefinite or extended period of time. We have subsidiaries in the British Virgin Islands and China. We manufacture all of our products in China and substantially all of the net book value of our total fixed assets is located there. However, we sell our products to customers outside of China as well as domestically. As a result, we have receivables from and goods in transit to locations outside of China. Protectionist trade legislation in the United States or other countries, such as a change in export or import legislation, tariff or duty structures, or other trade policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell products in these markets, or even to purchase raw materials or equipment from foreign suppliers. Moreover, we are subject to a variety of United States laws and regulations, changes to which may affect our ability to transact business with certain customers or in certain product categories. In China, our operating subsidiaries Chengtong and Shanghai Blessford are subject to numerous national, provincial and local governmental regulations, all of which can limit our ability to react to market pressures in a timely or effective way, thus causing us to lose business or miss opportunities to expand our business. These include, among others, regulations governing: ● environmental and waste management; ● our relationship with our employees, including: wage and hour requirements, working and safety conditions, citizenship requirements, work permits and travel restrictions; ● property ownership and use in connection with our leased facilities in China; and ● import restrictions, currency restrictions and restrictions on the volume of domestic sales. The end-use markets for certain of our products are highly competitive and customers are willing to accept substitutes for our products which could reduce our results of operations. Buyers of certain cold-rolled steel products are in highly competitive markets. Cold-rolled precision steel competes with other materials, such as aluminum, plastics, composite materials and glass, among others, for industrial and commercial applications. Customers have demonstrated a willingness to substitute other materials for cold-rolled steel. The willingness of our customers to accept substitutes for cold-rolled steel products could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may not be able to pass on to customers the increases in the costs of our raw materials, particularly crude steel. We require substantial amounts of raw materials in our business, consisting principally of steel slabs and strip steel. Any substantial increases in the cost of crude steel could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The availability and price of crude steel depends on a number of factors outside our control, including general economic conditions, domestic and international supply and tariffs. Increased domestic and worldwide demand for crude steel has had and will continue to have the effect of increasing the prices that we pay for these raw materials, thereby increasing our cost of goods sold. Generally, there is a potential time lag between changes in prices under our purchase contracts and the point when we can implement a corresponding change under our sales contracts with our customers. As a result, we can be exposed to fluctuations in the price of raw materials, since, during the time lag period, we may have to temporarily bear the additional cost of the change under our purchase contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability margins. If raw material prices were to increase significantly without a commensurate increase in the market value of our products, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Although we are dependent on a steady flow of raw materials for our operations, we do not have in place long-term supply agreements for all of our material requirements. Although a substantial portion of our raw material requirements was met by Maoxun Trading Co., Ltd. for the year ended June 30, 2014, we are not dependent on any one single supplier for supply of hot-rolled coils as these coils are generally available in the market. However, we do not currently have long-term supply contracts with any particular supplier, including Maoxun Trading Co., Ltd., to assure a continued supply of the raw materials we need in our operations. While we maintain good relationships with these suppliers, the supply of raw materials may nevertheless be interrupted on account of events outside our control, which will negatively impact our operations. We have substantial indebtedness with floating interest rates and the cost of our borrowings may increase. We are subject to interest rate risk on our non-derivative financial instruments. We do not hedge our interest rate risk. At June 30, 2014, our total outstanding bank borrowings amounted to $43,932,760, all of which were interest-bearing. Substantially all of the bank debt was floating-rate debt with interest rates which vary with changes in the standard rate set by the People’s Bank of China for RMB loans, and LIBOR for USD loans. A change in the interest rate or yield of fixed rate debt will only impact the fair value of such debt, while a change in the interest rate of floating rate, or variable rate, debt will impact interest expense as well as the amount of cash required to service such debt. To the extent interest rates increase, we will be liable for higher interest payments to our lenders. We anticipate that annual interest on loans for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2015 will be approximately $2,793,576. The impact of a 1% increase in interest rates will increase interest expense by approximately $439,327. An increase in short-term interest rates at the time that we seek to refinance short-term borrowings may increase the cost of borrowings, which may adversely affect our earnings and cash available. - 16 - We are dependent on our borrowing facilities to meet our operating needs. Our failure to cure an ongoing default on repayment obligations under certain outstanding loans could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. On January 29, 2010, Shanghai Blessford entered into a Senior Loan Agreement with DEG-Deutsche Investitions-Und Entwicklungsgesellschaft Mbh, or “DEG,” for a loan amount up to $18,000,000 at an annual interest rate of 4.5% above the six-month USD LIBOR rate. The loan is secured by a mortgage on the new cold rolling line and annealing furnaces at Shanghai Blessford’s facilities and guaranteed by the Company. The loan was to have been repaid semi-annually over five years starting on December 15, 2011, but the Company defaulted on its semi-annual principal and interest repayment obligation in June 2012. Further, the Company has not met its financial covenants under the DEG loan agreement such as the Debt Service Coverage Ratio and the Interest Bearing Debt/EBITDA ratio. On June 29, 2011, the Company entered into two short-term loan agreements with Raiffeisen Zentralbank Osterreich AG, or “RZB”, pursuant to which the Company borrowed an aggregate of $27,246,477 at an annual interest rate of 1.15 times the standard market rate set by the People’s Bank of China. The loans are secured by inventories, land use rights, buildings and plant and machinery, and are guaranteed by PSHL and our former Chairman, Mr. Wo Hing Li. Mr. Li also undertook to maintain a shareholding percentage in the Company of not less than 33.4% unless otherwise agreed to with RZB. Principal and interest under the loans were to be repaid in full on July 31, 2012, but the Company has defaulted on this repayment obligation. RZB has filed an arbitration pleading with China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission and an arbitration hearing has been scheduled on October 14, 2014. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully work out a repayment plan with DEG and RZB or otherwise fulfill its obligations under any of the loans. Until such agreement is reached, each of DEG and RZB has the right to take possession of the collateral (which collectively constitute substantial assets of the Company) granted in connection with their respective loan agreements, which action would have a material adverse impact on the Company. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. If we are unable to successfully work out a repayment plan for our defaulted bank loans, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our outstanding debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our secured bank loans restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. The loss of any key executive or our failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our future performance, strategic plans and other objectives. The loss or failure to attract and retain key personnel could significantly impede our future performance, including product development, strategic plans, marketing and other objectives. Our success depends to a substantial extent not only on the ability and experience of our senior management, but particularly upon our Chairperson and Chief Financial Officer, Ms. Tak Tai Leada Li, our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Hai Sheng Chen, and our Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Zu De Jiang. We do not currently have in place key man life insurance for these executive officers. To the extent that the services of these officers would be unavailable to us, we would be required to recruit other persons to perform the duties performed by them. We may be unable to employ other qualified persons with the appropriate background and expertise to replace these officers and directors on terms suitable to us. We may not be able to retain, recruit and train adequate management and production personnel. We rely heavily on those personnel to help develop and execute our business plans and strategies, and if we lose such personnel, it would reduce our ability to operate effectively. Our continued operations are dependent upon our ability to identify and recruit adequate management and production personnel in China. We require trained graduates of varying levels and experience and a flexible work force of semi-skilled operators. Many of our current employees come from the more remote regions of China as they are attracted by the wage differential and prospects afforded by Shanghai and our operations. With the economic growth currently being experienced in China, competition for qualified personnel is substantial, and there can be no guarantee that a favorable employment climate will continue and that wage rates we must offer to attract qualified personnel will enable us to remain competitive internationally. The inability to attract such personnel or the increased cost of doing so could reduce our competitive advantage relative to other precision steel producers, reducing or eliminating our growth in revenues and profits. - 17 - We may not be able to protect adequately our intellectual property from infringement or unauthorized use by third parties. Except for a patent on the Environment-Conscious Mill Bearing with Inner Circular Lubrication, we have no patents or licenses that protect our intellectual property. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our processes and know-how or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our processes and know-how is difficult. Our experienced key engineers and management staff are extensively involved in all facets of research, design, craftwork, styling and development of the specialty precision products. Potential risks on the divulgence of skills and the development of new products increase should these employees resign, as we rely heavily on them. We have elected to protect internally developed know-how and production processes (such as system pressure, cleanliness of the lubrication, temperature control, appropriate allocation of oil supply and retrieving, which are vital in providing a radical solution to the difficulties associated with lubricating rolling mills’ backing bearing) by requiring all key personnel (production engineers and management staff) to sign non-disclosure and confidentiality contracts. However, this means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as extensively as do U.S. laws. Our failure to protect adequately our proprietary rights may allow third parties to duplicate our products, production processes or develop functionally equivalent or superior technology. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or design around our proprietary intellectual property. We are subject to risks associated with changing technology and manufacturing techniques, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage. The successful implementation of our business strategy requires us to continuously evolve our existing products and services and introduce new products and services to meet customers’ needs. Our designs and products are characterized by stringent performance and specification requirements that mandate a high degree of manufacturing and engineering expertise. We believe that our customers rigorously evaluate our services and products on the basis of a number of factors, including, but not limited to: ● quality; ● price competitiveness; ● technical expertise and development capability; ● innovation; ● reliability and timeliness of delivery; ● product design capability; ● operational flexibility; ● customer service; and ● overall management. Our success depends on our ability to continue to meet our customers’ changing requirements and specifications with respect to these and other criteria. There can be no assurance that we will be able to address technological advances or introduce new designs or products that may be necessary to remain competitive within the precision steel industry. We depend upon our largest customers for a significant portion of our sales revenue, and we cannot be certain that sales to these customers will continue. If sales to these customers do not continue, then our sales may decline and our business may be negatively impacted. For the years ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, sales revenues generated from our top five major customers accounted for 40% and 49% of total sales revenues, respectively, with sales to the largest single customer accounting for 11% and 17% of total sales revenues, respectively. We do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers and therefore cannot be certain that sales to these customers will continue. The loss of any of our largest customers would likely have a material negative impact on our sales revenues and business. Defects in our products could impair our ability to sell products or could result in litigation and other significant costs. Detection of any significant defects in our precision steel products may result in, among other things, delay in time-to-market, loss of market acceptance and sales of its products, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, litigation or fines, or increased costs to correct such defects. Defects could harm our reputation, which could result in significant costs and could impair our ability to sell our products. The costs we may incur in correcting any product defects may be substantial and could decrease our profit margins. - 18 - Failure to optimize our manufacturing potential and cost structure could materially increase our overhead, causing a decline in our margins and profitability. We strive to utilize the manufacturing capacity of our facilities fully but may not do so on a consistent basis. Our factory utilization is dependent on our success in, among other things: ● accurately forecasting demand; ● predicting volatility; ● timing volume sales to our customers; ● balancing our productive resources with product mix; and ● planning manufacturing services for new or other products that we intend to produce. Demand for contract manufacturing of these products may not be as high as we expect, and we may fail to realize the expected benefit from our investment in our manufacturing facilities. Our profitability and operating results are also dependent upon a variety of other factors, including, but not limited to: ● utilization rates of manufacturing lines; ● downtime due to product changeover; ● impurities in raw materials causing shutdowns; and ● maintenance of contaminant-free operations. Failure to optimize our manufacturing potential and cost structure could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Moreover, our cost structure is subject to fluctuations from inflationary pressures in China and other geographic regions where we conduct business. China has experienced dramatic growth in its economy in the past years. This growth may lead to continued pressure on wages and salaries that may exceed our budget and adversely affect our operating results. Our production facilities are subject to risks of power shortages which may adversely affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs and reduce our revenues. Many cities and provinces in China have suffered serious power shortages since 2004. Many of the regional grids do not have sufficient power generating capacity to fully satisfy the increased demand for electricity driven by continual economic growth and persistent hot weather. Local governments have occasionally required local factories to temporarily shut down their operations or reduce their daily operational hours in order to reduce local power consumption levels. To date, our operations have not been affected by those administrative measures. However, there is a risk that our operations may be affected by those administrative measures in the future, thereby causing material production disruption and delay in delivery schedule. In such event, our business, results of operation and financial conditions could be materially adversely affected. We do not have any back-up power generation system. Although we have not experienced any power outages in the past, we may be adversely affected by power outages in the future. Unexpected equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. Interruptions in our production capabilities will adversely affect our production costs, products available for sales and earnings for the affected period. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as our various cold-rolling mills, as well as electrical equipment, such as transformers, and this equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures. We have experienced and may in the future experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures. Our insurance may not be adequate if our production facilities were destroyed or significantly damaged as a result of fire or some other natural disaster. All of our products are currently manufactured at our existing facilities located in the Jiading District in Shanghai, China. Fire fighting and disaster relief or assistance in China may not be as developed as in Western countries. While we maintain property damage insurance aggregating approximately $83 million covering our inventories, equipment, plant and buildings and another $35 million insurance against equipment damage, we do not maintain business interruption insurance. Material damage to, or the loss of, our production facilities due to fire, severe weather, flood or other act of God or cause, even if insured, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. - 19 - Our holding company structure may limit the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions as discussed below. If future dividends are paid in RMB, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of RMB into U.S. dollars may reduce the amount received by U.S. stockholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. Chinese regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after tax profits according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. Currently, our subsidiaries in China are the only sources of revenues or investment holdings for the payment of dividends. If they do not accumulate sufficient profits under Chinese accounting standards and regulations to first fund certain reserve funds as required by Chinese accounting standards, we will be unable to pay any dividends. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in China, which may experience corruption. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company, because these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. Also, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our ineffective internal controls over financial reporting which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. As required by Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, our management evaluated the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of June 30, 2014. Based upon, and as of the date of that evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective because our accounting staff lacked sufficient accounting skills and experience necessary to fulfill our public reporting obligations according to U.S. GAAP and the SEC’s rules and regulations. Effective internal control is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to help prevent financial fraud. If we cannot remediate this material weakness in our internal controls in a timely manner, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and the trading price of our Common Stock. The Company’s Independent Auditor included a Going Concern emphasis-of-matter paragraph in its report on our June 30, 2014 consolidated financial statements. The independent auditor’s report accompanying the Company’s audited June 30, 2014 consolidated financial statements contains an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to generate sufficient positive cash flow from operations to address all of its cash flow needs, and to continue as a going concern. If the Company does not continue as a going concern, it will have to cease operations and you would likely lose all of your investment in the Company. - 20 - RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate most of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: ● a higher level of government involvement; ● an early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; ● a rapid growth rate; ● a higher level of control over foreign exchange; and ● the allocation of resources. As the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our services and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in the PRC. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, all of our executive officers and all of our directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to affect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese operations and subsidiaries. If we are found to have failed to comply with applicable laws, we may incur additional expenditures or be subject to significant fines and penalties. Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to us. However, many PRC laws and regulations are uncertain in their scope, and the implementation of such laws and regulations in different localities could have significant differences. In certain instances, local implementation rules and/or the actual implementation are not necessarily consistent with the regulations at the national level. Although we strive to comply with all the applicable PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government authorities will not later determine that we have not been in compliance with certain laws or regulations. In addition, our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these and other applicable laws and regulations in China could subject us to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, as well as civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of our products. It is possible that changes to such laws or more rigorous enforcement of such laws or with respect to our current or past practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, additional environmental, health or safety issues relating to matters that are not currently known to management may result in unanticipated liabilities and expenditures. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. - 21 - Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in RMB and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our revenues may be denominated. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars, as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, neither of our raw materials or major equipment is imported. In the event that we do need to import these in the future and the U.S. dollars appreciate against RMB, our costs will increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increases on to our customers, our profitability and operating results will suffer. In addition, since our sales to international customers are growing rapidly, we are increasingly subject to the risk of foreign currency depreciation. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Substantially all of our revenues are earned by our PRC subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to their offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our PRC subsidiaries are also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of their annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC generally accepted accounting principles to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in said fund reaches 50% of our registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances, or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. - 22 - You may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us. We are a Delaware holding company and most of our assets are located outside of the United States. Almost all of our operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Although the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are generally provided for under the PRC Civil Procedures Law. Courts in China may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. China does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security or the public interest. So it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. Our auditor for the year ended June 30, 2013, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China and Hong Kong (to the extent their audit clients have operations in China), is not permitted to be subject to inspections by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, our investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspections. The independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit report for June 30, 2013 included in our filings made with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. However, our operations are mainly located in the PRC, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of relevant PRC authorities. Our former auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China and Hong Kong (to the extent their audit clients have operations in China), is currently not subject to inspections conducted by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China and Hong Kong have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve the quality of future audits. The inability of PCAOB to inspect independent registered public accounting firms operating in China and Hong Kong makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit and quality control procedures compared to those conducted by auditors outside of China and Hong Kong that are subject to the PCAOB inspections. As a result, our investors may be deprived of the benefits of the PCAOB inspections. Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75, which required PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Amendments to registrations made under Circular 75 are required in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75 may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the SPV’s affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China. We have asked our stockholders who are PRC residents as defined in Circular 75, to register with the relevant branch of SAFE as currently required in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiary. However, we cannot provide any assurances that they can obtain the above SAFE registrations required by Circular 75. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 by our PRC resident beneficial holders. - 23 - In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident stockholders to comply with Circular 75, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Under the New Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC stockholders. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China passed the EIT Law and on November 28, 2007, the State Council of China passed its implementing rules, both of which took effect on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Offshore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, further interpreting the application of the EIT Law and its implementation against non-Chinese enterprise or group controlled offshore entities. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an offshore jurisdiction and controlled by a Chinese enterprise or group will be classified as a “domestically incorporated resident enterprise” if (i) its senior management in charge of daily operations reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (ii) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (iii) its substantial assets and properties, accounting books, corporate chops, board and shareholder minutes are kept in China; and (iv) at least half of its directors with voting rights or senior management often resident in China. A resident enterprise would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income and its non-PRC stockholders would be subject to a withholding tax at a rate of 10% when dividends are paid to such non-PRC stockholders. However, it remains unclear as to whether the Notice is applicable to an offshore enterprise incorporated by a Chinese natural person. Nor are detailed measures on enforcement of PRC tax against non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. We may be deemed to be a resident enterprise by Chinese tax authorities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on financing proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiary would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC stockholders from transferring our shares. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK The market price for shares of our common stock could be volatile and could decline. The market price for the shares of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In some cases, these fluctuations may be unrelated to our operating performance. Many companies with Chinese operations have experienced dramatic volatility in the market prices of their common stock. We believe that a number of factors, both within and outside of our control, could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. Factors such as the following could have a significant adverse impact on the market price of our common stock: ● our ability to obtain additional financing and, if available, the terms and conditions of the financing; ● our financial position and results of operations; ● period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; ● changes in estimates of our performance by any securities analysts; ● substantial sales of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or otherwise; ● new regulatory requirements and changes in the existing regulatory environment; ● the issuance of new equity securities in a future offering; ● changes in interest rates; and ● general economic, monetary and other national conditions, particularly in the U.S. and China. - 24 - Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. For example, in July 2008, the securities markets in the United States, China and other jurisdictions experienced the largest decline in share prices since September 2001. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. Although publicly traded, the trading volume of our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock listed on main exchanges such as the NASDAQ Stock Market and this low trading volume may adversely affect the price of our common stock. On July 10, 2014, a Form 25-NSE was filed by NASDAQ Stock Market LLC and the Company’s securities were removed from listing on the NASDAQ Stock Market due to the failure to pay certain fees required by Listing Rule 5250(f). The Company’s securities are now trading on the OTC Bulletin Board under the same symbol “CPSL”. The trading volume of our common stock has been comparatively low to other companies listed on main exchanges such as the NASDAQ. Limited trading volume will subject our shares of common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to you. We may be required to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of our shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. We may require additional financing to fund: repayment of debt, our future operations and working capital requirements, development and exploitation of existing and new products, and expansion into new markets. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and the voting power of shares of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. ITEM 