Risk Factors Risks Relating to México, Other Emerging Market Countries and the U.S. Economy México has experienced adverse economic conditions · In 2002, México’s gross domestic product, or GDP, increased by 0.9% and the inflation rate was 5.7%. · In 2003, GDP increased by 1.3% and the inflation rate was 3.98%. · In 2004, México’s GDP increased by 4.4% and the inflation rate was 5.19%. · In 2005, México’s GDP improved and increased by 3.0%, and the inflation rate was 3.33%, lower than expected. · In 2006, GDP increased by 4.8% while the inflation rate was 4.05%. Should the Mexican economy fall into a recession or if inflation and interest rates increase significantly, consumers may find it difficult to pay for the products we offer. This and other effects of recession or increased inflation and interest rates could have adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Depreciation or fluctuation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations The single largest component of our cost of sales, our feed, is comprised partially of ingredients we purchase in the United States, where prices are denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, the prices of ingredients we purchase in México may be influenced by U.S. commodity markets. Therefore, should the peso fall relative to the U.S. dollar, both the cost of our operations and our debt payments would increase. Any future depreciation or devaluation of the peso may result in further net foreign exchange losses. · In 2003, the peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 7.3% at year-end, and the average value of the peso against the U.S. dollar during 2003 was 10.5% lower than in 2002. · In 2004, the Mexican peso appreciated with respect to the U.S. dollar by 0.8% at year end, whereas the average value of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar was 4.4% lower, since the peso appreciated at the end of the year. · In 2005, the Mexican peso appreciated with respect to the U.S. dollar by 4.9% at the end of the year and also the average value of the Mexican peso was 3.6% higher. · In 2006, the Mexican peso was reasonably stable in its peso-dollar exchange rate with a final depreciation of 1.6%, compared to the end of 2005. The average value of the Mexican peso was 0.10% lower than the average of 2005. Severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit our ability to transfer or to convert pesos into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness. While the Mexican government does not currently restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer other currencies out of México, the government could institute restrictive exchange rate policies in the future. Currency fluctuations will probably continue to affect our revenues and expenses. 4 Furthermore, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the peso and the U.S. dollar will also affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of the peso price of our Shares (the “Shares” or “Series B Shares”) in the Mexican Stock Exchange and the price of American Depository Shares (“ADSs”) on the New York Stock Exchange. Because we pay cash dividends in pesos, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the U.S. dollar amounts received by holders of American Depository Receipts (“ADRs”) upon conversion of such cash dividends by the Depositary. High levels of inflation and high interest rates in México could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations México has experienced high levels of inflation and high domestic interest rates in the past. The annual rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the National Consumer Price Index was 5.7% in 2002, 3.98% in 2003, 5.19% in 2004, 3.33% in 2005 and 4.05% in 2006. Inflation for the first four months of 2006 was 0.96% according to the Mexican Central Bank. According to Banamex, the average interest rates on 28-day Mexican treasury bills, or Cetes, was 6.23%, 6.82%, 9.20% and 7.19% during 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 respectively. On May 21, 2007, the 28-day Cetes rate was 7.23%. High interest rates in México could adversely affect our costs. Our earnings may also be affected by changes in interest rates due to the impact those changes have on our variable-rate debt instruments and beneficed by the interest we earn in our cash balance. Political events in México could affect Mexican economic policy and our operations In July 2006, we had presidential election, where Felipe Calderón was elected as the new President of México. President Calderón’s election initially met resistance from members of the political opposition in the form of legal challenges and protests. These protests could return as President Calderón seeks to enact his legislative agenda. We cannot predict the impact that future protests may have on the Mexican government or on business conditions in México. Although President Calderón’s party, the Parido Accíon Nacional, or PAN, obtained a plurality of the seats in the Mexican Congress after the election, no party succeeded in securing a majority in either chamber of the Mexican Congress. The absence of a clear majority by a single party and the lack of alignment between the president-elect and the legislature are likely to continue until the next Congressional election in 2009. This situation may result in government gridlock and political uncertainty, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We cannot provide any assurance that future political developments in México, over which we have no control, will not have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Developments in other emerging market countries may adversely affect our business or the market price of our securities The market value of securities of Mexican companies is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in México, investors’ reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers. We cannot assure you that the market value of our securities will not be adversely affected by events elsewhere, especially in emerging markets. 5 Developments in the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business Economic conditions in México are heavily influenced by the condition of the U.S. economy due to various factors, including commercial trade pursuant to the North American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”), U.S. investment in México and emigration from México to the United States. Events and conditions affecting the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Risks Relating to our Organization The chicken industry is characterized by long-term price declines and cyclical periods The Mexican chicken industry, like the chicken industry in other countries, has been characterized by a long-term decline in prices in real terms. The industry has undergone cyclical periods of higher prices and profitability, followed by overproduction, leading to periods of lower prices and profitability. Real prices for eggs and swine in México have also declined over the long term and have varied cyclically. The market that we serve is subject to volatility with respect to supply, which affects prices. We cannot assure you that future cyclicality, excess supply and downturns in real prices will not adversely affect our results. The price of feed ingredients is subject to significant volatility The largest single component of our cost of sales is the cost of ingredients used to prepare feed, including sorghum, soybean meal, corn, fish meal, meat meal and, for certain chicken products, marigold extract. The price of most of our feed ingredients is subject to significant volatility resulting from weather, the size of harvests, transportation and storage costs, governmental agricultural policies, currency exchange rates and other factors. Given the long-term declining trends in real chicken prices, we may experience difficulty or delays in passing any increase in grain costs to customers. Accordingly, increases in the prices of the main ingredients used in the preparation of feed may have a material adverse effect on our margins and results of operations. Since we purchase many feed ingredients in U.S. dollars, from time to time we may acquire financial instruments to protect us against exchange rate fluctuations that may affect future purchases of feed ingredients. Our operations depend on raising animals and meat processing, which are subject to risks such as disease, contamination and adverse weather conditions Our operations involve raising animals and are subject to a variety of risks, including disease, contamination and adverse weather conditions. Chickens, in particular, are susceptible to infections by a variety of microbiological agents. Since 1983, the avian influenza virus (“AIV”) has been widespread in the United States and in México. During 2003, AIV was widespread in Asian countries and the United States. México, to avoid having the disease spread from the United States, imposed certain restrictions on the importation of chicken from affected U.S. states. The AIV was still present in Asian countries and the United States. At the present México has been eliminating some restrictions on the importation of chicken from certain U.S. states as the sanitary conditions in those states improve. In 2004 and 2005, AIV was still present in Asian countries and the United States. During 2004 and 2005, México has been eliminating some restrictions on the importation of chicken from certain U.S. states as the sanitary conditions in those states improve. In October 2005, México lifted importation restrictions on all U.S. states, except for 11 counties in the state of Texas. In the past we have experienced limited outbreaks of various diseases that have resulted in higher mortality rates. 6 During 2005, there was an ample diffusion on the media worldwide of the widespread of a particular strain of AIV (H5N1), mainly in Asia and some European countries, which affected consumption of chicken in those countries. At the present time, this strain has not been found in the United States or in Latin America. Meat and eggs are subject to contamination during processing and distribution. We do not believe that contamination of individual shipments during distribution would have a material adverse effect on our operations. Contamination during processing, however, could affect a larger number of our poultry products and therefore could have a more significant impact on operations. In 2002, we experienced a loss of chickens at our Peninsula Complex due to the effects of Hurricane Isidore. Future hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions could result in additional losses of inventory and damage to our plants and equipment. Our facilities near México’s coast are most vulnerable to the risk of severe weather The use of nutritional supplements and the possibility of contamination expose us to risk of loss of consumer confidence in the chicken industry To reduce contamination, we use specialized feedstock and nutritional supplements that have been approved by the Mexican government and meet international industry standards. We cannot assure you, however, that in the future we will not be materially adversely affected by claims or consumer concerns arising out of the use of these products in raising our animals. Our sales are entirely dependent on consumer preferences, and the loss of consumer confidence in the products sold by Mexican meat and egg producers as a result of disease, contamination or other reasons, even if not related to our own products, could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. We face significant competition from other chicken producers in all of our geographic markets and product lines We are México’s largest chicken producer, but we face significant competition from other producers in all of the markets in which we sell our products. In 2006, we accounted for approximately 29.9% of total chicken production in México. There are two other major vertically integrated chicken producers in México, which together with Bachoco account for more than 50.0% of Mexican chicken production, with the balance distributed among approximately two hundred small- and medium-sized integrated and non-integrated producers. Each of the two other major companies has substantial financial resources and strengths in particular product lines and regions. We expect to continue to face strong competition in every market, as our existing or new competitors are likely to broaden their product lines and extend their geographic coverage. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our performance will not be adversely affected by increased competition. We face increased competition from U.S. producers In January 2003, import quotas and most tariffs on poultry, eggs and swine were eliminated through NAFTA. Poultry producers in the United States have developed extremely low-cost production methods and have been successful in exporting primarily frozen and value-added poultry to other countries, especially in periods of overcapacity in the United States. As tariff barriers decline under NAFTA, U.S. producers can be expected to increase exports to México, which could have a material adverse effect on our performance. 7 In July 2003, the Mexican government imposed temporary restrictions on chicken leg quarters imported from the U.S. and both governments confirmed this safeguard in July 2003. The safeguard consists of a five-year limited poultry import measure. The measure, which became effective in 2003, includes quotas and an initial tariff of 98.8% on chicken leg quarters that will slowly decrease until it reaches 0% in 2008. We are a holding company with no substantial operations and depend on our subsidiaries for cash flow We are a holding company with no substantial operations and, consequently, we are dependent on dividends and other payments from subsidiaries for virtually all of our cash flow, including cash flow to pay taxes, service debt, make equity investments, finance the growth of subsidiaries and pay dividends to stockholders. Together with Mexican law, our ability to pay dividends may, in the future, be limited by financial covenants in debt instruments that we, or our subsidiaries, may acquire. Risks Relating to the ADS, and the Shares in the Mexican Market The Robinson Bours family controls our management and their interests may differ from other security holders Certain members of the Robinson Bours family hold the power to elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors and have the power to determine the outcome of certain other actions requiring the approval of our stockholders, including whether or not dividends are to be paid and the amount of such dividends. The Robinson Bours family has established two Mexican trusts, which they control (“Control Trust”), that together hold 496,500,000 Shares outstanding on December 31, 2006. Future sales of Shares by the controlling stockholders may affect prevailing market prices for the ADSs and the Shares trading at the Mexican Market. The prevailing market prices for the ADSs and Shares could decline if either: · the Robinson Bours family were to sell substantial amounts of their Shares, whether · directly, or · indirectly, through the Mexican trusts through which they hold Shares; or · the perception arose that such a sale could occur. The protections afforded to minority stockholders in México are different from those in the United States Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority stockholders are different from those in the United States. In particular, the law concerning fiduciary duties of directors is not well developed, there is no procedure for class actions or stockholder derivative actions, and there are different procedural requirements for bringing stockholder lawsuits. As a result, in practice it may be more difficult for our minority stockholders of Bachoco to enforce their rights against us or our directors or our controlling stockholder than it would be for stockholders of a U.S. company. 8 Our bylaws restrict the ability of non-Mexican stockholders to invoke the protection of their governments with respect to their rights as stockholders As required by Mexican law, our bylaws provide that non-Mexican stockholders shall be considered as Mexicans with respect to their ownership interests in Bachoco and shall be deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of their governments in certain circumstances. Under this provision, a non-Mexican stockholder is deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of its own government by asking such government to interpose a diplomatic claim against the Mexican government with respect to the stockholder’s rights as a stockholder, but is not deemed to have waived any other rights it may have, including any rights under the U.S. securities laws, with respect to its investment in Bachoco. If you invoke such governmental protection in violation of this agreement, your Shares could be forfeited to the Mexican government. Our bylaws may only be enforced in México Our bylaws provide that legal actions relating to the execution, interpretation or performance of the bylaws may be brought only in Mexican courts. As a result, it may be difficult for non-Mexican stockholders to enforce their stockholder rights pursuant to the bylaws. It may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons We are organized under the laws of México, and most of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside the United States. In addition, all of our assets and their assets are located in México. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to affect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them. This pertains also to any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in México, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. Non-Mexican stockholders may not be entitled to participate in future preemptive rights offerings Under Mexican law and our bylaws, if we issue new Shares for cash as part of a capital increase, we must grant our stockholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of Shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage in the Company (“preemptive rights”). We can allow holders of ADSs in the United States to exercise preemptive rights in any future capital increase only in one of the following two circumstances: · we file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to that future issuance of Shares; or · the offering qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. We make no promises that we will file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to allow holders of ADSs in the United States to participate in a preemptive rights offering. As a result, the equity interests of such holders in the Company may be diluted proportionately. In addition, under current Mexican law, it is not practicable for the depositary to sell preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds from such sales to ADS holders. 9 Corporate disclosure and accounting in México may differ from other countries There may be less, or different, publicly available information about issuers of securities in México than is regularly published by or about issuers of securities in other countries with highly developed capital markets. In addition, due to country-by-country differences in accounting and other reporting principles and standards, our corporate disclosures may differ in content from disclosures made under other principles and standards, such as U.S. GAAP. ITEM 