Item 1A. Risk Factors Shareholders should carefully consider the following risk factors in conjunction with the other information contained in this report. The risks discussed in this report could adversely affect our business, operating results, prospects and financial condition. This could cause the value of our common shares and other securities to decline and/or you to lose part or all of any investment in our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face, but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that, as of the date of this report, we deem immaterial may also harm our business. Some statements in this report, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to “Forward-Looking Statements” above in this report. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations General risks Changes in general economic conditions may adversely affect our business. Our business and operations depend on the commercial real estate industry generally, which in turn depends upon broad economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad. A worsening of economic conditions would likely have a negative impact on the commercial real estate industry generally and on our business and operations specifically. Additionally, disruptions in the global economy may also have a negative impact on the commercial real estate market domestically. Adverse conditions in the commercial real estate industry could harm our business and financial condition by, among other factors, reducing the value of our existing assets, limiting our access to debt and equity capital, limiting our ability to originate new commercial real estate debt or acquire or finance investments in real estate and otherwise negatively impacting our operations. . See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations- Trends That May Affect Our Business” for a description of some of the specific economic trends that may affect our business. 8 The allocation of capital among our business lines may vary, which may adversely affect our financial performance. In executing our business plan, we regularly consider the allocation of capital to our various commercial real estate business lines. The allocation of capital among such business lines may vary due to market conditions, the expected relative return on equity of each activity, the judgment of our management team, the demand in the marketplace for commercial real estate loans and securities and the availability of specific investment opportunities. We also consider the availability and cost of our likely sources of capital. If we fail to appropriately allocate capital and resources across our business lines or fail to optimize our investment and capital raising opportunities, our financial performance may be adversely affected. In addition to other analytical tools, our management team utilizes financial models to evaluate loans and real estate assets, the accuracy and effectiveness of which cannot be guaranteed. In all cases, financial models are only estimates of future results which are based upon assumptions made at the time that the projections are developed. There can be no assurance that management’s projected results will be obtained; actual results may vary significantly from the projections. General economic and industry-specific conditions, which are not predictable, can significantly impact the reliability of projections. Loss of our management team or the ability to attract and retain key employees could harm our business. The real estate finance business is very labor-intensive. We depend on our management team to manage our investments and attract customers for financing by, among other things, developing relationships with issuers, financial institutions and others. The market for skilled personnel is highly competitive and has historically experienced a high rate of turnover. Due to the nature of our business, we compete for qualified personnel not only with companies in our business, but also in other sectors of the financial services industry. Competition for qualified personnel may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract or retain qualified personnel at reasonable costs or at all. If we are unable to attract or retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel at manageable costs, it could impair our ability to manage our investments and execute our investment strategies successfully, thereby reducing our earnings. We may not be able to hire and retain qualified loan originators or grow and maintain our relationships with key loan brokers, and if we are unable to do so, our ability to implement our business and growth strategies could be limited. We depend on our loan originators to generate borrower clients by, among other things, developing relationships with commercial property owners, real estate agents and brokers, developers, loan brokers and others, which we believe leads to repeat and referral business. Accordingly, we must be able to attract, motivate and retain skilled loan originators. The market for loan originators is highly competitive and may lead to increased costs to hire and retain them. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract or retain qualified loan originators. If we cannot attract, motivate or retain a sufficient number of skilled loan originators, at a reasonable cost or at all, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We also depend on our network of loan brokers, who generate a significant portion of our loan originations. While we strive to cultivate long-standing relationships that generate repeat business for us, brokers are free to transact business with other lenders and have done so in the past and will do so in the future. Our competitors also have relationships with some of our brokers and actively compete with us in bidding on loans shopped by these brokers. We also cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain or develop new relationships with additional brokers. Our board of trustees may change our policies without shareholder consent. Our board of trustees reviews our policies developed by management and, in particular, our investment policies. Our board of trustees may amend our policies or approve transactions that deviate from these policies without a vote of or notice to our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market price of our shares and our ability to make distributions. Our board of trustees cannot take any action to disqualify us as a REIT or to otherwise revoke our election to be taxed as a REIT without the approval of a majority of our outstanding voting shares. 9 Our organizational documents do not limit our ability to enter into new lines of business, and we may enter into new businesses, make future strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. Our organizational documents do not limit us to our current business lines. Accordingly, we may pursue growth through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures, which may include entering into new lines of business. In addition, we expect opportunities will arise to acquire other companies, including REITs, managers of investment products or originators of real estate debt. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, enter into joint ventures, or enter into a new line of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with: · the required investment of capital and other resources, · the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk, · combining or integrating operational and management systems and controls; and · compliance with applicable regulatory requirements including those required under the Internal Revenue Code and the Investment Company Act. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. If a new business generates insufficient revenue or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputation damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. We operate in a highly competitive market which may harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Historically, we have been subject to significant competition in all of our business lines. We compete with many third parties engaged in finance and real estate investment activities, including other REITs, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms and broker-dealers, property managers, investment advisers, lenders, governmental bodies and other entities. Some of these competitors have, or in the future may have, substantially greater financial resources than we do and generally may be able to accept more risk. As such, they have the ability to make larger loans and to reduce the risk of loss from any one loan by having a more diversified loan portfolio. They may also enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of, and greater access to, capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. An increase in the general availability of funds to lenders, or a decrease in the amount of borrowing activity, may increase competition for making loans and may reduce obtainable yields or increase the credit risk inherent in the available loans. Competition may limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us. It may also result in higher prices, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs, making it more difficult for us to acquire new investments on attractive terms and reducing the fee income we realize from the origination, structuring and management of securitizations. It may also make it more difficult to obtain appreciation interests and increase the price, and thus reduce potential yields, on discounted loans we acquire. We face significant competition in our investments in real estate from other owners, operators and developers of properties, many of which own properties similar to ours in markets where we operate. Such competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and reduce the rents we are able to charge. These competing properties may have vacancy rates higher than our properties, which may result in their owners being willing to rent space at lower rental rates than we would or providing greater tenant improvement allowances or other leasing concessions. This combination of circumstances could adversely affect our revenues and financial performance. We engage in transactions with related parties and our policies and procedures regarding these transactions may be insufficient to address any conflicts of interest that may arise. Under our code of business conduct, we have established procedures regarding the review, approval and ratification of transactions which may give rise to a conflict of interest between us and any employee, officer, trustee, their immediate family members, other businesses under their control and other related persons. In the ordinary course of our business operations, we have ongoing relationships and have engaged in transactions with several related entities. These procedures do not guarantee that all potential conflicts will be identified, reviewed or sufficiently addressed. 10 Our transactions with, and investments in, some securitization vehicles may create perceived or actual conflicts of interest. We have engaged in transactions with, and invested in, certain of the securitization vehicles under which we also serve as collateral manager, servicer and/or special servicer, and may do so in the future. These transactions have included, and may include in the future, surrendering for cancellation notes we hold issued by these vehicles and exchanges of our or others’ securities with these vehicles for assets collateralizing these vehicles. In addition, we have previously, and may in the future, purchase investments in these vehicles that are senior or junior to, or have rights and interests different from or adverse to, other investors or credit support providers in the debt or other securities of such securitization vehicles. Such situations may create perceived or actual conflicts of interest between us and such other investors or credit support providers for such investors. Our interests in such transactions and investments may conflict with the interests of such other investors or credit support providers at the time of origination or in the event of a default or restructuring of a securitization vehicle or underlying assets. Furthermore, if we are involved in structuring the securitization vehicles or such securitization vehicles are structured as our subsidiaries, then our managers may have conflicts between us and other entities managed by them that purchase debt or other securities in such securitization vehicles with regard to setting subordination levels, determining interest rates, pricing the securities, providing for divesting or deferring distributions that would otherwise be made to equity interests, or otherwise setting the amounts and priorities of distributions to the holders of debt and equity interests in the securitization vehicles. Although we seek to make decisions with respect to our securitization vehicles in a manner that we believe is fair and consistent with the operative legal documents governing these vehicles, perceived or actual conflicts may create dissatisfaction among the other investors in such vehicles or litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and our reputation could be damaged if we fail to deal appropriately with one or more perceived or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, such conflicts of interest could materially adversely affect our ability to manage or generate income or cash flow from our securitizations business, cause harm to our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract investors for future vehicles. The organization and management of IRT may create conflicts of interest. Our subsidiary serves as the external advisor of IRT. IRT currently holds, or may hold in the future, assets that we determine should be acquired by it and doing so may create conflicts of interest, including between investors in IRT and our shareholders, since many investment opportunities that are suitable for us may also be suitable for IRT. Additionally, our management and other real estate and debt finance professionals may face conflicts of interest in allocating their time among RAIT and IRT. Although as a company we will seek to make these decisions in a manner that we believe is fair and consistent with the operative legal documents governing us and IRT, including our investment allocation policy, the transfer or allocation of these assets may give rise to investor dissatisfaction or litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest would have a material adverse effect on our reputation which would materially adversely affect our ability to manage or generate income or cash flow from IRT. Quarterly results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore, you should not rely on past quarterly results to be indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among others, variations in our investment origination volume, variations in the timing of repayments of debt financing, variations in the amount of time between our receipt of the proceeds of a securities offering and our investment of those proceeds in loans or real estate, market conditions that result in increased cost of funds or material fluctuations in the fair value of our assets and liabilities, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, general economic conditions and other factors referred to elsewhere in this section. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the real estate industry generally and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the severity of the effect that potential future terrorist attacks could have on us. Any future terrorist attacks, the anticipation of any such attacks, the consequences of any military or other response by the United States and its allies, and other armed conflicts could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. We may suffer losses as a result of the adverse impact of any future attacks and these losses may adversely impact our performance. A prolonged economic slowdown, a recession or declining real estate values could impair the performance of our assets and harm our financial condition and results of operations, increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. The economic impact of such events could 11 also adversely affect the credit quality of some of our loans and investments and the property underlying our securities. Losses resulting from these types of events may not be fully insurable. The events of September 11, 2001 created significant uncertainty regarding the ability of real estate owners of high profile assets to obtain insurance coverage protecting against terrorist attacks at commercially reasonable rates, if at all. With the enactment of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (the “TRIA”) and subsequent extensions, including the enactment of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015, which extends TRIA through December 31, 2020, insurers must make terrorism insurance available under their property and casualty insurance policies, but this legislation does not regulate the pricing of such insurance. The absence of affordable insurance coverage may adversely affect the general real estate lending market, lending volume and the market’s overall liquidity and may reduce the number of suitable opportunities available to us and the pace at which we are able to acquire assets. If the properties underlying our interests are unable to obtain affordable insurance coverage, the value of our interests could decline, and in the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose all or a portion of our assets. We are subject to risks of loss from weather conditions, man-made or natural disasters and climate change. Weather conditions and man-made or natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, droughts, fires and other environmental conditions can damage properties we own or that collateralize our loans. Additionally, the value of such properties will potentially be subject to the risks associated with long-term effects of climate change. Future weather conditions, man-made or natural disasters or effects of climate change could adversely impact the demand for, and value of, our assets and could also directly impact the value of our assets through damage, destruction or loss, and could thereafter materially impact the availability or cost of insurance to protect against these events. Although we believe our owned real estate and the properties collateralizing our loan assets are adequately covered by insurance, we cannot predict at this time if we or our borrowers will be able to obtain appropriate coverage at a reasonable cost in the future, or if we will be able to continue to pass along all of the costs of insurance to our tenants. Any weather conditions, man-made or natural disasters or effect of climate change, whether or not insured, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market price of our common shares and our ability to pay dividends. In addition, there is a risk that one or more of our property insurers may not be able to fulfill their obligations with respect to claims payments due to a deterioration in its financial condition. Cybersecurity threats or other security breaches could compromise sensitive information belonging to us or our employees, borrowers, lessees, clients and other counterparties and could harm our business and our reputation. We store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our borrowers, lessees, clients and other counterparties, and confidential employee information, in our data centers and on our networks. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions that could result in unauthorized disclosure or loss of sensitive information. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to networks, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Furthermore, in the operation of our business we also use third-party vendors that store certain sensitive data, including confidential information about our employees, and these third parties are subject to their own cybersecurity threats. Any security breach of our own or a third-party vendor’s systems could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws or regulations, subject us to legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business. Risks related to our asset management business We receive collateral management fees pursuant to collateral management agreements for services we provide as the collateral manager of RAIT I and RAIT II. If a collateral management agreement is terminated or if the securities serving as collateral for a securitization are prepaid or go into default, the collateral management fees will be reduced or eliminated. We receive collateral management fees pursuant to collateral management agreements for acting as the collateral manager of RAIT I and RAIT II. If all the notes issued by one of those securitizations are redeemed, or if the collateral management agreement is otherwise terminated, we will no longer receive collateral management fees from that securitization. In general, a collateral management agreement may be terminated both with and without cause at the direction of holders of a specified supermajority in principal amount of the notes issued by the securitization. Furthermore, such fees are based on the total amount of collateral held by the securitizations. If the assets serving as collateral for a securitization are prepaid or go into default, we will receive lower collateral management fees than expected or the collateral management fees may be eliminated. In addition, collateral management agreements typically provide that if certain over-collateralization tests are failed, the collateral management agreement may be terminated by a vote of the security holders resulting in our loss of management fees from these securitizations. 12 If any of our securitizations fail to meet over-collateralization tests relevant to the securitization’s most senior existing debt, an event of default may occur. Upon an event of default, our ability to manage the securitization may be terminated and our ability to attempt to cure any defaults in the securitization would be limited, which would increase the likelihood of a reduction or elimination of cash flow and returns to us in those securitizations for an indefinite time. We expect repayments of loans collateralizing RAIT I and RAIT II outside their contractual maturities to increase in 2016 through 2019 which we expect will reduce our returns from these securitizations. We expect repayment of the loans collateralizing RAIT I and RAIT II outside their contractual maturities to increase in 2016 through 2019. We expect this will reduce our returns from these securitizations and we will evaluate alternative strategies seeking to replace these returns. If we are unable to replace these returns, our financial performance may be adversely affected. We expect to undertake similar analysis for any securitization we sponsor as the notes issued by such securitization approach their respective weighted average lives. We receive servicing and special servicing fees pursuant to servicing agreements with the consolidated securitizations we sponsor collateralized primarily by bridge loans, or the FL securitizations, for services we provide as the servicer and special servicer and expect to enter into similar agreements in the future with respect to future similar securitizations . If these or any similar servicing agreements are terminated, if the loans serving as collateral for a securitization are prepaid or go into default or if the notes issued by these securitizations are repaid or redeemed, the servicing fees will be reduced or eliminated. We receive servicing fees pursuant to servicing agreements for acting as the servicer and special servicer of each of the FL securitizations. If all the notes issued by any of the FL securitizations are repaid or redeemed, or if a servicing agreement is otherwise terminated, we will no longer receive servicing fees from the affected FL securitization. In general, these servicing agreements may be terminated upon the occurrence of a termination event, which includes our failure to remit required payments, make required advances, material breaches of covenants or representations, defined bankruptcy and insolvency events and a ratings downgrade citing servicing concerns as a material factor. Furthermore, the fees payable by each securitization are based on the total amount of collateral held by the securitization. If the assets serving as collateral for a securitization are prepaid or go into default, we will receive lower servicing fees than expected or the servicing fees may be eliminated. We may enter into additional similar servicing agreements in the future in connection with future securitizations. We receive advisory fees pursuant to an advisory agreement, or the IRT advisory agreement, with IRT for advisory services we provide as the external advisor of IRT. If this advisory agreement is terminated, the advisory fees will be reduced or eliminated. The IRT advisory agreement provides that IRT may terminate the IRT advisory agreement for cause only upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of IRT’s independent directors or a majority of IRT’s outstanding common stock or a change of control of RAIT or IRT’s advisor (each as defined in the IRT advisory agreement) if a majority of IRT’s independent directors determine that such a change of control of RAIT or IRT’s advisor is materially detrimental to IRT. If IRT terminates the agreement without cause, or if IRT’s advisor terminates the agreement because of a material breach of the agreement by IRT or as a result of a change of control of IRT, IRT must pay IRT’s advisor a termination fee. If the IRT advisory agreement is terminated, the advisory fees will be reduced or eliminated, even if such termination results in the payment of a termination fee. If we lose our rating as a commercial mortgage loan primary servicer and special servicer by Standard & Poor’s and by Morningstar, our fee income might be reduced. We are rated as a commercial mortgage loan primary servicer and special servicer by Standard & Poor’s and by Morningstar. If we were to lose either of these ratings, we might need to incur additional expenses in order to regain our rating or obtain comparable credentials from other persons to continue to provide servicing services generating fee income under our arrangements with securitizations or enter into sub-servicing or other arrangements with third parties in order to continue to earn such fees. Such expenses or arrangements might reduce our fee income. Risks relating to financial reporting requirements and fair value determinations If we deconsolidate any of RAIT I, RAIT II, the FL securitizations or IRT, it may have a material effect on our financial statements. Our consolidated financial statements reflect our accounts and the accounts of our subsidiaries and other entities in which we have a controlling financial interest. If we were to determine that our interests in any of these entities no longer made us have a controlling financial interest, our determination to consolidate such entities would change. If we deconsolidate any of these entities for these or any other reasons, the assets, liabilities, equity and income in our financial statements may be reduced significantly. 13 If we fail to maintain an effective system of integrated internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results and may be required to incur substantial costs and divert management resources. We depend on our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements in order to run our business. If we fail to do so, our business could be negatively affected and our independent registered public accounting firm may be unable to attest to the accuracy of our financial statements. A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent, or detect and correct, misstatements on a timely basis. A significant deficiency is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of a registrant’s financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity’s financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected, on a timely basis. We previously determined that a material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting existed as of December 31, 2014 and had remediated it as of December 31, 2015. A description of this material weakness and remediation is provided in Part II, Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although we continuously monitor the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, there can be no assurance that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses will not occur in the future. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures in the future, it could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements that may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis, which could cause stakeholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Our inability to remedy any additional deficiencies or material weaknesses that may be identified in the future could, among other things, cause us to fail to file timely our periodic reports with the SEC (which may limit our ability to access the capital markets); prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial information and forecasts or from avoiding or detecting fraud; or require us to incur additional costs or divert management resources to achieve compliance Our financial statements may be materially impacted if our estimates, including loan loss reserves, prove to be inaccurate. Financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, require the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts. Different estimates, judgments and assumptions reasonably could be used that would have a material effect on the financial statements, and changes in these estimates, judgments and assumptions are likely to occur from period to period in the future. Significant areas of accounting requiring the application of management’s judgment include, but are not limited to: (i) assessing the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses; (ii) determining the fair value of financial instruments; (iii) assessing other than temporary impairments on securities; and (iv) assessing impairments on real estate held for use or held for sale. As these estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently uncertain, especially in turbulent economic times, our actual financial results may differ from these estimates. Accounting standards for certain of our transactions are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our consolidated financial statements. Accounting standards for transfers of financial assets, securitization transactions, consolidation of variable interest entities, or VIEs, convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash and other aspects of our anticipated operations are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. These complexities could lead to a delay in preparation of financial information and the delivery of this information to our shareholders. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our consolidated financial statements, result in a need to restate our financial results and affect our ability to timely prepare our consolidated financial statements. Our inability to timely prepare our consolidated financial statements in the future would likely adversely affect the trading prices of our common shares or other securities significantly. A portion of our assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value using unobservable inputs and, as a result, there may be uncertainty as to the value of these investments. We reflect certain derivative instruments and other assets and liabilities at fair value in our balance sheet, with all changes in fair value recorded in earnings. Most of these investments are securities or other assets that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. For further discussion of the fair value of our financial instruments, see Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Fair Value of Financial Investments.” We value these investments quarterly at fair value. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and are based on assumptions and estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these investments existed. If our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments are not realized, we could record a loss upon their disposal. 14 When we acquire properties through the foreclosure of commercial real estate loans, we may realize losses if the fair value of the property internally determined upon such acquisition is less than the previous recorded investment of the foreclosed loan. We periodically acquire properties through the foreclosure of commercial real estate loans. Upon acquisition, we value the property and its related assets and liabilities. We determine the fair values based primarily upon discounted cash flow or capitalization rate models, the use of which requires critical assumptions including discount rates, capitalization rates, vacancy rates and growth rates based, in part, on the properties’ operating history and third party data. We may realize losses if the fair value of the property internally determined upon acquisition is less than the previous carrying amount of the foreclosed loan. Interest rate changes may reduce the value of our investments and reduce our interest income. Changes in interest rates affect the market value of our investment portfolio. In general, the market value of a loan will change in inverse relation to an interest rate change where a loan has a fixed interest rate or only limited interest rate adjustments. Accordingly, in a period of rising interest rates, the market value of such a loan will decrease. Moreover, in a period of declining interest rates, real estate loans with rates that are fixed or variable only to a limited extent may have less value than other income-producing securities due to possible prepayments. Interest rate changes will also affect the return we obtain on new loans. In particular, during a period of declining rates, our reinvestment of loan repayments may be at lower rates than we obtained in prior investments or on the repaid loans. Also, increases in interest rates on debt we incur may not be reflected in increased rates of return on the investments funded through such debt, which would reduce our return on those investments. Accordingly, interest rate changes may materially affect the total return on our investment portfolio, which in turn will affect the amount available for distribution to shareholders. The value of our investments depends on conditions beyond our control. Our investments include loans secured directly or indirectly by real estate, interests in entities whose principal or sole assets are real estate or direct ownership of real estate. As a result, the value of these investments depends primarily upon the value of the real estate underlying these investments which is affected by numerous factors beyond our control including general and local economic conditions, neighborhood values, competitive overbuilding, weather, casualty losses, occupancy rates and other factors beyond our control. The value of this underlying real estate may also be affected by factors such as the costs of compliance with use, occupancy and similar regulations, potential or actual liabilities under applicable environmental laws, changes in interest rates and the availability of financing. Income from a property will be reduced if a significant number of tenants are unable to pay rent or if available space cannot be rented on favorable terms. Operating and other expenses of this underlying real estate, particularly significant expenses such as mortgage payments, insurance, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally do not decrease when income decreases and, even if revenue increases, operating and other expenses may increase faster than revenues. Any investment may also be affected by a borrower’s failure to comply with the terms of our investment, its bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or its properties becoming subject to foreclosure proceedings, all of which may require us to become involved in expensive and time-consuming litigation. Some of our investments defer some portion of our return to loan maturity or the mandatory redemption date. The borrower’s ability to satisfy these deferred obligations may depend upon its ability to obtain suitable refinancing or to otherwise raise a substantial amount of cash. These risks may be subject to the same considerations we describe in this “Risks relating to our commercial real estate, or CRE, real estate lending business” section. Risks related to our financing strategy We rely on outside sources of capital to maintain our liquidity and any restrictions on our ability to access these sources would materially adversely affect our financial performance. We require significant outside capital to fund and grow our businesses. A primary source of liquidity for us has been the equity and debt capital markets, including sales of loans to securitizations, repurchase agreements, issuances of common equity, preferred equity and convertible senior notes. Our origination and sales of conduit loans currently depends on our ability to access short term financing through repurchase agreements followed by sales to unaffiliated third party sponsored CMBS securitizations. Our origination of bridge loans currently depends on our ability to access short term financing through repurchase agreements followed by our ability to use these loans to collateralize securitizations we sponsor and have these securitizations issue debt to unaffiliated investors. If these financing sources were no longer available for these types of assets, our ability to originate these assets and our returns from these assets might be limited or gone. In general, our financial performance would be materially adversely affected if our access to liquidity were restricted, whether by economic conditions or capital market developments affecting commercial real estate or our historical sources of financing or for any other reason. If we fail to secure financing on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, our income may be reduced since our ability to originate loans, acquire properties and make other investments would be limited or eliminated. We depend on our portfolio of investments to generate CAD and any significant restriction on our liquidity could impair 15 our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. For information about our available sources of funds, refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the notes to the consolidated financial statements located in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business is highly leveraged, which could lead to greater losses than if we were not as leveraged. We do and, in the future, intend to use financial leverage in executing our business plan. Such borrowings may take the form of “financing facilities” such as bank credit facilities, credit facilities from government agencies, repurchase agreements and warehouse lines of credit, which are secured revolving lines of credit that we utilize to warehouse portfolios or real estate instruments until we exit them through securitization. We do and, in the future, intend to enter into securitization and other long-term financing transactions to use the proceeds from such transactions to reduce the outstanding balances under these financing facilities. However, such agreements may include a recourse component. Further, any financing facilities that we currently have or may use in the future to finance our assets may require us to provide additional collateral or pay down debt if the market value of our assets pledged or sold to the provider of the credit facility or the repurchase agreement counterparty decline in value. In addition, our borrowings are generally based on floating interest rates, the fluctuation of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our use of leverage in a market that moves adversely to our business interests could result in a substantial loss to us, which would be greater than if we were not leveraged. There can be no assurance that we will be able to utilize financing arrangements in the future on favorable terms, or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain, maintain or renew our financing facilities on terms favorable to us or at all. Furthermore, any financing facility that we enter into will be subject to conditions and restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which may inhibit our ability to grow our business and increase revenues. To the extent we breach a covenant or cannot satisfy a condition, such facility may not be available to us, or may be required to be repaid in full or in part, which could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. Further, such borrowings may limit the length of time during which any given asset may be used as eligible collateral. Additionally, if we are unable to securitize our loans to replenish a warehouse line of credit, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or otherwise to liquidate our assets. Furthermore, some of our warehouse lines of credit contain cross-default provisions. If a default occurs under one of these warehouse lines of credit and the lenders terminate one or more of these agreements, we may need to enter into replacement agreements with different lenders. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering into such replacement agreements on the same terms as the terminated warehouse line of credit. We, or securitizations we sponsor, may issue more unsecured corporate bonds in the future depending on the financing requirements of our business and market conditions. Our failure to maintain the credit ratings on the debt securities so issued could negatively affect our ability to access capital and could increase our interest expense. The credit rating agencies may periodically review our, or such securitizations, capital structure and the quality and stability of the relevant cash flows. Deterioration in such capital structure or the quality and stability of such cash flows could result in a downgrade of the credit ratings on such debt securities. Any negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to us and could limit our access to funding for our operations. We depend upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes constrained, our interest costs could increase, which could have material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our reliance on debt to finance investments may require us to make balloon payments upon maturity, upon the exercise of any applicable put rights or otherwise, and an increased risk of loss may reduce our return on investments, reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders and possibly result in the foreclosure of any assets subject to secured financing. We have historically incurred debt to finance our investments, which could compound losses and reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Our debt service payments could reduce the net income available for distributions to our shareholders and reduce our liquidity available to make distributions to our shareholders each calendar year that are required for REIT qualification. Most of our assets are pledged as collateral for borrowings. In addition, the assets of the securitizations that we consolidate collateralize the debt obligations of the securitizations and are not available to satisfy our other creditors. To the extent that we fail to meet debt service obligations, we risk the loss of some or all of our respective assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy these debt obligations. Currently, our declaration of trust and bylaws do not impose any limitations on the extent to which we may leverage our respective assets. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flows will be insufficient to meet required principal and interest payments and the risk that we will be unable to refinance our indebtedness when it becomes due, or that the terms of such refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our indebtedness. Included in our debt instruments are 16 provisions providing for the lump sum payment of significant amounts of principal, whether upon maturity, upon the exercise of any applicable put rights or otherwise, which we refer to as balloon payments. Most of our debt provides for balloon payments that are payable at maturity. If collateral underlying any secured credit facility we are party to defaults or otherwise fails to meet specified conditions, we may have to repay that facility to the extent it was secured by that collateral. Our ability to make these payments when due will depend upon several factors, which may not be in our control. These factors include our liquidity or our ability to convert assets owned by us into liquidity on or prior to such put or maturity dates and the amount by which we have been able to reduce indebtedness prior to such put or maturity date though exchanges, refinancing, extensions, collateralization or other similar transactions (any of which transactions may also have the effect of reducing liquidity or liquid assets). Our ability to accomplish these goals will be affected by various factors existing at the relevant time, such as the state of the national and regional economies, local real estate conditions, available interest rate levels, the lease terms for and equity in any related collateral, our financial condition and the operating history of the collateral. If we are unable to pay, redeem, restructure, refinance, extend or otherwise enter into transactions to satisfy any of our debt, this could result in defaults under, and acceleration of, our debt and we may be required to sell assets in significant amounts and at times when market conditions are not favorable, which could result in our incurring significant losses. Holders of our outstanding convertible senior notes have the right to require us to repurchase all or part of their notes on specified dates and under specified conditions and any such repurchases will reduce our liquidity and may require us to generate additional liquidity which may be less favorable to us than the terms of the convertible senior notes repurchased and so adversely affect our financial performance. Holders of our 7.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2031, or the 7.0% notes, have the right to require us to repurchase for cash all or part of their notes on each of April 1, 2016, April 1, 2021 and April 1, 2026 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the relevant repurchase date. In addition, holders of our 4.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2033, or the 4.0% notes, have the right to require us to repurchase for cash all or part of their notes on each of October 1, 2018, October 1, 2023 and October 1, 2028 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the relevant repurchase date. In addition, if we undergo a defined fundamental change, holders of the 7.0% notes and the 4.0% notes may require us to repurchase for cash all or part of their notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date. Any such repurchases will reduce our liquidity and may require us to generate additional liquidity which may be less favorable to us than the terms of the convertible senior notes repurchased and so adversely affect our financial performance. Our issuance of Series D preferred shares with redemption rights and warrants and share appreciation rights with put rights may increase our risk of loss if we need to satisfy these redemption rights and put rights. We have issued our Series D preferred shares of beneficial interest which provide a holder with redemption rights in defined circumstances and warrants and share appreciation rights which have put rights in defined circumstances. While these Series D preferred shares and such warrants and share appreciation rights provide that any exercise of such redemption and put rights may be satisfied by RAIT issuing a note, the exercise of these redemption and put rights may adversely affect our liquidity and reduce amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. Events which have occurred or may occur in the future may come within the circumstances giving rise to such redemption and put rights. In addition, RAIT must redeem the Series D preferred shares with up to $50.0 million of net proceeds received from the loans and other investments made with the proceeds of the issuance of the Series D preferred shares. This redemption occurs from and after October 2017 in the case of net proceeds the sale or payoff of investments other than CMBS loans and October 2019 in the case of net proceeds from CMBS loans, in each case, at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. The net proceeds used in these redemptions may not be sufficient to redeem the Series D preferred shares or may otherwise adversely affect our liquidity and reduce amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. The securities purchase agreement related to the Series D preferred shares restricts our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The securities purchase agreement pursuant to which the Series D preferred shares were issued includes an agreement by RAIT not to declare any extraordinary dividend except as otherwise required for RAIT to continue to satisfy the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT. An extraordinary dividend is defined as any dividend or other distribution (a) on common shares other than regular quarterly dividends on the common shares or (b) on the preferred shares other than in respect of dividends accrued in accordance with the terms expressly applicable to the preferred shares. 17 We may seek to acquire, redeem, restructure, refinance or otherwise enter into transactions to satisfy our debt which may include any combination of material payments of cash, issuances of our debt and/or equity securities, sales or exchanges of our assets or other methods. From time to time our collateralized debt obligation, or CDO, notes payable, convertible senior notes, senior notes and our other indebtedness may trade at discounts to their respective face amounts. In order to reduce future cash interest payments, as well as future principal amounts due upon any applicable put dates, at maturity or upon redemption, or to otherwise benefit RAIT, we may, from time to time, purchase such CDO notes payable, convertible senior notes, senior notes or other indebtedness for cash, in exchange for our equity or debt securities, or for any combination of cash and our equity or debt securities, in each case in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, exchange offers and consent solicitations or otherwise. We will evaluate any such transactions in light of then-existing market conditions, contractual restrictions and other factors, taking into account our current liquidity and prospects for future access to capital. The amounts involved in any such transactions, individually or in the aggregate, may be material and may materially reduce our liquidity or reduce or eliminate our ability to convert assets into liquidity. Any material issuances of our equity securities may have a material dilutive effect on our current shareholders. Our financing arrangements contain covenants that restrict our operations, and any default under these arrangements would inhibit our ability to grow our business, increase revenue and pay distributions to our shareholders. Our financing arrangements contain restrictions, covenants and events of default. Failure to meet or satisfy any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. These agreements may contain cross- default provisions so that an event of default under one agreement will trigger an event of default under other agreements. Defaults generally give our lenders the right to declare all amounts outstanding under their particular credit agreement to be immediately due and payable, and enforce their rights by foreclosing on or otherwise liquidating collateral pledged under these agreements. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or to engage in other business activities. Furthermore, our default under any of our financing arrangements could materially reduce our liquidity and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. A decline in the market value of the assets we finance pursuant to repurchase agreements or warehouse facilities may result in margin calls that may force us to sell assets under adverse market conditions. Our current repurchase agreements allow, and we expect any warehouse facilities and repurchase agreements we enter into in the future to allow, our lender to make margin calls that would require us to make cash payments or deliver additional assets to our lender in the event that there is a decline in the market value of the assets that collateralize our repurchase agreements or debt under our warehouse facilities. As a result, a decline in the market value of assets collateralizing any such debt may result in our lenders initiating margin calls and requiring a pledge of additional collateral or cash. Posting additional collateral or cash to support our borrowings would reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets, which could adversely affect our business. As a result, we could be forced to sell some of our assets in order to maintain liquidity. Forced sales typically result in lower sales prices than do market sales made in the normal course of business. If our investments were liquidated at prices below the amortized cost basis of such investments, we would incur losses, which could result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition. We are exposed to loss if lenders under our repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities or other short-term debt liquidate the portfolio assets collateralizing or otherwise providing credit support for such debt. Moreover, assets financed by us pursuant to our repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities or other short-term debt may not be suitable for refinancing through, or sales to, future securitization transactions, which may require us to seek more costly financing for these assets, to liquidate assets or to repurchase these assets . We have entered into repurchase agreements, and may in the future enter into other repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities or other short term debt with similar terms. Our lenders have the right under our current repurchase agreements, and may have the right under such other debt, to liquidate assets acquired thereunder upon the occurrence of certain events, such as an event of default. We are exposed to loss if the proceeds received by the lender upon any such liquidation are insufficient to satisfy our obligation to the lender. We are also subject to the risk that the assets subject to such repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities or other debt with similar terms might not be suitable for refinancing through, or sales to, future securitization transactions. If we were unable to refinance these assets through, or sell these assets to, future securitization transactions, we might be required to seek more costly financing for these assets, to liquidate assets or to repurchase assets under time constraints that may not produce the optimal return to us. Our use of repurchase and warehouse facilities and other financing arrangements is subject to the pre- approval of the lender, which we may be unable to obtain. 18 In order to borrow funds under a repurchase or warehouse agreement or other financing arrangement, the lender has the right to review the potential assets for which we are seeking financing and approve such asset in its sole discretion. Accordingly, we may be unable to obtain the consent of a lender to finance an investment and alternate sources of financing for such asset may not exist. Our use of repurchase agreements to finance our securities and/or loans may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or a lender files for bankruptcy, including the right to repudiate our repurchase agreements, which could limit or delay our claims. In the event of our insolvency or bankruptcy, certain repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the effect of which, among other things, would be to allow the lender under the applicable repurchase agreement to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and to foreclose on the collateral agreement without delay. In the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a lender during the term of a repurchase agreement, the lender may be permitted under applicable insolvency laws to repudiate the contract, and our claim against the lender for damages may be treated simply as an unsecured claim. In addition, if the lender is a broker or dealer subject to the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, or an insured depository institution subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, our ability to exercise our rights to recover our collateral under a repurchase agreement or to be compensated for any damages resulting from the lender’s insolvency may be further limited by those statutes. These claims would be subject to significant delay and, if and when received, may be substantially less than the damages we actually incur. Therefore, our use of repurchase agreements to finance our portfolio assets exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either a lender or ourselves. If a counterparty to our repurchase transactions defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security and/or loans to us at the end of the transaction term, or if the value of the underlying security and/or loans has declined as of the end of that term, or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement, we will lose money on our repurchase transactions. When we engage in repurchase transactions, we generally sell securities and/or loans to lenders (i.e., repurchase agreement counterparties) in return for cash from the lenders. The lenders then are obligated to resell the same securities and/or loans to us at the end of the term of the transaction. In a repurchase agreement, the cash we receive from a lender when we initially sell the securities and/or loans to such lender is less than the value of the securities and/or loans sold. If the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same securities and/or loans to us under the terms of a repurchase agreement, we will incur a loss on the transaction equal to the difference between the value of the securities and/or loans sold and the cash we received from the lender (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities and/or loans). We also would lose money on a repurchase transaction if the value of the underlying securities and/or loans has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as we would have to repurchase the securities and/or loans for their initial value but would receive securities and/or loans worth less than that amount. Further, if we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the lender will be able to terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. Our repurchase agreements generally contain cross-default provisions, so that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements also could declare a default. If a default occurs under any of our repurchase agreements and the lenders terminate one or more of their repurchase agreements, we may need to enter into replacement repurchase agreements with different lenders. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering into such replacement repurchase agreements on the same terms as the repurchase agreements that were terminated or at all. Any losses that we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings. We may be subject to repurchases of loans or indemnification on loans and real estate that we have sold if certain representations or warranties in those sales are breached. If loans that we sell or securitize do not comply with representations and warranties that we make about the loans, the borrowers, or the underlying properties, we may be required to repurchase such loans (including from a trust vehicle used to facilitate a structured financing of the assets through a securitization) or replace them with substitute loans. Additionally, in the case of loans and real estate that we have sold, we may be required to indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased loans typically will require a significant allocation of working capital to be carried on our books, and our ability to borrow against such assets may be limited or unavailable. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could adversely affect our business. Representations and warranties made by us in connection with loan sales to securitization vehicles may subject us to liability that could result in loan losses and could harm our operating results and, therefore distributions we make to our shareholders. In connection with loan sales to securitization vehicles, we are required to make representations and warranties regarding, among other things, the borrowers, guarantors, collateral, originators and servicers of the loans sold to the depositor of such assets into securitization trusts. In the event of a breach of such representations or warranties, we may be required to repurchase the affected loans at their face value or otherwise make payments to the owner of the loan. While we may have recourse to loan originators (if not us), borrowers, guarantors and/or other third parties whose representations, warranties, certifications, reports and/or other statements 19 or work product we relied upon in making our representations and warranties, there can be no guaranty that such parties will be able to fully or partially cover any liability we may have in such circumstances. Furthermore, if we discover, prior to the securitization of an asset, that there is any fraud or misrepresentation with respect to the origination of such asset by a third party and are unable to force that third party to repurchase the loan, then we may not be able to sell the loan to a securitization or we may have to sell it at a discount. In any such case, we may incur losses and our cash flows may be impaired. Our participation in the market for nonrecourse long-term securitizations may expose us to risks that could result in losses. Following the dislocation of credit markets that commenced in 2007, the market for nonrecourse long-term securitizations has resumed and we have generally participated in that market by contributing loans to securitizations led by various large financial institutions and by leading securitizations on mortgage loans we originated and participation interests therein. We may, in the future, take a larger role in leading securitizations of mortgage loans. To date, when we have acted as a mortgage loan seller into, and as an issuer, sponsor and/or depositor of, securitizations, we have been obligated to assume substantially similar liabilities as were required of a mortgage loan seller prior to the credit market dislocation, including with respect to representations and warranties required to be made for the benefit of investors. In particular, in connection with any particular securitization, we: (i) make certain representations and warranties regarding ourselves and the characteristics of, and origination process for, the mortgage loans that we contribute to the securitization; (ii) undertake to cure, or to repurchase or replace any mortgage loan that we contribute to the securitization that is affected by a material breach of any such representation and warranty or a material loan document deficiency; and (iii) assume, either directly or through the indemnification of third-parties, potential securities law liabilities for disclosure to investors regarding ourselves and the mortgage loans that we contribute to the securitization. When we lead securitizations as issuer, we assume, either directly or through indemnification agreements, additional potential securities law liabilities and third-party liabilities beyond the liabilities we would assume when we act only as a mortgage loan seller into a securitization. As a result of the dislocation of the credit markets, the securitization industry has become subject to additional and changing regulation. For example, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, various federal agencies have promulgated, or are in the process of promulgating, regulations and rules with respect to various issues that affect securitizations, including: (i) a recently-adopted rule requiring that sponsors in securitizations retain 5% of the credit risk associated with securities they issue; (ii) requirements for additional disclosure; (iii) requirements for additional review and reporting (including revisions to Regulation AB); and (iv) restrictions designed to prohibit conflicts of interest. The risk retention rule that has been recently adopted (as it relates to CMBS) will take effect in December 2016 and requires retention of at least 5% of the fair value of all securities issued in connection with a securitization for a certain period of time and can be satisfied by (i) retention of a horizontal tranche (i.e., in one or more subordinate classes), (ii) retention of a vertical security or interest in each class of securities issued in connection with the securitization or (iii) a combination of vertical and horizontal strips. The risk (with respect to CMBS) must be retained by the sponsor, certain mortgage loan originators or, upon satisfaction of certain requirements, up to two third-party purchasers of interests in the securitization. Other regulations have been and may ultimately be adopted. The risk retention rules and other rules and regulations that have been adopted or may be adopted will alter the structure of securitizations in the future and could pose additional risks to or reduce or eliminate the economic benefits of our participation in future securitizations. In addition, such rules and regulations could reduce or eliminate the economic benefits of securitization or discourage traditional issuers, underwriters, subordinated security investors or other participants from participating in future securitizations and affect the availability of securitization platforms into which we can contribute mortgage loans, which may require that we take on additional roles and risks in connection with effectuating securitizations of mortgage loans. Prior to any securitization, we generally finance mortgage loans with relatively short-term facilities until a sufficient portfolio is accumulated. We are subject to the risk that we will not be able to originate or acquire sufficient eligible assets to maximize the efficiency of a securitization. We also bear the risk that we might not be able to obtain new short-term facilities or would not be able to renew any short-term facilities after they expire should we need more time to seek and acquire sufficient eligible assets for a securitization. Our inability to refinance any short-term facilities would also increase our risk because borrowings thereunder would likely be recourse to us or one of our subsidiaries. If we are unable to obtain and renew short-term facilities or to consummate securitizations to finance our assets on a long-term basis, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or to liquidate assets at an inopportune time or price. If the interest rates on bonds issued in the market for nonrecourse long-term securitizations that we sell our conduit loans into rise at a disproportionate rate to the interest rates we are able to negotiate on our conduit loans, which we refer to as CMBS spreads widening, the profitability of our conduit loan business may be adversely affected. We have historically originated conduit loans primarily to sell them into the market for nonrecourse long-term securitizations. If CMBS spreads widen, we may not be able to sell conduit loans we have originated if the interest rates on such loans are too low to make them attractive assets for purchase by such securitizations or we may be forced to sell conduit loans at a loss. In addition, our ability to originate conduit loans may be adversely affected to the degree we are unable to negotiate higher interest rates on our conduit loans that would reduce CMBS spread widening. Any alternative means we develop to finance conduit loans may increase 20 financing costs from historical levels. CMBS spreads widened beginning in the last half of 2015 and may continue to do so; as a result, the prices securitizations pay for some of our conduit loans, our ability to originate conduit loans and the profitability of our conduit lending business has decreased and may continue to decrease, which has, and may continue to, adversely affect our performance. Our access to the CMBS securitization market and the timing of our securitization activities and other factors may greatly affect our quarterly financial results. We expect to distribute the conduit loans we originate through securitizations and, upon completion of a securitization, we will recognize certain non-interest revenues which are included in total other income on our consolidated statements of income and cease to earn net interest income on the securitized loans. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability have varied substantially from quarter to quarter based on the frequency, volume and timing of our securitizations. Our securitization activities will be affected by a number of factors, including our loan origination volumes, changes in loan values, quality and performance during the period such loans are on our books and conditions in the securitization and credit markets generally and at the time we seek to launch and complete our securitizations. As a result of these quarterly variations, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not provide an accurate comparison of our current period results of operations. If securities analysts or investors focus on such comparative quarter-to-quarter performance, our stock price performance may be more volatile than if such persons compared a wider period of results of operations. If RAIT I and RAIT II were to fail to meet their performance tests, including over-collateralization requirements, our cash flow would be materially reduced. The terms of RAIT I and RAIT II generally provide that the principal amount of assets must exceed the principal balance of the related securities issued by them by a certain amount, commonly referred to as “over-collateralization.” These terms provide that, if delinquencies and/or losses exceed specified levels based on the analysis by the rating agencies (or any financial guaranty insurer) of the characteristics of the assets collateralizing the securities issued in the securitization, the required level of over-collateralization may be increased or may be prevented from decreasing as would otherwise be permitted if losses or delinquencies did not exceed those levels. In addition, a failure by these securitizations to satisfy an over-collateralization test may result in accelerated distributions to the holders of the senior debt securities issued by them. Our equity holdings, any debt interests and our subordinated management fees, if any, are subordinate in right of payment to the other classes of debt securities issued by the securitization entity. Other tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may restrict our ability to receive cash distributions from assets collateralizing the securities issued by the securitization entity or our ability to effectively manage the assets held in the securitizations. We cannot assure you that any performance test will be satisfied. We currently receive a substantial portion of our cash flow from RAIT I and RAIT II through our retained interests in these securitizations and management fees paid to us for managing these securitizations. If either or both of these securitizations were to fail to meet their respective over-collateralization or other tests, our cash flow would be materially reduced. RAIT I and RAIT II are required to hold auctions of their collateral assets at specified times and under specified conditions and our liquidity, financial performance and our return on the equity we hold in RAIT I and RAIT II may be adversely affected if the proceeds of any auction sales are lower than our valuation of such assets or if we acquire such assets in such auctions on more costly terms than the terms of RAIT I and RAIT II. Under the indentures for the notes, or the CDO notes, issued to unaffiliated investors by RAIT I and RAIT II, if the CDO notes have not been redeemed in full prior to the distribution date occurring in November 2016, in the case of RAIT I, and June 2017, in the case of RAIT II, then an auction of the collateral assets of RAIT I or RAIT II, as relevant, will be conducted by the relevant trustee and, if certain conditions set forth in the relevant indenture are satisfied, such collateral assets will be sold at the auction and the relevant CDO notes will be redeemed, in whole, but not in part, on such distribution date. No redemption of the CDO notes may occur unless proceeds of the auction, together with other defined available redemption funds, are sufficient to pay the defined total senior redemption amount. If such conditions are not satisfied and the auction is not successfully conducted on such distribution date, the relevant trustee will conduct auctions on a monthly basis until the relevant CDO notes are redeemed in full. Our liquidity and financial performance may be adversely affected if the proceeds of any auction sales are lower than our valuation of such assets or if we acquire such assets in such auctions on more costly terms than the terms of RAIT I and RAIT II. In addition, our returns on the preference shares and our other equity we hold in RAIT I and RAIT II may be reduced if auctions are held when no internal rate of return is required to be generated on such preference shares. We refer to the auctions contemplated by such indentures as the auction process. Risks related to our investments 21 We have a concentration of investments in the commercial real estate sector and may have concentrations from time to time in certain property types, locations, tenants and borrowers, which may increase our exposure to the risks of certain economic downturns. We operate in the commercial real estate sector, including ownership of multi-family and other properties. Such concentration in one economic sector may increase the volatility of our returns and may also expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our portfolio also included other sectors of the economy. Declining real estate values may reduce the level of new mortgage and other real estate-related loan originations since borrowers often use appreciation in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase of or investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our loans or refinance our loans if the value of real estate weakens. Further, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our loans in the event of default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to over our cost on the loan. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect both our net interest income from loans in our portfolio as well as our ability to originate/acquire/sell loans, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and business. In addition, we are not required to observe specific diversification criteria relating to property types, locations, tenants or borrowers. A limited degree of diversification increases risk because the aggregate return of our business may be adversely affected by the unfavorable performance of a single property type, single tenant, single market or even a single investment. To the extent that our portfolio is concentrated in any one region or type of asset, downturns relating generally to such region or type of asset may result in defaults on a number of our assets within a short time period. Additionally, borrower concentration, in which a particular borrower is, or a group of related borrowers are, associated with multiple real properties securing mortgage loans or securities held by us, magnifies the risks presented by the possible poor performance of such borrower(s). We may have material geographic concentrations related to our investments in commercial real estate loans and properties. The REITs and real estate operating companies in whose securities we invest in may also have material geographic concentrations related to their investments in real estate, loans secured by real estate or other investments. We also have material concentrations in the property types that comprise our commercial loan portfolio and in the industry sectors that comprise our unsecured securities portfolio. We also may have material concentrations in the sponsors of properties that comprise our commercial loan portfolio. Where we have any kind of concentration risk in our investments, an adverse development in that area of concentration could reduce the value of our investment and our return on that investment and, if the concentration affects a material amount of our investments, impair our ability to execute our investment strategies successfully, reduce our earnings and reduce our ability to make distributions. Our due diligence efforts before making an investment may not identify all the risks related to that investment. Before originating a loan or investment for, or making a loan to or investment in, an entity, we will assess the strength and skills of the entity’s management and other factors that we believe will determine the success of the loan or investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we expect to rely on available resources and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. As a result, there can be no assurance that the due diligence processes we conduct will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. Our investments are relatively illiquid which may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises and any sales may be at a loss to us. Our commercial real estate loans and our investments in real estate are relatively illiquid investments and we may be unable to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions or dispose of these assets quickly or at all in the event we need additional liquidity. A portion of these investments may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises and may impair the value of these investments. Any sales of investments we make may result in our recognizing a loss on the sale. Our investments in securitizations are exposed to greater uncertainty and risk of loss than investments in higher grade securities in these securitizations. When we securitize assets such as commercial mortgage loans and mezzanine loans, the various tranches of investment grade and non-investment grade debt obligations and equity securities have differing priorities and rights to the cash flows of the underlying assets being securitized. We structured our securitization transactions to enable us to place debt and equity securities with investors in the capital markets at various pricing levels based on the credit position created for each tranche of debt and equity securities. The higher rated debt tranches have priority over the lower rated debt securities and the equity securities issued by the particular securitization entity with respect to payments of interest and principal using the cash flows from the collateral assets. The relative cost 22 of capital increases as each tranche of capital becomes further subordinated, as does the associated risk of loss if cash flows from the assets are insufficient to repay fully interest and principal or pay dividends. Since we own in many cases the “BBB,” “BB,” “B” and unrated debt and equity classes of securitizations, we are in a “first loss” position because the rights of the securities that we hold are subordinate in right of payment and in liquidation to the rights of higher rated debt securities issued by the securitization entities. Accordingly, we have incurred and may in the future incur significant losses when investing in these securities. In the event of default, we may not be able to recover any or all of our respective investments in these securities. In addition, we may experience significant losses if the underlying portfolio has been overvalued or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest, principal and dividend payments due on the related securities. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than higher rated investments, but are more sensitive to economic downturns or developments specific to a particular issuer. Current credit market conditions have caused a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors on the underlying assets to make principal, interest and dividend payments may be impaired. In addition, existing credit support in a number of the securitizations in which we have invested have been, and may in the future be, insufficient to protect us against loss of our investments in these securities. Risks relating to our commercial real estate, or CRE, real estate lending business Our reserves for loan losses may prove inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We maintain loan loss reserves to protect against probable, incurred losses and conduct a review of the appropriateness of these reserves on a quarterly basis. Our loan loss reserves reflect management’s then-current estimation of the probability and severity of losses within our portfolio, based on this quarterly review. Our determination of loan loss reserves relies on significant estimates regarding the fair value of loan collateral. The estimation of these fair values is a complex and subjective process. As such, there can be no assurance that management’s judgment will prove to be correct and that reserves will be adequate over time to protect against future losses. Such losses could be caused by factors including, but not limited to, unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific assets, borrowers, industries in which our borrowers operate, markets in which our borrowers or their properties are located or an inability to collect accrued interest receivable on loans which accrue interest at a higher rate than their stated pay rate. If our reserves for loan losses prove inadequate we will suffer additional losses which may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operations. Prepayment rates on mortgage loans cannot be predicted with certainty and prepayments may result in losses to the value of our assets. The frequency at which prepayments (including voluntary prepayments by the borrowers and liquidations due to defaults and foreclosures) occur on our investments can adversely impact our business. Prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty, making it impossible to completely insulate us from prepayment or other such risks. Prepayments of our investments in loans may adversely impact our portfolio because investments may experience outright losses in an environment of faster actual or anticipated prepayments or may underperform relative to hedges that the management team may have constructed for such investments (resulting in a loss to our overall portfolio). Additionally, borrowers are more likely to prepay when the prevailing level of interest rates falls, thereby exposing us to the risk that the prepayment proceeds may be reinvested only at a lower interest rate than that borne by the prepaid obligation. The commercial mortgage loans in which we invest and the commercial mortgage loans underlying the CMBS in which we invest are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us that may result in reduced earnings or losses and reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We hold substantial portfolios of commercial mortgage loans and CMBS which are secured by apartment or other commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure. The ability of a borrower to repay a non-recourse loan secured by an income-producing property typically depends primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things: tenant mix, success of tenant businesses, property management decisions, property location and condition, competition from comparable types of properties, changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged, any need to address environmental contamination at the property, the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, declines in regional or local real estate values, declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. 23 In the event of any default under a commercial mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a commercial mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a commercial mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process, which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. CMBS evidence interests in or are secured by a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. Accordingly, the mortgage-backed securities in which we invest are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. Our subordinated real estate investments such as mezzanine loans and preferred equity interests in entities owning real estate involve increased risk of loss. We invest in mezzanine loans and other forms of subordinated financing, such as investments consisting of preferred equity interests in entities owning real estate. Because of their subordinate position, these subordinated investments carry a greater credit risk than senior lien financing, including a substantially greater risk of non-payment. If a borrower defaults on our subordinated investment or on debt senior to us, our subordinated investment will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid off, which may result in our being unable to recover the full amount, or any, of our investment. A decline in the real estate market could reduce the value of the property so that the aggregate outstanding balances of senior liens may exceed the value of the underlying property. Where debt senior to our investment exists, the presence of inter-creditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through “standstill” periods) and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Bankruptcy and borrower litigation can significantly increase the time needed for us to acquire the underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value. In addition, there are significant costs and delays associated with the foreclosure process. In the event of a default on a senior loan, we may elect to make payments, if we have the right to do so, in order to prevent foreclosure on the senior loans. When we originate or acquire a subordinated investment, we typically do not have the right to service senior loans. The servicers of the senior loans are responsible to the holders of those loans, whose interests will likely not coincide with ours, particularly in the event of a default. Accordingly, the senior loans may not be serviced in a manner advantageous to us. It is also possible that, in some cases, a “due on sale” clause included in a senior mortgage, which accelerates the amount due under the senior mortgage in case of the sale of the property, may apply to the sale of the property if we foreclose, increasing our risk of loss. Our investments in subordinate loans, subordinate participation interests in loans and subordinate CMBS rank junior to other senior debt and we may be unable to recover our investment in these loans. We may originate or acquire subordinate loans (including mezzanine loans), subordinate participation interests in loans and subordinate CMBS. In the event a borrower defaults on a loan and lacks sufficient assets to satisfy our loan, we may suffer a loss of principal or interest. In the event a borrower declares bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower, or the assets of the borrower may not be sufficient to satisfy the loan. In addition, certain of our loans may be subordinate to other debt of the borrower. If a borrower defaults on a loan to us or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. In general, losses on a property securing a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit, if any, then by the holder of a mezzanine loan or B-Note, if any, then by the “first loss” subordinated security holder (generally, the “B-Piece” buyer) and then by the holder of a higher-rated security. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit, mezzanine loans or B-Notes, and any classes of securities junior to those in which we may invest, we may not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchased. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related mortgage-backed securities, the securities in which we may invest may effectively become the “first loss” position behind the more senior securities, which may result in significant losses to us. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments. A projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of mortgage loans underlying the mortgage-backed securities to make principal and interest payments may be impaired. In such event, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal in these securities. 24 We may make equity and preferred equity investments which involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing. We may invest in equity and preferred equity interests in entities owning real estate. Such investments are subordinate to debt financing and are not secured. Should the issuer default on our investment, in most instances we would only be able to proceed against the entity that issued the equity in accordance with the terms of the security, and not any property owned by the entity. Furthermore, in the event of bankruptcy or foreclosure, we would only be able to recoup our capital after any creditors to the entity are paid. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our capital, which could result in losses. The vast majority of the mortgage loans that we originate or purchase, and those underlying the CMBS in which we invest, are nonrecourse loans and the assets securing the loans may not be sufficient to protect us from a partial or complete loss if the borrower defaults on the loan. Except for customary nonrecourse carve-outs for certain actions and environmental liability, most commercial mortgage loans, including those underlying the CMBS in which we invest, are effectively nonrecourse obligations of the sponsor and borrower, meaning that there is no recourse against the assets of the borrower or sponsor other than the underlying collateral. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. Even if a mortgage loan is recourse to the borrower (or if a nonrecourse carve-out to the borrower applies), in most cases, the borrower’s assets are limited primarily to its interest in the related mortgaged property. Further, although a mortgage loan may provide for limited recourse to a principal or affiliate of the related borrower, there is no assurance of any recovery from such principal or affiliate will be made or that such principal’s or affiliate’s assets would be sufficient to pay any otherwise recoverable claim. Certain balance sheet loans may be more illiquid and involve a greater risk of loss than long-term mortgage loans. We originate and acquire balance sheet loans generally having maturities of three years or less, that provide interim financing to borrowers seeking short-term capital for the acquisition or transition (for example, lease up and/or rehabilitation) of commercial real estate. Such a borrower under an interim loan often has identified a transitional asset that has been under-managed and/or is located in a recovering market. If the market in which the asset is located fails to recover according to the borrower’s projections, or if the borrower fails to improve the quality of the asset’s management and/or the value of the asset, the borrower may not receive a sufficient return on the asset to satisfy the interim loan, and we bear the risk that we may not recover some or all of our initial expenditure. In addition, borrowers usually use the proceeds of a long-term mortgage loan to repay an interim loan. We may therefore be dependent on a borrower’s ability to obtain permanent financing to repay our interim loan, which could depend on market conditions and other factors. Further, interim loans may be relatively less liquid than loans against stabilized properties due to their short life, the more limited availability of financing through securitizations than for conduit loans, any unstabilized nature of the underlying real estate and the difficulty of recovery in the event of a borrower’s default. This lack of liquidity may significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our interim loan portfolio and may adversely affect the value of the portfolio. Such “liquidity risk” may be difficult or impossible to hedge against and may also make it difficult to effect a sale of such assets as we may need or desire. As a result, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our interim loan portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which such investments were previously recorded, which may fail to maximize the value of the investments or result in a loss. We are subject to additional risks associated with loan participations because our ability to exercise our rights may be restricted by the terms of the participation. Some of our loans are participation interests or co-lender arrangements in which we share the rights, obligations and benefits of the loan with other lenders. We may need the consent of these parties to exercise our rights under such loans, including rights with respect to amendment of loan documentation, enforcement proceedings in the event of default and the institution of, and control over, foreclosure proceedings. Similarly, a majority of the participants may be able to take actions to which we object but to which we will be bound if our participation interest represents a minority interest. We may be adversely affected by this lack of full control. We may originate or acquire B-Notes, a form of subordinated mortgage loan, and we may be subject to additional risks relating to the negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us. We may originate or acquire B-Notes. A B-Note is a mortgage loan typically (i) secured by a first mortgage on a single commercial property or group of related properties and (ii) subordinated to an A-Note secured by the same first mortgage on the same 25 collateral. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for B-Note owners after payment to the A-Note owners. However, since each transaction is privately negotiated, B-Notes can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of B-Notes to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments and circumstances. Further, B-Notes typically are secured by a single property, and so reflect the increased risks associated with a single property compared to a pool of properties. B-Notes also are less liquid than CMBS, thus we may be unable to dispose of underperforming or non-performing investments. We may not control the special servicing of the mortgage loans or other debt underlying the debt securities in which we invest and, in such cases, the special servicer may take actions that could adversely affect our interest. In circumstances where we do not maintain a first mortgage position, overall control over the special servicing of the mortgage loans or other debt underlying the debt securities in which we invest may be held by a directing certificate holder which is typically appointed by the holders of the most subordinate class of such debt security then outstanding. We ordinarily do not have the right to appoint the directing certificate holder. In connection with the servicing of the specially serviced loans, the related special servicer may, at the direction of the directing certificate holder, take actions that could adversely affect our interest. Risks related to our investments in real estate Reduction in occupancy and rent levels on multifamily properties could adversely affect their value and cash flow. Occupancy and rent levels at a multifamily property may be adversely affected by: · local, regional or national economic conditions, which may limit the amount of rent that can be charged for rental units or result in a reduction in timely rent payments; · construction of additional housing units in the same market; · local military base or industrial/business closings; · in the case of student housing facilities, the financial wellbeing of the college or university to which it relates, competition from on-campus housing units, the physical layout of the housing, and a higher turnover rate than other types of multifamily tenants, which in certain cases is compounded by the fact that student leases are available for periods of less than 12 months; · the tenant mix (such as tenants being predominantly students, military personnel, corporate tenants or employees of a particular business); · developments at local colleges and universities; · national, regional and local politics, including current or future rent stabilization and rent control laws and agreements; · trends in the senior housing market; · the level of mortgage interest rates, which may encourage tenants in multifamily properties to purchase housing; and · a lack of amenities, unattractive physical attributes or bad reputation of the mortgaged property. A significant tenant ceasing to operate at a retail property could adversely affect its value and cash flow. The value of retail properties is significantly affected by the quality of the tenants as well as fundamental aspects of real estate, such as location and market demographics. The correlation between the success of tenant business and a retail property’s value may be more direct with respect to retail properties than other types of commercial property because a component of the total rent paid by certain retail tenants is often tied to a percentage of gross sales. There is no guarantee that any tenant will continue to occupy space in the related retail property. The presence of significant tenants or anchor tenants is an important consideration at a retail property. A retail “anchor tenant” or “shadow-anchor tenant” plays a key role in attracting customers to a retail property and making a retail property a desirable location for other tenants, whether or not it is located on the Mortgaged Property. A significant tenant or anchor tenant ceasing to do business at a retail property could result in realized losses on the mortgage loans. The loss of a significant tenant or anchor tenants may result from the tenant’s voluntary decision not to renew a lease or to terminate it in accordance with its terms, the bankruptcy or economic decline of the tenant, the tenant’s general cessation of business activities or other reasons (including co-tenancy provisions permitting a tenant to terminate a lease prior to its term). Some tenants at retail properties may be entitled to terminate their leases or pay reduced rent if sales are below certain target levels, or if an anchor tenant or one or more of the larger tenants cease operations at that property or fail to open. If anchor stores in a mortgaged property were to close, the borrower may be unable to replace those anchor tenants in a timely manner on similar terms, 26 and customer traffic may be reduced, possibly affecting sales at the remaining retail tenants. The lack of replacement anchors and a reduction in rental income from remaining tenants may adversely affect the borrower’s ability to pay current debt service or successfully refinance the mortgage loan at maturity. These risks with respect to an anchored retail property may be increased when the property is a single tenant property. In addition, various anchor parcels and/or anchor improvements at a mortgaged property may be owned by the anchor tenant (or an affiliate of the anchor tenant) or by a third party, rather than the related borrower, and therefore not be part of the related mortgaged property and the related borrower may not receive rental income from such anchor tenant. Current levels of property income may not be maintained due to varying tenant occupancy. Rental payments from tenants of retail properties typically comprise the largest portion of the net operating income of those mortgaged properties. Tenants at our retail properties may be paying rent but are not yet in occupancy or have signed leases but have not yet started paying rent and/or are not yet in occupancy. Tenants at our retail properties may be in a rent abatement period. There can be no assurance that such tenants will be in a position to pay full rent when the abatement period expires. Risks applicable to anchor tenants (such as bankruptcy, failure to renew leases, early terminations of leases and vacancies) also apply to other tenants. We cannot assure you that the rate of occupancy at the stores will remain at the current levels or that the net operating income contributed by our retail properties will remain at its current or past levels. Competition may adversely affect the value and cash flow from retail properties. Retail properties face competition from sources outside their local real estate market. For example, all of the following compete with more traditional retail properties for consumer business: · factory outlet centers; · discount shopping centers and clubs; · video shopping networks; · video stores; · book stores; · catalogue retailers; · home shopping networks; · direct mail; · internet websites; and · telemarketers. Continued growth of these alternative retail outlets (which often have lower operating costs) could adversely affect the rents collectible at our retail properties that operate as retail properties as well as the market value of such our retail properties. Moreover, additional competing retail properties have been and may in the future be built in the areas where the retail properties are located. Such competition could result in a reduction of income from our retail properties. In addition, although renovations and expansion at our retail properties will generally enhance the value of those properties over time, in the short term, construction and renovation work at such properties may negatively impact net operating income as customers may be deterred from shopping at or near a construction site. Economic decline in tenant businesses or changes in demographic conditions could adversely affect the value and cash flow from office properties. Economic decline in the businesses operated by the tenants of office properties may increase the likelihood that the tenants may be unable to pay their rent, which could result in realized losses on the mortgage loans. A number of economic and demographic factors may adversely affect the value of office properties, including: · the quality and diversity of an office building’s tenants (or reliance on a single or dominant tenant); · the quality of property management; · provisions in tenant leases that may include early termination provisions; · an economic decline in the business operated by the tenants; · the physical attributes of the building in relation to competing buildings (e.g., age, condition, design, location, access to transportation and ability to offer certain amenities, including, without limitation, current business wiring requirements); · the desirability of the area as a business location; 27 · the strength and nature of the local economy (including labor costs and quality, tax environment and quality of life for employees); · an adverse change in population, patterns of telecommuting or sharing of office space, and employment growth (which creates demand for office space); · competition from other office properties in the same market could decrease occupancy or rental rates at office properties; and · decreased occupancy or rental revenues could adversely affect property cash flow. Moreover, the cost of refitting office space for a new tenant is often higher than the cost of refitting other types of property. These risks may be increased if rental revenue depends on a single tenant, on a few tenants, if the property is owner occupied or if there is a significant concentration of tenants in a particular business or industry. In addition, adverse developments in the local, regional and national economies can affect the ability of a landlord to incur the cost of providing services at an office property, and the ability of a landlord to provide services to an office property can have a significant effect on the success of the property. Further, technological developments can affect the viability of office properties by rendering facilities obsolete or by reducing the size of the workforce necessary to perform office tasks, thus reducing demand for office space. If one or more of the larger tenants at a particular office property were to close or remain vacant, we cannot assure you that such tenants would be replaced in a timely manner or that such replacement tenants would be without incurring material additional costs to the related borrower, thus adversely affecting property cash flow. Risks particular to industrial properties Industrial properties may be adversely affected by reduced demand for industrial space occasioned by a decline in a particular industry segment (for example, a decline in defense spending), and a particular industrial property that suited the needs of its original tenant may be difficult to re‑let to another tenant or may become functionally obsolete relative to newer properties. Furthermore, lease terms with respect to industrial properties are generally for shorter periods of time and may result in a substantial percentage of leases expiring in the same year at any particular industrial property. In addition, industrial properties are often more prone to environmental concerns due to the nature of items being stored or type of work conducted at the property. Site characteristics at industrial properties may impose restrictions that may limit the properties’ suitability for tenants and affect the value of the properties. Site characteristics which affect the value of an industrial property include: clear ceiling heights; column spacing; number of bays (loading docks) and bay depths; truck turning radius; divisibility; zoning restrictions; and overall functionality and accessibility. An industrial property also requires availability of labor sources, proximity to supply sources and customers, and accessibility to rail lines, major roadways and other distribution channels. Properties used for industrial purposes may be more prone to environmental concerns than other property types. Increased environmental risks could adversely affect the value and cash flow from industrial properties. In addition, industrial properties may be adversely affected by reduced demand for industrial space occasioned by a decline in a particular industry segment (e.g., a decline in defense spending), and a particular industrial property that suited the needs of its original tenant may be difficult to relet to another tenant or become functionally obsolete relative to newer properties. In addition, lease terms with respect to industrial properties are generally for shorter periods of time than with respect to other property types and may result in a substantial percentage of leases expiring in the same year at any particular industrial property. Further, industrial properties may have tenants that are subject to risks unique to their business, such as cold storage facilities. Because of seasonal use, leases at such facilities are customarily for shorter terms, making income potentially more volatile than for 28 properties with longer term leases. In addition, such facilities require customized refrigeration design, rendering them less readily convertible to alternative uses. Risks associated with tenants generally. Cash flow from our properties will be affected by the expiration of leases and our ability to renew the leases or to relet the space on comparable terms. We generally rely on periodic lease or rental payments or guest fees from tenants to pay for maintenance and other operating expenses of the building, to fund capital improvements and to service the related obligation and any other debt or obligations it may have outstanding. There can be no assurance that tenants will renew leases upon expiration or that, if renewed, the terms would be similar to or more favorable than the terms of the prior lease or that the tenants will continue operations throughout the term of their leases. Our properties may have significant portions of month-to-month tenants or may have leases of short duration. Such leases do not provide the same stability as longer-term leases. Cash flow from properties would be adversely affected if tenants were unable to pay rent or if space was unable to be rented on favorable terms or at all. Changes in payment patterns by tenants may result from a variety of social, legal and economic factors, including, without limitation, the rate of inflation and unemployment levels and may be reflected in the rental rates offered for comparable space. In addition, upon re-letting or renewing existing leases, we will likely be required to pay leasing commissions and tenant improvement costs, which may adversely affect cash flow from the relevant property. We cannot assure you that (1) leases that expire can be renewed, (2) the space covered by leases that expire or are terminated can be re-let in a timely manner at comparable rents or on comparable terms or (3) we will have the cash or be able to obtain the financing to fund any required tenant improvements. Further, lease provisions among tenants may conflict in certain instances, or leases may contain restrictions on the use of parcels near the related property for which there is no corresponding restrictive covenant of record, in each case creating termination or other risks. Income from and the market value of the relevant properties would be adversely affected if vacant space in such properties could not be leased for a significant period of time, if tenants were unable to meet their lease obligations or if, for any other reason, rental payments could not be collected or if one or more tenants ceased operations at such property. Upon the occurrence of an event of default by a tenant, delays and costs in enforcing the lessor’s rights could occur. If we are not able to re-let the expiring or terminated space under as favorable conditions due to a decrease in the market rate for similar space, then cash flow from the relevant property may be adversely affected. Similarly, our inability to fully or favorably re-let the premises may adversely impact our ability to finance or sell the related property in order to make any required balloon payment. Uninsured and underinsured losses may affect the value of, or our return from, our real estate. Our properties, and the properties underlying our loans, have comprehensive insurance in amounts we believe are sufficient to permit the replacement of the properties in the event of a total loss, subject to applicable deductibles. There are, however, certain types of losses, such as earthquakes, sinkholes, floods, hurricanes and terrorism that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Also, inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might make it impractical to use insurance proceeds to replace a damaged or destroyed property. If any of these or similar events occurs, it may reduce our return from an affected property and the value of our investment. Real estate with environmental problems may create liabilities and exposure to losses. The existence of hazardous or toxic substances on a property will adversely affect its value and our ability to sell or borrow against the property. Contamination of real estate by hazardous substances or toxic wastes not only may give rise to a lien on that property to assure payment of the cost of remediation, but also can result in liability to us as owner, operator or lender for that cost. Many environmental laws can impose liability whether we know of, or are responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses, and may materially limit our use of our properties and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, future or amended laws, or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing environmental requirements, may increase our exposure to environmental liability. If we are unable to improve the performance of commercial real estate properties we take control of in connection with restructurings, workouts and foreclosures of investments, our financial performance may be adversely affected. We have taken control of properties underlying our commercial real estate investments in connection with restructurings, workouts and foreclosures of these investments. If we are unable to improve the performance of these properties from their performance under their prior owners, our cash flow may be adversely affected if the properties’ cash flow is insufficient to support 29 payments due on any related debt and we may not be able to sell these properties at a price that will allow us to recover our investment. We may need to make significant capital improvements to our properties in order to remain competitive. Our investments in real estate may face competition from newer, more updated properties. In order to remain competitive, we may need to make significant capital improvements to these properties. In addition, if we need to re-lease a property, we may need to make significant tenant improvements. Any financing of such improvements may reduce our ability to operate the property profitably and, if financing is not available, we may use our available cash resources which would reduce our cash flow, liquidity and ability to make distributions to shareholders. Lease expirations, lease defaults and lease terminations may adversely affect our revenue. Lease expirations, lease defaults and lease terminations may result in reduced revenue from our real estate if the lease payments received from replacement tenants are less than the lease payments received from the expiring, defaulting or terminating tenants. In addition, lease defaults by one or more significant tenants, lease terminations by tenants following events causing significant damage to the property or takings by eminent domain, or the failure of tenants under expiring leases to elect to renew their leases, could cause us to experience long periods with reduced or no revenue from a property and to incur substantial capital expenditures in order to obtain replacement tenants. See Item 2-“Properties,” for a ten-year lease expiration schedule for our non-residential properties as of December 31, 2015. Risks relating to our use of derivatives and hedging instruments Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our assets and operations. Under these provisions, any income that we generate from transactions intended to hedge our interest rate risk will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests if the instrument hedges interest rate risk on liabilities used to carry or acquire real estate assets, and such instrument is properly identified under applicable Treasury Regulations. Income from hedging transactions that do not meet these requirements will generally constitute nonqualifying income for purposes of both the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRSs would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our TRSs will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the TRSs. Hedging may adversely affect our earnings, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we may pursue various hedging strategies to seek to reduce our exposure to adverse changes in interest rates. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held, compliance with REIT rules, and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: ·interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; ·available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; ·due to a credit loss or other factors, the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; ·applicable law may require mandatory clearing of certain interest rate hedges we may wish to use, which may raise costs; ·the credit quality of the hedging counterparty owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign its side of the hedging transaction; ·the hedging counterparty owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; ·we may fail to recalculate, readjust and execute hedges in an efficient manner; and ·legal, tax and regulatory changes could occur and may adversely affect our ability to pursue our hedging strategies and/or increase the costs of implementing such strategies. Any hedging activity in which we engage may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions seeking to reduce risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates or credit spreads may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions or liabilities being hedged may vary materially. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect 30 correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio positions or liabilities being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and furthermore may expose us to risk of loss. In addition, some hedging instruments involve additional risk because they are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, we cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in significant losses. In addition, regulatory requirements with respect to derivatives, including eligibility of counterparties, reporting, recordkeeping, exchange of margin, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions are still under development and could impact our hedging transactions and how we and our counterparty must manage such transactions. We are subject to counterparty risk associated with our hedging activities. We are subject to credit risk with respect to the counterparties to derivative contracts (whether a clearing corporation in the case of exchange-traded instruments or another third party in the case of OTC instruments). If a counterparty becomes bankrupt or otherwise fails to perform its obligations under a derivative contract due to financial difficulties, we may experience significant delays in obtaining any recovery under the derivative contract in a dissolution, assignment for the benefit of creditors, liquidation, winding-up, bankruptcy, or other analogous proceeding. In the event of the insolvency of a counterparty to a derivative transaction, the derivative transaction would typically be terminated at its fair market value. If we are owed this fair market value in the termination of the derivative transaction and its claim is unsecured, we will be treated as a general creditor of such counterparty, and will not have any claim with respect to the underlying security. We may obtain only a limited recovery or may obtain no recovery in such circumstances. In addition, the business failure of a counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in its default, which may result in the loss of potential future value and the loss of our hedge and force us to cover our commitments, if any, at the then current market price. We may enter into hedging transactions that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, part of our investment strategy may involve entering into hedging transactions that could require us to fund cash payments in certain circumstances (such as the early termination of the hedging instrument caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the hedging instrument). The amount due with respect to an early termination would generally be equal to the unrealized loss of such open transaction positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in our results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may fail to qualify for, or choose not to elect, hedge accounting treatment. We intend to record derivative and hedging transactions in accordance with Topic 815 of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standard Codification, or Topic 815. Under these standards, we may fail to qualify for, or choose not to elect, hedge accounting treatment for a number of reasons, including if we use instruments that do not meet the Topic 815 definition of a derivative (such as short sales), we fail to satisfy Topic 815 hedge documentation and hedge effectiveness assessment requirements or our instruments are not highly effective. If we fail to qualify for, or choose not to elect, hedge accounting treatment, our operating results may suffer because losses on the derivatives that we enter into may not be offset by a change in the fair value of the related hedged transaction or item. Rules under the Dodd-Frank Act Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or Dodd-Frank Act, may require that we post cash collateral to secure our hedging transactions and any posting of such collateral could reduce our liquidity or limit our ability to hedge. The Dodd-Frank Act covers certain hedging instruments we may use in our risk management activities. The Dodd-Frank Act and related SEC and U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, regulations that have been adopted to date include significant new provisions regarding the regulation of derivatives (including mandatory clearing and margin requirements). Mandatory central clearing requires that we post cash collateral to secure our hedging transactions. Any posting of such collateral could reduce our liquidity or limit our ability to hedge. If we enter into certain hedging transactions or otherwise invest in certain derivative instruments, failure to obtain and maintain an exemption from being regulated as a commodity pool operator could subject us to additional regulation and compliance requirements which could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. 31 Rules under the Dodd-Frank Act establish a comprehensive new regulatory framework for derivative contracts commonly referred to as “swaps.” The Dodd-Frank Act covers certain hedging instruments we may use in our risk management activities. The Dodd-Frank Act and related SEC and U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, regulations that have been adopted to date include significant new provisions regarding the regulation of derivatives (including mandatory clearing and margin requirements). Mandatory central clearing requires that we post cash collateral to secure our hedging transactions. Any posting of such collateral could reduce our liquidity or limit our ability to hedge. Under this regulatory framework, mortgage real estate investment trusts, or REITs, that trade in commodity interest positions (including swaps) are considered “commodity pools” and the operators of such REITs would be considered “commodity pool operators,” or CPOs. Absent relief, a CPO must register with the CFTC and become a member of the National Futures Association, or NFA, which requires compliance with NFA’s rules and renders such CPO subject to regulation by the CFTC, including with respect to disclosure, reporting, recordkeeping and business conduct. We may from time to time, directly or indirectly, invest in instruments that meet the definition of “swap” under the new Dodd-Frank Act rules, which may subject us to oversight by the CFTC. In the event that we invest in commodity interests, absent relief, we would be required to register as a CPO. We believe RAIT and its affiliates that could be considered CPOs have taken and will continue to take all appropriate steps needed to maintain such relief. In addition, RAIT and its affiliates may in the future claim a different exemption from registration as a CPO with the CFTC. Therefore, unlike a registered CPO, we will not be required to provide prospective investors with a CFTC compliant disclosure document, nor will we be required to provide investors with periodic account statements or certified annual reports that satisfy the requirements of CFTC rules applicable to registered CPOs, in connection with any offerings of shares. As an alternative to an exemption from registration, RAIT or its affiliates may register as a CPO with the CFTC and avail itself of certain disclosure, reporting and record-keeping relief under CFTC Rule 4.7. The CFTC has substantial enforcement power with respect to violations of the laws over which it has jurisdiction, including anti-fraud and anti-manipulation provisions. Among other things, the CFTC may suspend or revoke the registration of a person who fails to comply, prohibit such a person from trading or doing business with registered entities, impose civil money penalties, require restitution and seek fines or imprisonment for criminal violations. Additionally, a private right of action exists against those who violate the laws over which the CFTC has jurisdiction or who willfully aid, abet, counsel, induce or procure a violation of those laws. In the event we fail to receive interpretive relief from the CFTC on this matter, are unable to claim an exemption from registration and fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of these new rules, we may be unable to use certain types of hedging instruments or we may be subject to significant fines, penalties and other civil or governmental actions or proceedings, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During 2016, interest rate swap agreements relating to RAIT I and RAIT II will terminate in accordance with their terms which could expose us to increased exposure to the risk interest RAIT I and RAIT II pay on their respective CDO notes will be higher than the interest paid on the assets collateralizing the CDO notes. During 2016, interest rate swap agreements relating to RAIT I and RAIT II with a notional amount of $243.8 million and a weighted average strike rate of 5.1% as of December 31, 2015, will terminate in accordance with their terms. While we expect this will result in increased cash flow to us of $11.4 million during 2016, this could expose us to the risk that interest RAIT I and RAIT II pay on their respective CDO notes will be higher than the interest paid on the assets collateralizing the CDO notes. Tax Risks We and our REIT affiliates may fail to qualify as a REIT, and such failure to qualify would have significant adverse consequences on the value of our common shares. In addition, if we fail, or any REIT Affiliate fails, to qualify as a REIT, our respective dividends will not be deductible, and the entity will be subject to corporate-level tax on its net taxable income, which would reduce the cash available to make distributions. We believe that we have been organized and operated in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS that we and our REIT affiliates qualify as a REIT and any statements in our filings or the filings of our REIT affiliates with the SEC are not binding on the IRS or any court. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may also affect our abilities and those of our REIT affiliates to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we and our REIT affiliates must each satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the composition of our respective assets and sources of our respective gross income. Also, we must each make distributions to our respective shareholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our respective net taxable incomes, excluding net capital gains. In addition, our respective ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership or REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As an example, 32 to the extent we invest in preferred equity securities of other REIT issuers, our qualification as a REIT will depend upon the continued qualification of such issuers as REITs under the Internal Revenue Code. Accordingly, unlike other REITs, we and our REIT affiliates may be subject to additional risk regarding our respective ability to qualify and maintain our respective qualification as a REIT. The reduction in our rate of originating new assets, operations and liquidity may adversely impact our and our REIT affiliates’ ability to meet REIT requirements and we and our REIT affiliates may be less able to make changes to our respective investment portfolios to adjust our respective REIT qualifying assets and income depending on our respective ability to deploy capital and maintain assets under management. There can be no assurance that we and our REIT affiliates will be successful in operating in a manner that will allow us to each qualify as a REIT. Because we receive significant distributions from TRFT, and may in the future receive significant distributions from other of our REIT affiliates, the failure of one or more of such REIT affiliates to maintain its REIT status could cause us to lose our REIT status. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors, our respective ability to qualify as a REIT or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. If we or any of our REIT affiliates fail to qualify as a REIT or lose our respective qualification as a REIT at any time, we, or such REIT affiliate, would face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our respective shareholders for each of the years involved because: · we, or such REIT affiliate, would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our respective shareholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; · we, or such REIT affiliate, also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and · unless statutory relief provisions apply, we, or such REIT affiliate, could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year of disqualification. In addition, if we, or such REIT affiliate, fail to qualify as a REIT, such entity will not be required to make distributions to its shareholders, and all distributions to shareholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT, we and our REIT affiliates must each continually satisfy various tests regarding sources of income, nature and diversification of assets, amounts distributed to shareholders and the ownership of common shares. In order to satisfy these tests, we and our REIT affiliates may be required to forgo investments that might otherwise be made. Accordingly, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our and our REIT affiliates’ investment performance. In particular, at least 75% of our and our REIT affiliates total assets at the end of each calendar quarter must each consist of real estate assets, government securities, and cash or cash items. For this purpose, “real estate assets” generally include interests in real property, such as land, buildings, leasehold interests in real property, stock of other entities that qualify as REITs, interests in mortgage loans secured by real property, investments in stock or debt instruments during the one-year period following the receipt of new capital and regular or residual interests in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC. In addition, the amount of securities of a single issuer that we and each of our REIT affiliates hold must generally not exceed either 5% of the value of our gross assets or 10% of the vote or value of the issuer’s outstanding securities. Certain of the assets that we or our REIT affiliates hold or intend to hold will not be qualified real estate assets for the purposes of the REIT asset tests. In addition, although preferred equity securities of REITs should generally be treated as qualified real estate assets, this will require that (i) they are treated as equity for U.S. tax purposes, and (ii) their issuers maintain their qualification as REITs. CMBS should generally qualify as real estate assets. However, to the extent that we or our REIT affiliates own non-REMIC collateralized mortgage obligations or other debt instruments secured by mortgage loans (rather than by real property) or secured by non-real estate assets, or debt securities issued by corporations that are not secured by mortgages on real property, those securities will likely not be qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests. We and our REIT affiliates generally will be treated as the owner of any assets that collateralize a securitization transaction to the extent that we or such affiliates retain all of the equity of the securitization entity and do not make an election to treat such securitization entity as a TRS, as described in further detail below. As noted above, in order to comply with the REIT asset tests and 75% gross income test, at least 75% of each of our respective total assets and 75% of gross income must be derived from qualifying real estate assets, whether or not such assets would otherwise represent our respective best investment alternative. 33 A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including any mortgage loans, held in inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The prohibited transaction tax may apply to any sale of assets to a securitization and to any sale of securitization securities, and therefore may limit our respective ability to sell assets to or equity in securitizations and other assets. It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax and the holding of assets not qualifying as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests by conducting certain activities, holding non-qualifying REIT assets or engaging in securitization transactions through our TRSs, subject to certain limitations as described below. To the extent that we and our REIT affiliates engage in such activities through TRSs, the income associated with such activities may be subject to full U.S. federal corporate income tax. We have federal and state tax obligations. Even if we qualify as REITs for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay U.S. federal, state and local taxes on income and property. In addition, our domestic TRSs are fully taxable corporations that will be subject to taxes on their income, and they may be limited in their ability to deduct interest payments made to us. We also will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain amounts if the economic arrangements among us and TRSs are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties or if we receive payments for inventory or property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We may be taxable at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of the income arising from a taxable mortgage pool that is allocable to shares held by “disqualified organizations.” In addition, under certain circumstances we could be subject to a penalty tax for failure to meet certain REIT requirements but nonetheless maintains its qualification as a REIT. For example, we may be required to pay a penalty tax with respect to income earned in connection with securitization equity in the event such income is determined not to be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 95% gross income test but we are otherwise able to remain qualified as a REIT. To the extent that we or the TRSs are required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, we will have less to distribute to shareholders. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, we and our REIT affiliates must each distribute to our respective shareholders each calendar year at least 90% of our respective REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we and our REIT affiliates each satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of net taxable income, we or such affiliate will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax. In addition, we or our REIT affiliates will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our respective distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: · 85% of ordinary income for that year; · 95% of capital gain net income for that year; and · 100% undistributed taxable income from prior years. We and our REIT affiliates each intend to distribute our respective net income to our respective shareholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. There is no requirement that any TRS of ours or our REIT affiliates distribute their after-tax net income to us or our REIT affiliates and such TRSs may, to the extent consistent with maintaining our or our REIT affiliates’ qualification as a REIT, determine not to make any current distributions to us or our REIT affiliates. Our or our REIT affiliates’ respective taxable income may substantially exceed our or their respective net income as determined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, because, for example, expected capital losses will be deducted in determining our respective GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our or their respective taxable income. GAAP net income may also be reduced to the extent we or our REIT affiliates have to “markdown” the value of our respective assets to reflect their current value. Prior to the sale of such assets, those mark-downs do not comparably reduce taxable income. In addition, we or our REIT affiliates may invest in assets including the equity of securitization entities that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets. This taxable income may arise for us in the following ways: · Repurchase of our debt at a discount, including our convertible senior notes or CDO notes payable, will generally result in our recognizing REIT taxable income in the form of cancellation of indebtedness income generally equal to the amount of the discount. 34 · Origination of loans with appreciation interests may be deemed to have original issue discount for federal income tax purposes. Original issue discount is generally equal to the difference between an obligation’s issue price and its stated redemption price at maturity. This “discount” must be recognized as income over the life of the loan even though the corresponding cash will not be received until maturity. · Our or our REIT affiliates’ loan terms may provide for both an interest “pay” rate and “accrual” rate. When this occurs, we recognize interest based on the sum of the pay rate and the accrual rate, but only receive cash at the pay rate until maturity of the loan, at which time all accrued interest is due and payable. · Our or our REIT affiliates’ loans or unconsolidated real estate may contain provisions whereby the benefit of any principal amortization of the underlying senior debt inures to us or our REIT affiliates. We or our REIT affiliates recognize this benefit as income as the amortization occurs, with no related cash receipts until repayment of our loan. · Sales or other dispositions of investments in real estate, as well as significant modifications to loan terms may result in timing differences between income recognition and cash receipts. Although some types of taxable income are excluded to the extent they exceed 5% of our net income in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax with respect to any taxable income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we or it regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid U.S. federal corporate income tax and the 4% deductible excise tax in that year. If we were to make a taxable distribution of shares of our stock, stockholders may be required to sell such shares or sell other assets owned by them in order to pay any tax imposed on such distribution. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in shares of our common stock. If we were to make such a taxable distribution of shares of our stock, stockholders would be required to include the full amount of such distribution as income. As a result, a stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of cash received. Accordingly, stockholders receiving a distribution of our shares may be required to sell shares received in such distribution or may be required to sell other stock or assets owned by them, at a time that may be disadvantageous, in order to satisfy any tax imposed on such distribution. If a stockholder sells the shares it receives as a dividend in order to pay such tax, the sale proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend. Moreover, in the case of a taxable distribution of shares of our stock with respect to which any withholding tax is imposed on a non-U.S. stockholder, we may have to withhold or dispose of part of the shares in such distribution and use such withheld shares or the proceeds of such disposition to satisfy the withholding tax imposed. While the IRS in certain private letter rulings has ruled that a distribution of cash or shares at the election of a REIT’s stockholders may qualify as a taxable stock dividend if certain requirements are met, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to pay taxable dividends in cash and shares of common stock in any future period. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our Class A common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our Class A common stock. Distributions payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum tax rate applicable to income from ‘‘qualified dividends’’ payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is currently 20%. Distributions of ordinary income payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for these reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay qualified dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of structuring collateral mortgage obligations (‘‘CMOs’’), which would be treated as prohibited transactions for federal income tax purposes. Net income that we derive from a prohibited transaction is subject to a 100% tax. The term ‘‘prohibited transaction’’ generally includes a sale or other disposition of property (including agency securities, but other than foreclosure property, as discussed below) 35 that is held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business by us or by a borrower that has issued a shared appreciation mortgage or similar debt instrument to us. We could be subject to this tax if we were to dispose of or structure CMOs in a manner that was treated as a prohibited transaction for federal income tax purposes. The 100% tax does not apply to gains from the sale of property that is held through a TRS or other taxable corporation, as is the case with our securitization business, although such income will be subject to tax in the hands of the corporation at regular corporate rates. We intend to conduct our operations at the REIT level so that no asset that we own (or are treated as owning) will be treated as, or as having been, held for sale to customers, and that a sale of any such asset will not be treated as having been in the ordinary course of our business. As a result, we may choose not to engage in certain transactions at the REIT level, and may limit the structures we utilize for our CMO transactions, even though the sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. In addition, whether property is held ‘‘primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business’’ depends on the particular facts and circumstances. We intend to structure our activities to avoid prohibited transaction characterization but no assurance can be given that any property that we sell will not be treated as property held for sale to customers, or that we can comply with certain safe-harbor provisions of the Code that would prevent such treatment. Our taxable income is calculated differently than net income based on GAAP. Our taxable income may substantially differ from our net income based on GAAP. For example, interest income on our mortgage related securities does not necessarily accrue under an identical schedule for U.S. federal income tax purposes as for accounting purposes. Please see Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Rapid changes in the values of our target assets may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT or our exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the fair market value or income potential of our assets declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates, general market conditions, government actions or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate assets and income or liquidate our non-REIT-qualifying assets to maintain our REIT qualification or our exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the decline in real estate asset values or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. We may have to make decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT and Investment Company Act considerations. The Company’s qualification as a REIT and exemption from U.S. federal income tax with respect to certain assets may be dependent on the accuracy of legal opinions or advice rendered or given or statements by the issuers of assets that the Company acquires, and the inaccuracy of any such opinions, advice or statements may adversely affect the Company’s REIT qualification and result in significant corporate-level tax. When purchasing securities, the Company may rely on opinions or advice of counsel for the issuer of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents, for purposes of determining whether such securities represent debt or equity securities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and also to what extent those securities constitute REIT real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produce income which qualifies for purposes of the REIT income tests. In addition, when purchasing the equity tranche of a securitization, the Company may rely on opinions or advice of counsel regarding the qualification of the securitization for exemption from U.S. corporate income tax and the qualification of interests in such securitization as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The inaccuracy of any such opinions, advice or statements may adversely affect the Company’s REIT qualification and result in significant corporate-level tax. New legislation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. The present federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. The federal income tax rules dealing with REITs constantly are under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could affect or cause us to change our investments and commitments and affect the tax considerations of an investment in us. If our securitizations are subject to U.S. federal income tax at the entity level, it would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us and pay their creditors. We own foreign securitizations. There is a specific exemption from U.S. federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account 36 whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We intend that the consolidated securitization subsidiaries and any other non-U.S. securitizations that are TRSs will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If the IRS were to succeed in challenging the tax treatment of our securitizations, it could greatly reduce the amount that those securitizations would have available to distribute to their shareholders and to pay to their creditors. Any reduced distributions would reduce amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. Our and our REIT affiliates’ ownership of and relationship with TRSs will be limited, and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our and its REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Any domestic TRSs that we or our REIT affiliates own or that we or our REIT affiliates acquire in the future will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution but will not be required to be distributed. The value of the securities that we or our REIT affiliates hold in TRSs may not be subject to precise valuation. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we or our REIT affiliates will be able to comply with the 25% limitation discussed above or avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. Compliance with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code limit our ability to hedge mortgage-backed securities, preferred securities and related borrowings. Except to the extent provided by the regulations promulgated by the U.S. Treasury Department, or the Treasury regulations, any income from a hedging transaction we enter into in the normal course of business primarily to manage risk of interest rate or price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made, or ordinary obligations incurred or to be incurred, to acquire or carry real estate assets, which is clearly identified as specified in the Treasury regulations before the close of the day on which it was acquired, originated, or entered into, including gain from the sale or disposition of such a transaction, will not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (and will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test). To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result, we might have to limit use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through TRSs. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities or expose it or us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we or it would otherwise want to bear. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common shares. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. Fees we or our REIT affiliates receive will not be REIT qualifying income. We and our REIT affiliates must satisfy two gross income tests annually to maintain qualification as a REIT. First, at least 75% of a REIT’s gross income for each taxable year must consist of defined types of income that derive, directly or indirectly, from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property or temporary investment income. Qualifying income for purposes of that 75% gross income test generally includes: · rents from real property, · interest on debt secured by mortgages on real property or on interests in real property, and · dividends or other distributions on and gain from the sale of shares in other REITs. 37 Second, in general, at least 95% of a REIT’s gross income for each taxable year must consist of income that is qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, dividends, other types of interest, gain from the sale or disposition of stock or securities, income from certain interest rate hedging contracts, or any combination of the foregoing. Gross income from any origination fees we or our REIT affiliates obtain or from our sale of property that are held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is excluded from both income tests. Any origination fees we or our REIT affiliates receive will not be qualifying income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests applicable to REITs under the Internal Revenue Code. We typically receive, and our REIT affiliates may receive, initial payments, or “points,” from borrowers as commitment fees or additional interest. So long as the payment is for the use of money, rather than for other services provided by us or our REIT affiliates, we believe that this income should not be classified as non-qualifying origination fees. However, the Internal Revenue Service may seek to reclassify this income as origination fees instead of commitment fees or interest. If we cannot satisfy the Internal Revenue Code’s income tests as a result of a successful challenge of our classification of this income, we may not qualify as a REIT. Any fees for services, such as advisory fees or broker-dealer fees, received by us or our REIT affiliates will not qualify for either income test. Any such fees earned by a TRS of ours or of one of our REIT affiliates would not be subject to tax, and any distributions from TRSs would be qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test but not for the 75% gross income test. A portion of the dividends we distribute may be deemed a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. The amount of dividends we distribute to our common and preferred shareholders in a given quarter may not correspond to our taxable income for such quarter. Consequently, a portion of the dividends we distribute may be deemed a return of capital for federal income tax purposes, and will not be taxable but will reduce shareholders’ basis in the underlying common or preferred shares. Our ability to use TRSs, and consequently our ability to establish fee-generating businesses and invest in securitizations, will be limited by the election made by us to be taxed as a REIT, which may adversely affect returns to our shareholders. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of securities of one or more TRSs. We and TRFT currently own, and we, TRFT and any other REIT affiliates may own in the future, interests in additional TRSs. However, our ability to expand the fee-generating businesses of our and TRFT’s current TRSs and future TRSs we or our REIT affiliates may form, will be limited by our and our REIT affiliates need to meet this 25% test, which may adversely affect distributions we pay to our shareholders. If either TRFT or IRT fails to qualify as a REIT, then we also would very likely fail to qualify as a REIT and if any other significant REIT affiliate fails to qualify as a REIT, it would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. TRFT and IRT are REITs subject to all of the risks discussed above with respect to RAIT. If TRFT or IRT fails to qualify as a REIT, then we also would very likely fail to qualify as a REIT, because the income we receive from, and assets we hold through, TRFT and IRT make up a significant portion of our total income and assets and materially affect our ability to meet REIT qualification tests. The same would be true with respect to other REIT affiliates if the income derived from such REIT affiliate becomes a significant part of our income. Other Regulatory and Legal Risks of Our Business Our reputation, business and operations could be adversely affected by regulatory compliance failures. Potential regulatory action poses a significant risk to our reputation and thereby to our business. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States. We operate our business so as to comply with the Internal Revenue Code’s REIT rules and regulations and so as to remain exempt from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. In addition, we are subject to regulation under the Exchange Act and various other statutes. A number of our investing activities, such as our lending business, are subject to regulation by various U.S. state regulators. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of our business, including the authority to grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular businesses. A failure to comply with the obligations imposed by any of the regulations binding on us or to maintain any of the licenses required to be maintained by us could result in investigations, sanctions, monetary penalties and reputational damage. 38 Loss of our Investment Company Act exemption would affect us adversely. We seek to conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company. Under Section 3(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act, a company is not deemed to be an “investment company” if: · it neither is, nor holds itself out as being, engaged primarily, nor proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; and · it neither is engaged nor proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and does not own or propose to acquire “investment securities” having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets exclusive of government securities and cash items on an unconsolidated basis, which we refer to as the 40% test. “Investment securities” excludes U.S. government securities and securities of majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act (relating to issuers whose securities are held by not more than 100 persons or whose securities are held only by qualified purchasers, as defined). We rely on the 40% test because we are a holding company that conducts our businesses through wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiaries. As a result, the securities issued by our subsidiaries that are excepted from the definition of “investment company” under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities we may own, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our total assets exclusive of government securities and cash items on an unconsolidated basis. Based on the relative value of our investment in TRFT, on the one hand, and our investment in RAIT Partnership, on the other hand, we can comply with the 40% test only if RAIT Partnership itself complies with the 40% test (or an exemption other than those provided by Sections 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7)). Because the principal exemptions that RAIT Partnership relies upon to allow it to meet the 40% test are those provided by Sections 3(c)(5)(C) or 3(c)(6) (relating to subsidiaries primarily engaged in specified real estate activities), we are limited in the types of businesses in which we may engage through our subsidiaries. Because RAIT Partnership and the two wholly-owned subsidiaries through which we hold 100% of the partnership interests in RAIT Partnership—RAIT General, Inc. and RAIT Limited, Inc.—will not be relying on Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) for their respective Investment Company Act exemptions, our investments in these securities will not constitute “investment securities” for purposes of the 40% test if RAIT Partnership is otherwise exempt from the Investment Company Act. RAIT Partnership, our subsidiary that holds, directly and through wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiaries, a substantial portion of our assets, intends to conduct its operations so that it is not required to register as an investment company in reliance on the exemption from Investment Company Act regulation provided under Section 3(c)(5)(C). RAIT Partnership may also from time to time rely on the exemption from Investment Company Act regulation provided under Section 3(c)(6). Any entity relying on Section 3(c)(5)(C) for its Investment Company Act exemption must have at least 55% of its portfolio invested in qualifying assets (which in general must consist of mortgage loans, mortgage backed securities that represent the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans and other liens on and interests in real estate) and another 25% of its portfolio invested in other real estate-related assets. Based on no-action letters issued by the staff of the SEC, we classify our investments in mortgage loans as qualifying assets, as long as the loans are “fully secured” by an interest in real estate. That is, if the loan-to-value ratio of the loan is equal to or less than 100%, then we consider the loan to be a qualifying asset. We do not consider loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of 100% to be qualifying assets that come within the 55% basket, but only real estate-related assets that come within the 25% basket. Based on a no-action letter issued by the staff of the SEC, we treat most of our mezzanine loans as qualifying assets because we usually obtain a first lien position on the entire ownership interest of a special purpose entity, or SPE, that owns only real property, or that owns the entire ownership interest in a second SPE that owns only real property, and otherwise comes within the conditions of the no-action letter, and we treat any remaining mezzanine loans as real estate-related assets that come within the 25% basket. The treatment of other investments as qualifying assets and real estate-related assets, including equity investments in subsidiaries, is based on the characteristics of the underlying asset, in the case of a directly held investment, or the characteristics of the assets of the subsidiary, in the case of equity investments in subsidiaries. Any entity relying on Section 3(c)(6) for its Investment Company Act exemption must be primarily engaged, directly or through majority-owned subsidiaries, in one or more specified businesses, including a business described in Section 3(c)(5)(C), or in one or more of such businesses (from which not less than 25% of its gross income during its last fiscal year was derived), together with an additional business or businesses other than investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. TRFT, like RAIT, is a holding company that conducts its operations through subsidiaries. Accordingly, we intend to monitor TRFT’s holdings such that it will satisfy the 40% test. Similar to securities issued to us, the securities issued to TRFT by its subsidiaries that are excepted from the definition of “investment company” by Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities TRFT may own, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of 39 its total assets on an unconsolidated basis. This requirement limits the types of businesses in which TRFT may engage through these subsidiaries. We make the determination of whether an entity is a majority-owned subsidiary of RAIT, RAIT Partnership or TRFT. The Investment Company Act defines a majority-owned subsidiary of a person as a company 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of which are owned by such person, or by another company which is a majority-owned subsidiary of such person. The Investment Company Act further defines voting securities as any security presently entitling its owner or holder to vote for the election of trustees of a company. We treat companies, including future securitization subsidiaries, in which we own at least a majority of the outstanding voting securities as majority-owned subsidiaries for purposes of the 40% test. Neither RAIT, RAIT Partnership nor TRFT has requested the SEC to approve our treatment of any company as a majority-owned subsidiary and the SEC has not done so. If the SEC were to disagree with our treatment of one or more companies, including securitizations, as majority-owned subsidiaries, we would need to adjust our respective investment strategies and invest our respective assets in order to continue to pass the 40% test. Any such adjustment in its investment strategy could have a material adverse effect on TRFT and us. A majority of TRFT’s subsidiaries are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the Act with respect to the assets in which they can invest to avoid being regulated as an investment company. In particular, TRFT’s subsidiaries that are securitizations generally rely on Rule 3a-7, an exemption from the Investment Company Act provided for certain structured financing vehicles that pool income-producing assets and issue securities backed by those assets. Such structured financings may not engage in portfolio management practices resembling those employed by mutual funds. Accordingly, each TRFT securitization subsidiary that relies on Rule 3a-7 is subject to an indenture which contains specific guidelines and restrictions limiting the discretion of the securitization. The indenture prohibits the securitization from acquiring and disposing of assets primarily for the purpose of recognizing gains or decreasing losses resulting from market value changes. Certain sales and purchases of assets, such as dispositions of collateral that has gone into default or is at risk of imminent default, may be made so long as they do not violate the guidelines contained in each indenture and are not based primarily on changes in market value. The proceeds of permitted dispositions may be reinvested in collateral that is consistent with the credit profile of the securitization under specific and predetermined guidelines. In addition, absent obtaining further guidance from the SEC, substitutions of assets may not be made solely for the purpose of enhancing the investment returns of the holders of the equity securities issued by the securitization. As a result of these restrictions, TRFT’s securitization subsidiaries may suffer losses on their assets and TRFT may suffer losses on its investments in its securitization subsidiaries. If the combined value of the investment securities issued to TRFT by its subsidiaries that are excepted by Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities TRFT may own, exceeds 40% of TRFT’s total assets on an unconsolidated basis, TRFT may be required either to substantially change the manner in which it conducts its operations or to rely on Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) to avoid having to register as an investment company. As a result of the relative values of RAIT Partnership and TRFT, it is likely that TRFT would rely on the Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) exemptions, which would increase the assets we hold included in the 40% basket for purposes of the 40% test, which would increase the effects that variations in the value of RAIT Partnership’s assets would have on its ability to comply with the 40% test and, accordingly, our ability to remain exempt from registration as an investment company. None of RAIT, RAIT Partnership or TRFT has received a no-action letter from the SEC regarding whether it complies with the Investment Company Act or how its investment or financing strategies fit within the exclusions from regulation under the Investment Company Act that it is using. To the extent that the SEC provides more specific or different guidance regarding, for example, the treatment of assets as qualifying real estate assets or real estate-related assets, we may be required to adjust these investment and financing strategies accordingly. Any additional guidance from the SEC could provide additional flexibility to us and TRFT, or it could further inhibit the ability of TRFT and our combined company to pursue our respective investment and financing strategies which could have a material adverse effect on us. See Item 1-“Business-Certain REIT and Investment Company Act Limits On Our Strategies-Investment Company Act Limits.” Our ownership limitation may restrict business combination opportunities. To qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of each taxable year. To preserve our REIT qualification, our declaration of trust generally prohibits any person from owning more than 8.3% or, with respect to our original promoter, Resource America, Inc., 15%, of our outstanding common shares and provides that: · A transfer that violates the limitation is void. · A transferee gets no rights to the shares that violate the limitation. · Shares acquired that violate the limitation transfer automatically to a trust whose trustee has all voting and other rights. · Shares in the trust will be sold and the record holder will receive the net proceeds of the sale. 40 The ownership limitation may discourage a takeover or other transaction that our shareholders believe to be desirable. Preferred shares may prevent change in control. Our declaration of trust authorizes our board of trustees to issue preferred shares, to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued, to classify any unissued preferred shares and reclassify any previously classified but unissued preferred shares, without shareholder approval. The issuance of preferred shares could delay or prevent a change in control, apart from the ownership limitation, even if a majority of our shareholders want control to change. Maryland anti-takeover statutes may restrict business combination opportunities. As a Maryland REIT, we are subject to various provisions of Maryland law which impose restrictions and require that specified procedures be followed with respect to the acquisition of “control shares” representing at least ten percent of our aggregate voting power and certain takeover offers and business combinations, including, but not limited to, combinations with persons who own one-tenth or more of our outstanding shares. While we have elected to “opt out” of the control share acquisition statute, our board of trustees has the right to rescind the election at any time without notice to our shareholders. If our subsidiaries that are not registered as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act that provide collateral management, servicing or advisory services to securitizations or other investment vehicles were required to so register, it could hinder our operating performance and negatively impact our business and subject us to additional regulatory burdens and costs that we are not currently subject. Where our subsidiary provides collateral management, servicing or advisory services solely to one or more entities that do not invest in “securities” or regarding assets that are not “securities portfolios” that provide sufficient “regulatory assets under management”, as such terms are defined in the Investment Advisers Act, such subsidiary will not engage in activities that would require it to register as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act. We have determined that none of RAIT Partnership, RAIT’s affiliates providing servicing to the FL securitizations or IRT’s advisor need to register as an investment adviser for RAIT Partnership’s collateral management services to RAIT I and RAIT II, RAIT’s affiliates providing servicing to the FL securitizations or for the IRT advisor’s advisory services to IRT, respectively. We have not requested the SEC to approve our determination that these subsidiaries do not need to register as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act and the SEC has not done so. If the SEC or any applicable state regulatory authority were to disagree with our determination, we would need to register those companies as investment advisers and comply with all applicable requirements, which might require those subsidiaries to adjust the manner in which they provide services which could hinder their respective operating performance and negatively impact their respective business and subject them to additional regulatory burdens and costs that they are not currently subject to. Our settlement with the SEC of its investigation concerning our subsidiary, Taberna Capital Management, LLC, or TCM, restricts our ability to serve as an investment advisor until September 2018, which may require us to forgo opportunities. We may be subject to “lender liability” litigation. In recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed “lender liability.” Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or stockholders. We cannot assure you that such claims will not arise or that we will not be subject to significant liability if a claim of this type were to arise. We cannot assure you that our settlement of a shareholders’ derivative action will be finalized and/or approved or that any final settlement will not have different or additional material terms. On November 23, 2015, a shareholders’ derivative action, or the action, captioned Lobins v. Brown, et al., was filed in the Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County, or the court, naming RAIT, as nominal defendant, and certain of our current and former executive officers and trustees as defendants, or the individual defendants. On March 4, 2016, the court issued an order preliminarily approving a proposed settlement of the action. The proposed settlement, if finally approved by the court, will fully and finally resolve the issues raised in the action. The court has scheduled a hearing on June 7, 2016, at which the court will consider, among other things, whether to approve the proposed settlement as fair, reasonable, adequate and in the best interests of RAIT and its shareholders. We cannot guarantee that final approval will be forthcoming. Similarly, we cannot guarantee what the exact terms of any such final settlement or other resolution of this matter will be. For a description of this action, see “Item 3—Legal Proceedings” below. 41 Risks relating to our securities We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and we cannot assure you of our ability to pay dividends in the future or the amount of any dividends. Our board of trustees will determine the amount and timing of distributions. In making this determination, our trustees will consider all relevant factors, including REIT minimum distribution requirements, the amount of cash available for distribution, restrictions under Maryland law, capital expenditures and reserve requirements and general operational requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make distributions in the future or in amounts similar to our past distributions. We may need to fund distributions through borrowings, returning capital or selling assets, which may be available only at commercially unattractive terms, if at all. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. The price of our common shares and other securities historically has been volatile. This volatility may affect the price at which anyone holding our common shares or other securities could sell them, and the sale of substantial amounts of our common shares or such other securities could adversely affect the price of our common shares or such other securities. The market price for our common shares has varied between a high of $7.32 on March 12, 2015 and a low of $1.85 on February 11, 2016 in the twelve month period ending on March 9, 2016. This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell the common shares. Other securities we have issued have also had volatile market prices. The market prices of our securities are likely to continue to be volatile and the trading volume subject to significant fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the other risk factors discussed in this report; variations in our quarterly operating results from our expectations or those of securities analysts or investors, downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates, and announcement by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. This volatility and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common shares to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their common shares, may induce shareholder activism and may otherwise negatively affect the price or liquidity of our common shares. Future sales of our common shares in the public market could lower the market price for our common shares and adversely impact the trading price of the notes. In the future, we may sell additional common shares to raise capital. In addition, a substantial number of our common shares are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of the issued and issuable warrants, or the warrants, described below (see Part II Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources-Series D preferred shares”) and upon conversion of our outstanding senior convertible notes. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common shares. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common shares, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 