Item 1A. RISK FACTORSThis Report, including the Financial Supplement, contains, and our other public communications may contain, forward-looking statements; that is, information related to future, not past, events. Such statements generally include the words "believes," "plans," "intends," "targets," "will," "expects," "suggests," "anticipates," "outlook," "continues" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, all statements regarding: our Chapter 11 case; expected financial positions; results of operations; cash flows; financing plans; business strategy; budgets; capital and other expenditures; competitive positions; growth opportunities for existing products; benefits from new technology and cost reduction initiatives; plans and objectives; and markets for securities. For these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Like other businesses, we are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our projections or that could cause other forward-looking statements to prove incorrect. Factors that could cause actual events to materially differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements include those factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our reported results should not be considered as an indication of our future performance. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our projections and forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date thereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the projections and forward-looking statements contained in this document, or to update them to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this document. In addition to general economic, business and market conditions, we are subject to other risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, the following:The length and depth of product and industry business cycles in our segments may result in periods of reduced sales, earnings and cash flows, and portions of our business are subject to seasonality and weather-related effects.Our operating segments are sensitive to the cyclical nature of the industries they serve. Our construction business is cyclical in response to economic conditions and construction demand and is also seasonal and dependent on favorable weather conditions, with a decrease in construction activity during the winter months. Sales of our FCC catalysts tend to be lower in the first calendar quarter prior to the shift in production by refineries from home heating oil for the winter season to gasoline production for the summer season. Our packaging products are affected by seasonal and weather-related factors including the consumption of beverages and the size and quality of food crops.The global scope of our operations subjects us to the risks of doing business in foreign countries, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We operate our business on a global scale with approximately 71% of our 2013 sales outside the United States. We conduct business in over 40 countries and in more than 50 currencies. We currently have many production facilities, research and development facilities and administrative and sales offices located outside North America, including facilities and offices located in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and Latin America. We expect non-U.S. sales to continue to represent a substantial majority of our revenue. Accordingly, our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent in non-U.S. operations include the following:•commercial agreements may be more difficult to enforce and receivables more difficult to collect;•intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce;•increased shipping costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; •we may have difficulty transferring our profits or capital from foreign operations to other countries where such funds could be more profitably deployed;•we may experience unexpected adverse changes in export duties, quotas and tariffs and difficulties in obtaining export licenses;•some foreign countries have adopted, and others may impose, additional withholding taxes or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange and capital controls;15Table of Contents•foreign governments may nationalize private enterprises;•our business and profitability in a particular country could be affected by political or economic repercussions on a domestic, country specific or global level from terrorist activities and the response to such activities;•we may be affected by unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements; and•unanticipated events, such as geopolitical changes, could adversely affect these operations.Our success as a global business will depend, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions by developing, implementing and maintaining policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business.We are exposed to currency exchange rate changes that impact our profitability.We are exposed to currency exchange rate risk through our U.S. and non-U.S. operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may materially affect our operating results. For example, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the relative prices at which we and our competitors sell products in the same region and the cost of materials used in our operations. A substantial portion of our net sales and assets are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, at a constant level of business, our reported sales, earnings, assets and liabilities are reduced because the non-U.S. currencies translate into fewer U.S. dollars.We incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiary's functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction risks effectively, or volatility in currency exchange rates may expose our financial condition or results of operations to a significant additional risk.Prices for certain raw materials and energy are volatile; we may not be able to pass through increases in costs for raw materials and energy or maintain our current pricing levels, which may hurt our profitability.We use petroleum-based materials, metals, natural gas and other materials in the manufacture of our products. Prices for these materials are volatile and can have a significant effect on our pricing, sales, manufacturing and supply chain strategies as we seek to maximize our profitability. In 2012 and 2011, our Grace Catalysts Technologies sales were affected by significant increases in the prices of the rare earths used in the manufacture of our FCC catalysts. In response, we implemented surcharges on our FCC catalysts. In the 2011 third quarter, rare earth prices reached a peak and have since declined significantly. As a result, the amount of our surcharges has decreased with a corresponding decrease in sales. In 2013 and 2012, respectively, the negative effect of lower rare earth surcharges on sales was approximately $97 million and $170 million compared with the respective prior year. Our ability to successfully adjust strategies in response to volatile raw material and energy prices is a significant factor in maintaining or improving our profitability. If we are unable to successfully adjust our strategies in response to volatile prices, such volatility could have a negative effect on our sales and earnings in future periods.A substantial portion of our raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply and demand fundamentals change.We attempt to manage exposure to price volatility of major commodities through:•long-term supply contracts;•contracts with customers that permit adjustments for changes in prices of commodity-based materials and energy;•forward buying programs that layer in our expected requirements systematically over time; and•limited use of financial instruments.Although we regularly assess our exposure to raw material price volatility, we cannot always predict the prospects of volatility and we cannot always cover the risk in a cost effective manner.We have a policy of maintaining, when available, multiple sources of supply for raw materials. However, certain of our raw materials may be provided by single sources of supply. We may not be able to obtain sufficient raw materials due to unforeseen developments that would cause an interruption in supply. Even if we have multiple sources of supply for raw materials, these sources may not make up for the loss of a major supplier.16Table of ContentsIf we are not able to continue our technological innovation and successful introduction of new products, our customers may turn to other suppliers to meet their requirements.The specialty chemicals industry and the end-use markets into which we sell our products experience ongoing technological change and product improvements. A key element of our business strategy is to invest in research and development activities with the goal of introducing new high-performance, technically differentiated products. We may not be successful in developing new technology and products that successfully compete with products introduced by our competitors, and our customers may not accept, or may have lower demand for, our new products. If we fail to keep pace with evolving technological innovations or fail to improve our products in response to our customers’ needs, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of reduced sales of our products.We spend large amounts of money for environmental compliance in connection with our current and former operations.As a manufacturer of specialty chemicals and specialty materials, we are subject to stringent regulations under numerous U.S. federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, discharge, disposition and stewardship of hazardous wastes and other materials. We have expended substantial funds to comply with such laws and regulations and have established a policy to minimize our emissions to the environment. Nevertheless, legislative, regulatory and economic uncertainties (including existing and potential laws and regulations pertaining to climate change) make it difficult for us to project future spending for these purposes and if there is an acceleration in new regulatory requirements, we may be required to expend substantial additional funds to remain in compliance.We are subject to environmental clean-up costs, fines, penalties and damage claims that have been and continue to be costly.Grace is subject to lawsuits and regulatory actions, in connection with current and former operations (including divested businesses), for breaches of environmental laws that seek clean-up or other remedies. Grace is also subject to lawsuits and investigations by public and private parties under various environmental laws in connection with our current and former operations in various states, including with respect to off-site disposal at facilities where Grace has been identified as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, commonly referred to as CERCLA. We are also subject to similar risks outside of the U.S.Grace operated a vermiculite mine in Libby, Montana, until 1990. Some of the vermiculite ore that was mined at the Libby mine contained natural occurrences of asbestos. Grace is cooperating with EPA to investigate the Libby vermiculite mine and the surrounding bodies of water and forest lands and determine a final remedy. During 2010, EPA began reinvestigating up to 105 facilities where vermiculite concentrate from the Libby mine was processed. We are cooperating with EPA on this reinvestigation. EPA has requested that we conduct additional remediation at eight of these facilities. It is probable that EPA will request additional remediation at other facilities. We do not have sufficient information to identify either the sites that might require additional remediation or estimate the cost of any additional remediation. We will evaluate our estimated remediation liability for other sites as we receive additional information from EPA. We have established accounting accruals for all environmental matters for which a loss is considered to be probable and sufficient information is available to reasonably estimate the loss. We do not have sufficient information to accrue for all of Grace's environmental risks. These accruals do not include the cost to remediate the Libby vermiculite mine or costs related to any additional EPA claims, whether resulting from EPA's reinvestigation of vermiculite facilities or otherwise, which may be material but are not currently estimable. Due to these vermiculite-related matters, it is probable that Grace's ultimate liability for environmental matters will exceed Grace's current estimates by material amounts.We require liquidity to service our debt and to fund operations, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, acquisitions and other corporate expenses.Our ability to fund operations, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, acquisitions and other corporate expenses, including repayment of our debt, depends on our ability to generate cash through future operating performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that our businesses will generate sufficient cash or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to fund all of our requirements. If we are unable 17Table of Contentsto generate sufficient cash to fund all of our requirements, we may need to pursue one or more alternatives, such as to:•reduce or delay planned capital expenditures, research and development spending or acquisitions;•obtain additional financing or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity;•sell assets or businesses; and•sell additional equity.Any reduction or delay in planned capital expenditures, research and development spending or acquisitions or sale of assets or businesses may materially and adversely affect our future revenue prospects. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be able to raise additional equity capital, restructure or refinance any of our debt or obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all.Our indebtedness may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.Our indebtedness may have material adverse effects on our business, including to:•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general operating requirements;•restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or taking advantage of favorable business opportunities;•limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate, which may adversely affect our operating results and ability to meet our debt service obligations with respect to our outstanding debt; and•increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions, including recessions.If we incur additional debt, the risks related to our indebtedness may intensify.We have unfunded and underfunded pension plan liabilities. We will require future operating cash flow to fund these liabilities. We have no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash to satisfy these obligations.We maintain U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans covering current and former employees who meet or met age and service requirements. Our net pension liability and cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the longevity and actuarial profile of our workforce, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the actual and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change in the expected rate of return on plan assets. Assets available to fund the pension benefit obligation of the U.S. advance-funded pension plans at December 31, 2013, were approximately $1,145 million, or approximately $52 million less than the measured pension benefit obligation on a U.S. GAAP basis. In addition, any changes in the discount rate could result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following years. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost in the following years.Our obligation to make payments to the PD Trust in respect of asbestos PD Claims (other than ZAI PD Claims) is not capped and we may be obligated to make additional payments.Under the Joint Plan, an asbestos property damage trust has been established and funded under Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code. The order of the Bankruptcy Court confirming the Joint Plan contains a channeling injunction which provides that all pending and future asbestos-related property damage claims and demands, PD Claims, can only be brought against the PD Trust. The PD Trust contains two accounts. One of these accounts, the PD Account, is funded solely in respect of PD Claims other than those PD Claims related to our former ZAI attic insulation product. Unresolved and future non-ZAI PD Claims are to be litigated pursuant to procedures to be approved by the Bankruptcy Court and, to the extent such PD claims are determined to be allowed claims, are to be paid in cash by the PD Trust. We are obligated to make a payment to the PD Trust every six months in the amount of any non-ZAI PD Claims allowed during the preceding six months plus interest (if any) and, except for the first six months, the amount of PD Trust expenses for the preceding six months (the "PD Obligation"). The aggregate amount we are required to pay under the PD Obligation is not capped so we may have to make additional payments to the PD Account in respect of the PD Obligation. We are also obligated to make up to 10 contingent deferred payments to the PD Trust of $8 million during the 20-year period beginning on the fifth anniversary of the effective date, i.e. February 3, 2019, in respect of ZAI PD Claims in the event the ZAI PD Account's assets fall below $10 million in the preceding year. We have accrued liabilities for probable PD Claims expected to be resolved after 18Table of Contentsemergence from bankruptcy, but have not accrued any liability for the contingent ZAI PD payments as we do not believe they are probable.Our ability to use tax deductions to reduce future tax payments may be limited if there is a change in ownership of Grace or if Grace does not generate sufficient U.S. taxable income.Our ability to use future tax deductions, including net operating losses and deductions for the payments required by the Joint Plan (including the deferred payments), may be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if we undergo an ownership change as a result of future changes in the ownership of outstanding Grace common stock. In addition, our ability to use future tax deductions is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in the U.S. Our certificate of incorporation provides that under certain circumstances, our Board of Directors would have the authority to impose restrictions on the transfer of Grace common stock with respect to certain 5% shareholders in order to preserve these future tax deductions.We intend to pursue acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions that complement or expand our businesses. We may not be able to complete proposed transactions and even if completed, the transactions may involve a number of risks that may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have recently completed a number of acquisitions that we believe will contribute to our future success. We intend to continue to pursue opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current businesses or product lines or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may have difficulty identifying appropriate opportunities or, if we do identify opportunities, we may not be successful in completing transactions for a number of reasons. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including:•the diversion of management's attention from our existing businesses to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture;•possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process;•failure of the acquired business to achieve expected operational objectives; and•our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction.In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations or their employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, which may lead to operational inefficiencies. We work with dangerous materials that can injure our employees, damage our facilities and disrupt our operations.Some of our operations involve the handling of hazardous materials that may pose the risk of fire, explosion, or the release of hazardous substances. Such events could result from terrorist attacks, natural disasters, or operational failures, and might cause injury or loss of life to our employees and others, environmental contamination, and property damage. These events might cause a temporary shutdown of an affected plant, or portion thereof, and we could be subject to penalties or claims as a result. A disruption of our operations caused by these or other events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Some of our employees are unionized, represented by workers' councils or employed subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws in the United States.As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 6,700 global employees. Approximately 750 of our approximately 2,700 U.S. employees are unionized. In addition, a large number of our employees are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other rights to employees than the laws in the United States. Such employment rights require us to work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect any changes to labor arrangements. For example, most of our employees in Europe are represented by workers' councils that have co-determination rights on any changes in conditions of employment, including salaries and benefits and staff changes, and may impede efforts to restructure our workforce. A strike, work stoppage or slowdown by our employees or significant dispute with our employees, whether or not related to these negotiations, could result in a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs.19Table of ContentsWe may be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, which could hurt our business.From time to time, we face infringement claims from our competitors or others alleging that our processes or products infringe on their proprietary technologies. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of the claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending and resolving the claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business. If we are found to be infringing on the proprietary technology of others, we may be liable for damages, and we may be required to change our processes, redesign our products, pay others to use the technology or stop using the technology or producing the infringing product. Even if we ultimately prevail, the existence of the lawsuit could prompt our customers to switch to products that are not the subject of infringement suits.We do not pay cash dividends on our common stock.We have not paid a dividend on our common stock since 1997. Our Board of Directors has made no determination as to whether or when we will begin paying cash dividends. Until we begin paying dividends on our common stock, investors will have to rely on stock appreciation for a return on their investment.Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.