Item 1A. Risk Factors. If any of the following events discussed in the following risks were to occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial by us, may also constrain our business and operations. Risks Relating to our Capital Structure Our high level of debt and significant leverage may adversely affect our operations and our ability to grow and otherwise execute our business strategy. We have a substantial amount of debt. As of June 30, 2009, we had $1,551.6 million of outstanding debt, excluding letters of credit and guarantees. This represented 72.5% of our total capitalization as of June 30, 2009. The amount of our outstanding indebtedness is large compared to the net book value of our assets, and we have significant repayment obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. 32 Our substantial indebtedness could: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future capital expenditures, working capital, acquisitions or other needs; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, market and industry conditions and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, these conditions; • make us vulnerable to increases in interest rates since $316.4 million (as of September 1, 2009) and an additional $450.0 million (after the expiration of our interest rate swap agreement on March 31, 2010) of our borrowings under our senior credit facilities are, and additional borrowings may be, at variable interest rates; • our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, and we may be more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic or industry conditions or be unable to carry out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and our efforts to improve operating margins; • limit our ability to use operating cash in other areas of our business because we must use a substantial portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments; and • limit our ability to compete with others who are not as highly-leveraged. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest or to satisfy our other debt obligations, to refinance our indebtedness or to fund capital expenditures will depend on our future operating performance. Prevailing economic conditions (including interest rates) and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will also affect our ability to meet these needs. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or realize anticipated revenue growth or operating improvements, or obtain future borrowings in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt when needed on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Despite our current significant leverage, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks that we and our subsidiaries face. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indentures and the senior credit facilities do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. Our revolving credit facility provides commitments of up to $250.0 million (not giving effect to any outstanding letters of credit, which would reduce the amount available under our revolving credit facility), of which $218.8 million was available for future borrowings as of September 1, 2009. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, we may request an incremental term loan facility or facilities be added to our current senior credit facilities in an amount not to exceed $300.0 million in the aggregate, subject to receipt of commitments by existing lenders or other financing institutions and to the satisfaction of certain other conditions. We may in the future borrow all available amounts under the revolving credit facility, under the incremental term loan facility and in addition, we may borrow substantial additional indebtedness in the future under new debt agreements. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. Operating and financial restrictions in our debt agreements limit our operational and financial flexibility. The senior credit facilities and the indentures under which $575.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 9.0% senior subordinated notes due 2014 and $216.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 11.25% senior discount notes due 2015 were issued (collectively, the “Public Notes”) contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: 33 • incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends on or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make investments; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • limit dividends or other payments by restricted subsidiaries to our restricted subsidiaries; • create liens on pari passu or subordinated indebtedness without securing the Public Notes; • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, under the senior credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and tests. Events beyond our control may affect our ability to comply with those provisions, and we may not be able to meet those ratios and tests. The breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the senior credit facilities. In the event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed under the senior credit facilities, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable and could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. Borrowings under the senior credit facilities are senior in right of payment to the Public Notes. If any of our indebtedness were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and the Public Notes. Our capital expenditure and acquisition strategies require substantial capital resources. The building of new hospitals and the operations of our existing hospitals and newly acquired hospitals require ongoing capital expenditures for construction, renovation, expansion and the addition of medical equipment and technology. More specifically, we may in the future be contractually obligated to make significant capital expenditures relating to the facilities we acquire. Also, construction costs to build new hospitals are substantial and continue to increase. Our debt agreements may restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness to fund these expenditures. A breach of any of the restrictions or covenants in our debt agreements could cause a cross-default under other debt agreements. A significant portion of our indebtedness then may become immediately due and payable. We are not certain whether we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. If any senior debt is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness and our other indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. In addition, the indentures governing the Public Notes allow us to make significant dividend payments, investments and other restricted payments. Our making these payments could decrease available cash and adversely affect our ability to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. The 34 senior credit facilities and the indentures restrict our ability to use the proceeds from asset sales. We may not be able to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair and proceeds that we do receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Tightened credit markets and continued economic deterioration may prevent us from servicing our current debt or refinancing, replacing or otherwise obtaining a new revolving loan facility to replace our facility expiring in September 2010 or obtaining the necessary funds to repay a significant portion of our debt that will mature during September 2011. We are a highly leveraged company. As of June 30, 2009, we had $1,551.6 million of outstanding indebtedness. Of this amount, $766.4 million of term loans mature in September 2011. Additionally, we have a $250.0 million ($218.8 million net of borrowing capacity reductions for our outstanding letters of credit) revolving loan facility that expires in September 2010. The tightened credit markets have especially impacted the ability of highly leveraged companies, like us, to access sources of liquidity on similar terms or pricing as currently in place, or at all. Our inability to replace our revolving credit facility in September 2010 may limit our ability to competitively manage our current operations, make capital expenditures, make required principal and interest repayments under our debt agreements or complete acquisitions to grow our business. If prevailing instability in the credit and financial markets continues, we may be unable to refinance or repay our outstanding $766.4 million term debt due in September 2011. We also make significant cash interest payments on our outstanding $575.0 million 9.0% senior subordinated notes and will be required to make cash interest payments on our $216.0 million 11.25% senior discount notes beginning in April 2010. Should current economic conditions worsen, our operating cash flows may be materially adversely impacted, which could make it more difficult for us to make these cash interest payments. If we were unable to make scheduled interest or principal payments on our debt, we would be in default and, as a result: • Our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; • Our secured debt lenders could terminate their commitments and commence foreclosure proceedings against our assets; and • We could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We also face the risk of non-compliance with the debt covenants under our senior secured credit agreement, including the total leverage ratio limit, which decreased to 4.50x from 5.00x for the test period ending March 31, 2009. While we are currently in compliance with all of our debt covenants, future violations of any of these covenants without cure would result in a debt default as described above. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. A significant portion of the borrowings under our Senior Credit Facilities bear interest at variable rates. As a result, an increase in interest rates, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability. The impact of such an increase would be more significant than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial debt. For a discussion of how we manage our exposure to changes in interest rates through the use of interest rate swap agreements on certain portions of our outstanding debt, see “Item 7A. – Quantitave and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risks.” We are controlled by a small number of stockholders and they may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. We are controlled by our principal equity sponsors, and they have the ability to control our policies and operations. The interests of our principal equity sponsors may not in all cases be aligned with our interests. For example, our principal equity sponsors could cause us to make acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment in us, even though such transactions might reduce cash flows or capital reserves available to fund our debt service obligations. Additionally, our controlling shareholders are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Accordingly, our principal equity sponsors may also pursue 35 acquisitions that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our principal equity sponsors continue to own a significant amount of our equity interests, even if such amount is less than 50%, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Risks Related to our Business If we are unable to enter into favorable contracts with managed care plans, our operating revenues may be reduced. Our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with health maintenance organizations, insurers offering preferred provider arrangements and other managed care plans significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. Revenues derived from health maintenance organizations, insurers offering preferred provider arrangements and other managed care plans, including managed Medicare and managed Medicaid plans, accounted for approximately 58% of our net patient revenues for the year ended June 30, 2009. Managed care organizations offering prepaid and discounted medical services packages represent an increasing portion of our admissions, a general trend in the industry which has limited hospital revenue growth nationwide and a trend that may continue. In addition, private payers are increasingly attempting to control healthcare costs through direct contracting with hospitals to provide services on a discounted basis, increased utilization review and greater enrollment in managed care programs such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. Additionally, the trend towards consolidation among private managed care payers tends to increase their bargaining prices over fee structures. In most cases, we negotiate our managed care contracts annually as they come up for renewal at various times during the year. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to renew existing managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. Other healthcare companies, including some with greater financial resources, greater geographic coverage or a wider range of services, may compete with us for these opportunities. If we are unable to contain costs through increased operational efficiencies or to obtain higher reimbursements and payments from managed care payers, our results of operations and cash flows will be materially adversely affected. Our revenues may decline if federal or state programs reduce our Medicare or Medicaid payments or managed care companies reduce our reimbursements. Approximately 56% of our net patient revenues for the year ended June 30, 2009 came from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, including Medicare and Medicaid managed plans. In recent years, federal and state governments have made significant changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Some of those changes adversely affect the reimbursement we receive for certain services. In addition, due to budget deficits in many states, significant decreases in state funding for Medicaid programs have occurred or are being proposed. On August 22, 2007, CMS issued a final rule for federal fiscal year 2008 for the hospital inpatient prospective payment system. This rule adopted a two-year implementation of MS-DRGs, a severity-adjusted DRG system. This change represented a refinement to the DRG system, and its impact on our revenues has not been significant. Realignments in the DRG system could impact the margins we receive for certain services. DRG rates are updated and MS-DRG weights are recalibrated each federal fiscal year. The index used to update the market basket gives consideration to the inflation experienced by hospitals and entities outside the healthcare industry in purchasing goods and services. The annual Medicare regulatory update for federal fiscal year 2010 provides for a 2.1% market basket update for hospitals that submit certain quality patient care indicators and a 0.1% update for hospitals that do not submit this data. While we will endeavor to comply with all quality data submission requirements, our submissions may not be deemed timely or sufficient to entitle us to the full market basket adjustment for all our hospitals. Medicare payments to hospitals in federal fiscal year 2009 were reduced by 0.9% to eliminate what CMS estimates will be the effect of coding or classification changes as a result of hospitals implementing the MS-DRG system. After earlier proposing an increase in the “documentation and coding adjustment” to 1.9% for federal fiscal year 2010, on July 31, 2009 CMS announced that it had decided not to make any adjustment in federal fiscal year 2010 since it did not know whether federal fiscal year 2009 spending from documentation and coding is more or less than earlier projected. However, Congress has given CMS the ability to continue to retrospectively determine if the documentation and coding adjustment levels for federal fiscal years 2008 36 and 2009 were adequate to account for changes in payments not related to changes in case mix. If the levels are found to have been inadequate, CMS could impose an adjustment to payments for federal fiscal years 2011 and 2012. This evaluation of changes in case-mix based on actual claims data may yield a higher documentation and coding adjustment thereby potentially reducing our revenues and impacting our results of operations in ways that cannot be quantified at this time. Additionally, Medicare payments to hospitals are subject to a number of other adjustments, and the actual impact on payments to specific hospitals may vary. In some cases, commercial third-party payers and other payers such as some state Medicaid programs rely on all or portions of the Medicare DRG system to determine payment rates. The change from traditional Medicare DRGs to MS-DRGs could adversely impact those payment rates if any other payers adopt MS-DRGs. The federal government and many states have recently adopted or are currently considering reducing the level of Medicaid funding (including upper payment limits) or program eligibility that could adversely affect future levels of Medicaid reimbursement received by our hospitals. Since states must operate with balanced budgets and since the Medicaid program is often a state’s largest program, a number of states have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures. DRA 2005 includes federal Medicaid cuts of approximately $4.8 billion over five years. Additionally, on May 29, 2007, CMS published a final rule entitled “Medicaid Program; Cost Limit for Providers Operated by Units of Government and Provisions to Ensure the Integrity of Federal-State Financial Partnership” which is estimated to reduce federal Medicaid funding from $12 to $20 billion over five years. Congress enacted two moratoria in respect of this rule that delayed six of seven proposed Medicaid regulations in this final CMS rule until July 1, 2009. On June 30, 2009, three more of the Medicaid regulations that had been under a congressional moratorium set to expire July 1, 2009 were officially rescinded all or in part by CMS, and CMS also delayed until June 30, 2010 the enforcement of the fourth of the six regulations. As a result of these changes in implementing the final rule, the impact on us of the final rule can not be quantified. States have also adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation designed to reduce coverage and program eligibility, enroll Medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states’ Medicaid systems. Future legislation or other changes in the administration or interpretation of government health programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with managed care plans significantly affects the revenues and operating results of most of our hospitals. Managed care payers increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among managed care plans tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. Reductions in price increases or the amounts received from managed care plans could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In recent years, both the Medicare program and several large managed care companies have changed our reimbursement to link some of their payments, especially their annual increases in payments, to performance of quality of care measures. We expect this trend to “pay-for-performance” to increase in the future. If we are unable to meet these performance measures, our results of operations and cash flow will be materially adversely affected. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that could reduce our revenues and profitability. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to licensing, the conduct of operations, the ownership of facilities, the addition of facilities and services, financial arrangements with physicians and other referral sources, confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records, billing for services and prices for services. If a determination were made that we were in material violation of such laws or regulations, our operations and financial results could be materially adversely affected. In many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretations of these laws and regulations. This is particularly true in the case of Medicare and Medicaid statute codified under section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act and known as the “Anti-Kickback Statute.” This law prohibits providers and other person or entities from soliciting, receiving, offering or paying, directly or indirectly, any remuneration with the intent to generate referrals of orders for services or items reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. As authorized by Congress, the United States Department of Health and Human Services has issued regulations which describe some of the conduct and business relationships immune from prosecution under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The fact that a given business arrangement does not fall within one of 37 these “safe harbor” provisions does not render the arrangement illegal, but business arrangements of healthcare service providers that fail to satisfy the applicable safe harbor criteria risk increased scrutiny by enforcement authorities. Some of the financial arrangements that our facilities maintain with physicians do not meet all of the requirements for safe harbor protection. The regulatory authorities that enforce the Anti-Kickback Statute may in the future determine that one or more of these arrangements violate the Anti-Kickback Statute or other federal or state laws. A determination that a facility has violated the Anti-Kickback Statute or other federal laws could subject us to liability under the Social Security Act, including criminal and civil penalties, as well as exclusion of the facility from participation in government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. In addition, the portion of the Social Security Act commonly known as the “Stark Law” prohibits physicians from referring Medicare and (to an extent) Medicaid patients to providers of certain “designated health services” if the physician or a member of his or her immediate family has an ownership or investment interest in, or compensation arrangement with, that provider. In addition, the provider in such arrangements is prohibited from billing for all of the designated health services referred by the physician. Many of the services furnished by our facilities are “designated health services” for Stark Law purposes. There are multiple exceptions to the Stark Law, among others, for physicians maintaining an ownership interest in an entire hospital or having a compensation relationship with the facility as a result of employment agreements, leases, physician recruitment and certain other arrangements. However, each of these exceptions applies only if detailed conditions are met. An arrangement subject to the Stark Law must qualify for an exception in order for the services to be lawfully referred by the physician and billed by the provider. CMS has issued three phases of final regulations implementing the Stark Law. Phases I and II became effective in January 2002 and July 2004, respectively, and Phase III became effective in December 2007. While these regulations help clarify the requirements of the exceptions to the Stark Law, it is unclear how the government will interpret many of these exceptions for enforcement purposes. In addition, in July 2007 CMS proposed far-reaching changes to the regulations implementing the Stark Law that would further restrict the types of arrangements that hospitals and physicians may enter, including additional restrictions on certain leases, percentage compensation arrangements, and agreements under which a hospital purchases services under arrangements. On July 31, 2008, CMS issued a final rule which, in part, finalized and responded to public comments regarding some of its July 2007 proposed major changes to the Stark Law regulations to undermine many common hospital/physician joint venture models. The most far-reaching of the changes made in this final July 2008 rule will effectively prohibit, as of a delayed effective date of October 1, 2009, both “under arrangements” ventures between a hospital and any of its physicians and unit-of-service-based "per click" compensation and percentage-based compensation in office space and equipment leases between a hospital and its physicians. We have examined all of our “under arrangements” ventures and space and equipment leases with physicians to identify those arrangements which potentially violate these new Stark regulations, and we are in the process of restructuring or terminating non-conforming arrangements so identified prior to October 1, 2009. Because the Stark Law and its implementing regulations are relatively new, we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of this law and its regulations. We attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the Stark Law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot assure that every relationship complies fully with the Stark Law. In addition, in the July 2008 final Stark rule CMS indicated that it will continue to enact further regulations tightening aspects of the Stark Law that it perceives allow for Medicare program abuse, especially those regulations that still permit physicians to profit from their referrals of ancillary services. We cannot assure you that the arrangements entered into by our hospitals with physicians will be found to be in compliance with the Stark Law, as it ultimately may be implemented or interpreted. Additionally, if we violate the Anti-kickback Statute or Stark Law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the False Claims Act, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam, or “whistleblower,” suit. If we fail to comply with the Anti-kickback Statute, the Stark Law, the False Claims Act or other applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain an effective corporate compliance program, we could be subjected to liabilities, including civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs 38 and, for violations of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. See Item 1, “Business — Governmental Regulation and Other Factors.” All of the states in which we operate have adopted or have considered adopting similar anti-kickback and physician self-referral legislation, some of which extends beyond the scope of the federal law to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients and physician self-referrals, regardless of the source of payment for the care. Little precedent exists for the interpretation or enforcement of these laws. Both federal and state government agencies have announced heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts. Government officials responsible for enforcing healthcare laws could assert that one or more of our facilities, or any of the transactions in which we are involved, are in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute or the Stark Law and related state law exceptions. It is also possible that the courts could ultimately interpret these laws in a manner that is different from our interpretations. Moreover, other healthcare companies, alleged to have violated these laws, have paid significant sums to settle such allegations and entered into “corporate integrity agreements” because of concern that the government might exercise its authority to exclude those providers from governmental payment programs (Medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE). A determination that one or more of our facilities has violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. Illinois and Massachusetts require governmental determinations of need (“Certificates of Need”) prior to the purchase of major medical equipment or the construction, expansion, closure, sale or change of control of healthcare facilities. We believe our facilities have obtained appropriate certificates wherever applicable. However, if a determination were made that we were in material violation of such laws, our operations and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The governmental determinations, embodied in Certificates of Need, can also affect our facilities’ ability to add bed capacity or important services. We cannot predict whether we will be able to obtain required Certificates of Need in the future. A failure to obtain any required Certificates of Need may impair our ability to operate the affected facility profitably. The laws, rules and regulations described above are complex and subject to interpretation. If we are in violation of any of these laws, rules or regulations, or if further changes in the regulatory framework occur, our results of operations could be significantly harmed. For a more detailed discussion of the laws, rules and regulations described above, see Item 1, “Business – Government Regulation and Other Factors.” Some of our hospitals will be required to submit to CMS information on their relationships with physicians and this submission could subject such hospitals and us to liability. CMS announced in 2007 that it intends to collect information on ownership, investment and compensation arrangements with physicians from 500 (pre-selected) hospitals by requiring these hospitals to submit to CMS Disclosure of Financial Relationship Reports (“DFRR”) from each selected hospital. CMS also indicated that at least 10 of our hospitals will be among these 500 hospitals required to submit a DFRR because these 10 hospitals did not respond to CMS’ voluntary survey instrument on this topic purportedly submitted to these hospitals via email by CMS in 2006. CMS intends to use this data to determine whether these hospitals were in compliance with the Stark Law and implementing regulations during the reporting period (currently expected to be the cost reporting periods of these hospitals ending in 2006), and CMS has indicated it may share this information with other government agencies and with Congressional committees. Many of these agencies have not previously analyzed this information and have the authority to bring enforcement actions against the hospitals. However, in July 2008 CMS announced that, based on its further review and expected further public comments on this matter, CMS may decide in the future to decrease (but not increase) the number of hospitals to which it will send the DFRR below the 500 hospitals originally designated. Once a hospital receives this request for a DFRR, the hospital will have 60 days to compile a significant amount of information relating to its financial relationships with physicians. The hospital may be subject to civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 per day if it is unable to assemble and report this information within the required timeframe or if CMS or any other government agency determines that the submission is inaccurate or incomplete. 39 The hospital may be the subject of investigations or enforcement actions if a government agency determines that any of the information indicates a potential violation of law. Also, while in 2007 CMS had announced that it was contemplating proposing a regular financial disclosure process that would apply in the future to all Medicare participating hospitals, in July 2008 CMS announced that, based upon public comments previously received, it was not adopting a regular reporting or disclosure process at that time, and, thus, CMS said the DFRR will initially be used as a one-time collection effort. However, CMS also said in July 2008 that, depending on the information received from the initial DFRR process and other factors, it may propose future rulemaking to use the DFRR or some other instrument as a periodic or regular collection instrument. Thus, even if one of our hospitals does not receive the DFRR survey as part of the initial up to 500 selected hospitals, we expect that all of our hospitals will possibly have to report similar information to CMS in the future. The DFRR and its supporting documentation are currently under review by the Office of Management and Budget and have not yet been released. Depending on the final format of the DFRR, responding hospitals may be subject to substantial penalties as a result of enforcement actions brought by government agencies and whistleblowers acting pursuant to the False Claims Act and similar state laws, based on such allegations like failure to respond within required deadlines, that the response is inaccurate or contains incomplete information or that the response indicates a potential violation of the Stark Law or other requirements. Any governmental investigation or enforcement action which results from the DFRR process could materially adversely affect the results of our operations. Providers in the healthcare industry have been the subject of federal and state investigations, whistleblower lawsuits and class action litigation, and we may become subject to investigations, whistleblower lawsuits or class action litigation in the future. Both federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of hospital companies, as well as their executives and managers. These investigations relate to a wide variety of topics, including: • cost reporting and billing practices; • laboratory and home healthcare services; • physician ownership of, and joint ventures with, hospitals; • physician recruitment activities; and • other financial arrangements with referral sources In addition, the federal False Claims Act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. Defendants determined to be liable under the False Claims Act may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. Typically, each fraudulent bill submitted by a provider is considered a separate false claim, and thus the penalties under false claims may be substantial. Liability arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. In some cases, whistleblowers or the federal government have taken the position that providers who allegedly have violated other statutes and have submitted claims to a governmental payer during the time period they allegedly violated these other statutes, have thereby submitted false claims under the False Claims Act. Some states have adopted similar whistleblower and false claims provisions. The Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Justice have, from time to time, established national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Initiatives include a focus on hospital billing for outpatient charges associated with inpatient services, as well as hospital laboratory billing practices. As a result of these regulations and initiatives, some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. For example, we have significant Medicare and Medicaid billings, we provide some durable medical equipment and home healthcare 40 services, and we have joint venture arrangements involving physician investors. We also have a variety of other financial arrangements with physicians and other potential referral sources including recruitment arrangements and leases. In addition, our executives and managers, many of whom have worked at other healthcare companies that are or may become the subject of federal and state investigations and private litigation, could be included in governmental investigations or named as defendants in private litigation. We are aware that several of our hospitals or their related healthcare operations were and may still be under investigation in connection with activities conducted prior to our acquisition of them. Under the terms of our various acquisition agreements, the prior owners of our hospitals are responsible for any liabilities arising from pre-closing violations. The prior owners’ resolution of these matters or failure to resolve these matters, in the event that any resolution was deemed necessary, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any investigations of us, our executives, managers, facilities or operations could result in significant liabilities or penalties to us, as well as adverse publicity. We maintain a voluntary compliance program to address health regulatory and other compliance requirements. This program includes initial and periodic ethics and compliance training and effectiveness reviews, a toll-free hotline for employees to report, without fear of retaliation, any suspected legal or ethical violations, annual “fraud and abuse” audits to look at all of our financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and annual “coding audits” to make sure our hospitals bill the proper service codes in respect of obtaining payment from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. As an element of our corporate compliance program and our internal compliance audits, from time to time we make voluntary disclosures and repayments to the Medicare and Medicaid programs and/or to the federal and/or state regulators for these programs in the ordinary course of business. At the current time, we know of no active investigations by any of these programs or regulators in respect of our disclosures or repayments. All of these voluntary actions on our part could lead to an investigation by the regulators to determine whether any of our facilities have violated the Stark Law, the Anti-Kickback Statute, the False Claims Act or similar state law. Either an investigation or initiation of administrative or judicial actions could result in a public announcement of possible violations of the Stark Law, the Anti-Kickback Statute or the False Claims Act or similar state law. Such determination or announcements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. Additionally, several hospital companies have in recent years been named defendants in class action litigation alleging, among other things, that their charge structures are fraudulent and, under state law, unfair or deceptive practices, insofar as those hospitals charge insurers lower rates than those charged to uninsured patients. We cannot assure you that we will not be named as a defendant in litigation of this type. Furthermore, the outcome of these suits may affect the industry standard for charity care policies and any response we take may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In June 2006 we and two other hospital systems operating in San Antonio, Texas had a putative class action lawsuit brought against all of us alleging that we and the other defendants has conspired with each other and with other unidentified San Antonio area hospitals to depress the compensation levels of registered nurses employed at the competing hospitals within the San Antonio area by engaging in certain activities that violated the federal antitrust laws. See “Item 3- Legal Proceedings” for further discussion of this litigation. On the same day that this litigation was brought against us and two other hospital systems in San Antonio, substantially similar class action litigation was brought against multiple hospitals in three other cities. Competition from other hospitals or healthcare providers (especially specialty hospitals) may reduce our patient volumes and profitability. The healthcare business is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients has intensified in recent years. Generally, other hospitals in the local communities served by most of our hospitals provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. In addition, we believe the number of freestanding specialty hospitals and surgery and diagnostic centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly in recent years. As a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. Some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments and charitable contributions and can finance capital expenditures and 41 operations on a tax-exempt basis. Increasingly, we are facing competition from physician-owned specialty hospitals and freestanding surgery centers that compete for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. If ambulatory surgery centers are better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our ambulatory surgery centers. Further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. See Item 1, “Business - Competition.” In 2005, CMS began making public performance data related to 10 quality measures that hospitals submit in connection with their Medicare reimbursement. In February 2006, federal legislation was enacted to expand and provide for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. During federal fiscal year 2008, CMS required hospitals to report 30 measures of inpatient quality of care to avoid a 2% point reduction in their market basket update. During federal fiscal year 2009, CMS requires hospitals to report 43 inpatient quality measures to avoid a 2% point reduction in their market basket update. For federal fiscal year 2010, CMS will require hospitals to report 47 inpatient quality measures to avoid a 2% reduction in their market basket update. If any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these quality measures, patient volumes could decline. Also, the additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. PHP also faces competition within the Arizona markets that it serves. As in the case of our hospitals, some of our competitors in these markets are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations that have greater financial resources than we do. The revenues we derive from PHP could significantly decrease if new plans operating under AHCCCS enter these markets or other existing AHCCCS plans increase their number of enrollees. Moreover, a failure to attract future enrollees may negatively impact our ability to maintain our profitability in these markets. We may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. We operate in a highly regulated and litigious industry. As a result, various lawsuits, claims and legal and regulatory proceedings have been instituted or asserted against us, including those outside of the ordinary course of business like class actions and those in the ordinary course of business like malpractice lawsuits. Some of these actions may involve large claims as well as significant defense costs. (See “Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.”) We maintain professional and general liability insurance in amounts we believe are sufficient to cover claims arising out of the operations of our facilities. Some of the claims could exceed the scope of the coverage in effect or coverage of particular claims or damages could be denied. The relatively high cost of professional liability insurance and, in some cases, the lack of availability of such insurance coverage, for physicians with privileges at our hospitals increases our risk of vicarious liability in cases where both our hospital and the uninsured or underinsured physician are named as co-defendants. As a result, we are subject to greater self-insured risk and may be required to fund claims out of our operating cash flows to a greater extent than during fiscal year 2009. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to obtain insurance coverage in the future or that such insurance coverage, if it is available, will be available on acceptable terms. While we cannot predict the likelihood of future claims or inquiries, we expect that new matters may be initiated against us from time to time. Moreover, the results of current claims, lawsuits and investigations cannot be predicted, and it is possible that the ultimate resolution of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, may have a material adverse effect on our business (both in the near and long term), financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our hospitals face a growth in uncompensated care as the result of the inability of uninsured patients to pay for healthcare services and difficulties in collecting patient portions of insured accounts. Like others in the hospital industry, we have experienced an increase in uncompensated care. Our combined provision for doubtful accounts and charity care deductions as a percentage of patient service revenues increased 42 from 12.0% during fiscal 2007 to 12.5% during fiscal 2008 and decreased to 12.0% during fiscal 2009. Our self pay discharges as a percentage of total discharges have not fluctuated significantly during our past three fiscal years. Our hospitals remain at risk for increases in uncompensated care as a result of price increases, the continuing trend of increases in coinsurance and deductible portions of managed care accounts and increases in uninsured patients as a result of potential state Medicaid funding cuts or general economic weakness. Although we continue to seek ways of improving point of service collection efforts and implementing appropriate payment plans with our patients, if we continue to experience growth in self-pay volumes and revenues, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Further, our ability to improve collections for self-pay patients may be limited by regulatory and investigatory initiatives, including private lawsuits directed at hospital charges and collection practices for uninsured and underinsured patients. Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. Physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions. Thus, the success of our hospitals depends in part on the following factors: • the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals; • the admitting practices of those physicians; and • the maintenance of good relations with those physicians. Most physicians at our hospitals also have admitting privileges at other hospitals. Our efforts to attract and retain physicians are affected by our managed care contracting relationships, national shortages in some specialties, such as anesthesiology and radiology, the adequacy of our support personnel, the condition of our facilities and medical equipment, the availability of suitable medical office space and federal and state laws and regulations prohibiting financial relationships that may have the effect of inducing patient referrals. If facilities are not staffed with adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment that meets the needs of patients, physicians may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, which could adversely affect our profitability. In an effort to meet community needs in the markets in which we operate, we have implemented a strategy to employ physicians both in primary care and in certain specialties. As of June 30, 2009, we employed approximately 290 practicing physicians, excluding residents. The deployment of a physician employment strategy includes increased salary costs, physician integration risks and difficulties associated with physician practice management. While we believe this strategy is consistent with industry trends, we cannot be assured of the long-term success of such a strategy. We may be unable to achieve our acquisition and growth strategies and we may have difficulty acquiring not-for-profit hospitals due to regulatory scrutiny. An important element of our business strategy is expansion by acquiring hospitals in our existing and in new urban and suburban markets and by entering into partnerships or affiliations with other healthcare service providers. The competition to acquire hospitals is significant, including competition from healthcare companies with greater financial resources than ours. We may not be able to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms. We may have difficulty obtaining financing, if necessary, for such acquisitions on satisfactory terms. We sometimes agree not to sell an acquired hospital for some period of time (currently no longer than 10 years) after purchasing it and/or grant the seller a right of first refusal to purchase the hospital if we agree to sell it to a third party. In addition, we may not be able to effectively integrate any acquired facilities with our operations. Even if we continue to acquire additional facilities and/or enter into partnerships or affiliations with other healthcare service providers, federal and state regulatory agencies may constrain our ability to grow. Additionally, many states, including some where we have hospitals and others where we may in the future attempt to acquire hospitals, have adopted legislation regarding the sale or other disposition of hospitals operated by not-for-profit entities. In other states that do not have specific legislation, the attorneys general have demonstrated an interest in these transactions under their general obligations to protect charitable assets from waste. These legislative and administrative efforts focus primarily on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the sale proceeds by the not-for-profit seller. These review and approval processes can add time to the consummation of an acquisition of a not-for profit hospital, and future actions on the state level could seriously 43 delay or even prevent future acquisitions of not-for-profit hospitals. Furthermore, as a condition to approving an acquisition, the attorney general of the state in which the hospital is located may require us to maintain specific services, such as emergency departments, or to continue to provide specific levels of charity care, which may affect our decision to acquire or the terms upon which we acquire one of these hospitals. Difficulties with integrating our acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations. We may not be able to profitably or effectively integrate the operations of, or otherwise achieve the intended benefits from, any acquisitions we make or partnerships or affiliations we may form. The process of integrating acquired hospitals may require a disproportionate amount of management’s time and attention, potentially distracting management from its day-to-day responsibilities. This process may be even more difficult in the case of hospitals we may acquire out of bankruptcy or otherwise in financial distress. In addition, poor integration of acquired facilities could cause interruptions to our business activities, including those of the acquired facilities. As a result, we may incur significant costs related to acquiring or integrating these facilities and may not realize the anticipated benefits. Moreover, acquired businesses may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations. We could in the future become liable for past activities of acquired businesses and these liabilities could be material. The cost of our malpractice insurance and the malpractice insurance of physicians who practice at our facilities remains volatile. Successful malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our physicians or our employees could materially adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. Physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are subject to legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. Hospitals and physicians have typically maintained a special type of insurance (commonly called malpractice or professional liability insurance) to protect against the costs of these types of legal actions. We created a captive insurance subsidiary on June 1, 2002, to assume a substantial portion of the professional and general liability risks of our facilities. For claims incurred during the period June 1, 2002 to May 31, 2006, we maintained all of our professional and general liability insurance through this captive insurance subsidiary in respect of losses up to $10.0 million per occurrence. For claims incurred from June 1, 2006 to June 30, 2009, we self-insured the first $9.0 million per occurrence, and our captive subsidiary insured the next $1.0 million per occurrence. We have also purchased an umbrella excess policy for professional and general liability insurance for the period July 1, 2009 to June 30, 2010 with unrelated commercial carriers. This policy covers losses in excess of $10.0 million per occurrence up to $75.0 million, but is limited to total annual payments of $65.0 million in the aggregate. While our premium prices have declined during the past few years, the total cost of professional and general liability insurance remains sensitive to the volume and severity of cases reported. There is no guarantee that excess insurance coverage will continue to be available in the future at a cost allowing us to maintain adequate levels of such insurance. Moreover, due to the increased retention limits insured by us and our captive subsidiary, if actual payments of claims materially exceed our projected estimates of malpractice claims, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Physicians’ professional liability insurance costs in certain markets have dramatically increased to the point where some physicians are either choosing to retire early or leave those markets. If physician professional liability insurance costs continue to escalate in markets in which we operate, some physicians may choose not to practice at our facilities, which could reduce our patient volumes and revenues. Our hospitals may also incur a greater percentage of the amounts paid to claimants if physicians are unable to obtain adequate malpractice coverage since we are often sued in the same malpractice suits brought against physicians on our medical staffs who are not employed by us. We anticipate employing over 160 additional physicians during our fiscal year 2010. Such a significant increase in employed physicians could significantly increase our professional and general liability risks and related costs in future periods since for employed physicians there is no insurance coverage from unaffiliated insurance companies. 44 We are subject to uncertainties regarding healthcare reform that could materially and adversely affect our business. In recent years, an increasing number of legislative initiatives have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in state legislatures that would result in major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Among the proposals that have been introduced in recent years are price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of a government health insurance plan or plans that would cover all citizens and increase payments by beneficiaries. Also, theObama administration has stated as its top domestic priority its desire to reform the U.S. healthcare system with the goal of providing affordable, accessible healthcare for all Americans. In July 2009 four of the five Congressional committees working on healthcare reform approved some version of reform legislation. In the House of Representatives, all three committees working on the legislation (the Committees on Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce and Education and Labor) passed different versions of the same extensive reform bill under which, for individuals not currently covered, a new healthcare exchange will be established where they can select either a new “public health insurance option” or a plan offered by private insurers. During the Congressional recess in August 2009, the three House committees worked to meld the bills into one final version for consideration by the entire House of Representatives as early as September 2009. In the Senate, its Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions approved its version of healthcare reform legislation on July 15, 2009 which is similar to, but less extensive in benefits than, the House version. Meanwhile, during August 2009 the Senate Committee on Finance continued its efforts to negotiate a bipartisan agreement on healthcare reform legislation and that committee is not expected to vote upon its healthcare reform bill until at least September 2009. One of the most significant differences in the legislation produced by the Senate Finance Committee is likely to be the establishment of state and/or regional health insurance cooperatives in lieu of a federally-administered “public option” to compete with private health insurance plans. Once passed by the Senate Finance Committee, the two Senate committees will need to merge the two bills into one final version for consideration by the entire Senate, potentially in September or October 2009. Also, many states have enacted or are considering enacting measures designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures. States have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage and program eligibility, enroll Medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand states’ Medicaid systems. We cannot predict whether any of the above proposals or any other proposals will be adopted, and if adopted, we cannot assure you that the implementation of these reforms will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Our facilities are concentrated in a small number of regions. If any one of the regions in which we operate experiences a regulatory change, economic downturn or other material change, our overall business results may suffer. Among our operations as of June 30, 2009, five hospitals and various related healthcare businesses were located in San Antonio, Texas; five hospitals and related healthcare businesses were located in metropolitan Phoenix, Arizona; two hospitals and related healthcare businesses were located in metropolitan Chicago, Illinois; and three hospitals and related healthcare businesses were located in Massachusetts. For the year ended June 30, 2009, our total revenues were generated as follows: Year Ended June 30, 2009 San Antonio 29.6 % Phoenix Health Plan and Abrazo Advantage Health Plan 19.3 Massachusetts 18.3 Metropolitan Phoenix, excluding Phoenix Health Plan and Abrazo Advantage Health Plan 17.9 Metropolitan Chicago (1) 14.6 Other 0.3 ____________________ 100.0 % (1) Includes MacNeal Health Providers. 45 Any material change in the current demographic, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions in any of these regions could adversely affect our overall business results because of the significance of our operations in each of these regions to our overall operating performance. Moreover, due to the concentration of our revenues in only four regions, our business is less diversified and, accordingly, is subject to greater regional risk than that of some of our larger competitors. If we are unable to control our healthcare costs at Phoenix Health Plan and Abrazo Advantage Health Plan, if the health plans should lose their governmental contracts or if budgetary cuts reduce the scope of Medicaid or dual-eligibility coverage, our profitability may be adversely affected. For the year ended June 30, 2009, PHP generated approximately 18.1% of our total revenues. PHP derives substantially all of its revenues through a contract with AHCCCS. AHCCCS pays capitated rates to PHP, and PHP subcontracts with physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers to provide services to its enrollees. If we fail to effectively manage our healthcare costs, these costs may exceed the payments we receive. Many factors can cause actual healthcare costs to exceed the capitated rates paid by AHCCCS, including: • our ability to contract with cost-effective healthcare providers; • the increased cost of individual healthcare services; • the type and number of individual healthcare services delivered; and • the occurrence of catastrophes, epidemics or other unforeseen occurrences Our current contract with AHCCCS began October 1, 2008 and expires September 30, 2011. This contract is terminable without cause on 90 days’ written notice from AHCCCS or for cause upon written notice from AHCCCS if we fail to comply with any term or condition of the contract or fail to take corrective action as required to comply with the terms of the contract. AHCCCS may also terminate the contract with PHP in the event of unavailability of state or federal funding. If our AHCCCS contract is terminated, our profitability would be adversely affected by the loss of these revenues and cash flows. Also, should the scope of the Medicaid program be reduced as a result of state budgetary cuts or other political factors, our results of operations could be adversely affected. For the year ended June 30, 2009, AAHP generated 1.2% of our total revenues. AAHP began providing healthcare coverage to Medicare and Medicaid dual-eligible enrollees on January 1, 2006. Most of AAHP’s members were formerly enrolled in PHP. AAHP’s contract with CMS went into effect on January 1, 2006, for a term of one year, with a provision for successive one year renewals, and has currently been renewed through December 31, 2009. If we fail to effectively manage AAHP’s healthcare costs, these costs may exceed the payments we receive. We are dependent on our senior management team and local management personnel, and the loss of the services of one or more of our senior management team or key local management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. The success of our business is largely dependent upon the services and management experience of our senior management team, which includes Charles N. Martin, Jr., our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Kent H. Wallace, our President and Chief Operating Officer; Keith B. Pitts, our Vice Chairman, Phillip W. Roe, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; and Joseph D. Moore, Executive Vice President. In addition, we depend on our ability to attract and retain local managers at our hospitals and related facilities, on the ability of our senior officers and key employees to manage growth successfully and on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any of our officers. If we were to lose any of our senior management team or members of our local management teams, or if we are unable to attract other necessary personnel in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were to lose the services of one or more members of our senior management team or a significant portion of our hospital management staff at one or more of our hospitals, we would likely experience a significant disruption in our operations and failure of the affected hospitals to adhere to their respective business plans. 46 Controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. Controls imposed by Medicare and commercial third-party payers designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as “utilization review,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. Utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressures to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. Although we are unable to predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. If we fail to continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. Technological advances with respect to computed axial tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) equipment, as well as other equipment used in our facilities, are continually evolving. In an effort to compete with other healthcare providers, we must constantly evaluate our equipment needs and upgrade equipment as a result of technological improvements. Such equipment costs typically range from $1.0 million to $3.0 million, exclusive of construction or build-out costs. Our hospitals face competition for staffing especially as a result of the national shortage of nurses and the increased imposition on us of nurse-staffing ratios, which has in the past and may in the future increase our labor costs and materially reduce our profitability. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and staff personnel responsible for the day-to-day operations of each of our hospitals, including most significantly nurses and other non-physician healthcare professionals. In the healthcare industry generally, including in our markets, the national shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue. This shortage has caused us in the past and may require us in the future to increase wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. We have voluntarily raised on several occasions in the past, and expect to raise in the future, wages for our nurses and other medical support personnel. In addition, union-mandated or state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios significantly affect not only labor costs, but may also cause us to limit patient admissions with a corresponding adverse effect on revenues if we are unable to hire the appropriate number of nurses to meet the required ratios. While we do not currently operate in any states with mandated nurse-staffing ratios, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios at any time. In those instances where our nurses are unionized, it is our experience that new union contracts often impose significant new additional staffing ratios by contract on our hospitals. This was the case with the increased staffing ratios imposed on us in our union contract with our nurses at Saint Vincent Hospital in Worcester, Massachusetts negotiated in 2007. Congress is currently considering a bill called the Employee Free Choice Act of 2009 (“EFCA”) which organized labor, a major supporter of the Obama administration, has called its number one legislative objective. EFCA would amend the National Labor Relations Act to establish a procedure whereby the National Labor Relations Board would certify a union as the bargaining representative of employees, without a NLRB-supervised secret ballot election, if a majority of unit employees signs valid union authorization cards (the “card-check provision”). Additionally, under EFCA, parties that are unable to reach a first contract within 90 days of collective bargaining could refer the dispute to mediation by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. If the Service is unable to bring the parties to agreement within 30 days, the dispute then would be referred to binding arbitration. Also, the bill would provide for increased penalties for labor law violations by employers. In July 2009, due to intense opposition from the business community, alternative draft legislation became public dropping the card-check provision, but putting in its place new provisions making it easier for employees to organize including provisions to require shorter unionization campaigns, faster elections and limitations on employer-sponsored anti-unionization 47 meetings which employees are required to attend. This legislation, if passed, would make it easier for our nurses or other groups of hospital employees to unionize, which could materially increase our labor costs. If our labor costs continue to increase, we may not be able to raise our payer reimbursement levels to offset these increased costs, including the significantly increased costs that we will incur for wage increases and nurse-staffing ratios under our new union contract with our nurses at Saint Vincent Hospital. Because substantially all of our net patient revenues consist of payments based on fixed or negotiated rates, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is materially constrained. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control our labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The current economic recession, along with difficult and volatile conditions in the capital and credit markets, could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, and we are unsure whether these conditions will improve in the near future. The United States economy is currently in a period of recession and global credit markets remain volatile. Declining consumer confidence and increased unemployment have increased concerns of prolonged economic weakness. While certain healthcare spending is considered non-discretionary and may not be significantly impacted by economic downturns, other types of healthcare spending may be significantly adversely impacted by such conditions. When patients are experiencing personal financial difficulties or have concerns about general economic conditions, they may choose to defer or forego elective surgeries and other non-emergent procedures, which are generally more profitable lines of business for hospitals. We are unable to determine the specific impact of the current economic conditions on our business at this time, but we believe that further deterioration or a prolonged period of recession will have an adverse impact on our operations. Other risk factors discussed in this report describe some significant risks that may be magnified by the current economic conditions such as the following: • Our concentration of operations in a small number of regions, and the impact of economic downturns in those communities. To the extent the communities in and around San Antonio, Texas; Phoenix, Arizona; Chicago, Illinois or certain communities in Massachusetts experience a greater degree of economic weakness than average, the adverse impact on our operations could be magnified. • Our revenues may decline if federal or state programs reduce our Medicare or Medicaid payments or managed care companies (including managed Medicare and managed Medicaid payers) reduce our reimbursement. Current economic conditions have accelerated and increased the budget deficits for most states, including those in which we operate. These budgetary pressures may result in healthcare payment reductions under state Medicaid plans or reduced benefits to participants in those plans. Also, governmental, managed Medicare or managed Medicaid payers may defer payments to us to conserve cash. Managed care companies may also seek to reduce payment rates or limit payment rate increases to hospitals in response to reductions in enrolled participants. • Our hospitals face a growth in uncompensated care as the result of the inability of uninsured patients to pay for healthcare services and difficulties in collecting patient portions of insured accounts. Higher unemployment, Medicaid benefit reductions and employer efforts to reduce employee healthcare costs may increase our exposure to uncollectible accounts for uninsured patients or those patients with higher co-pay and deductible limits. • We believe our operating cash and remaining borrowing capacity is sufficient to run our business and fund our growth initiatives. However, under extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance that such funds will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. Most of our cash and borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility is held with a limited number of financial institutions, which could increase our liquidity risk if one or more of those institutions become financially strained or are no longer able to operate. We are unable to predict if the condition of the United States economy, the local economies in the communities we serve or global credit conditions will improve in the near future or when such improvements may occur. 48 Compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may negatively impact our results of operations and failure to comply may subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of investors’ confidence in our internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “404 Act”) requires us to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and file management’s attestation with our annual report. The 404 Act also requires our independent auditors to opine on our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our fiscal year ending June 30, 2010. We have evaluated, tested and implemented internal controls over financial reporting to enable management to report on such internal controls under the 404 Act. However, we can not assure you that the conclusions reached in our June 30, 2010 management report will be the same as those reached by our independent auditors in its report. Failure on our part to comply with the 404 Act may subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting. A failure of our information systems would adversely affect our ability to properly manage our operations. We rely on our advanced information systems and our ability to successfully use these systems in our operations. These systems are essential to the following areas of our business operations, among others: • patient accounting, including billing and collection of patient service revenues; • financial, accounting, reporting and payroll; • coding and compliance; • laboratory, radiology and pharmacy systems; • remote physician access to patient data; • negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts; and • monitoring quality of care. If we are unable to use these systems effectively, we may experience delays in collection of patient service revenues and may not be able to properly manage our operations or oversee the compliance with laws or regulations. Difficulties with current construction projects or new construction projects such as additional hospitals or major expansion projects may involve significant capital expenditures that could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. We may decide to construct an additional hospital or hospitals in the future or construct additional major expansion projects to existing hospitals in order to achieve our growth objectives. Our ability to complete construction of new hospitals or new expansion projects on budget and on schedule would depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • our ability to control construction costs; • the failure of general contractors or subcontractors to perform under their contracts; • adverse weather conditions; • shortages of labor or materials; • our ability to obtain necessary licensing and other required governmental authorizations; and • other unforeseen problems and delays. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot assure you that we will not experience increased construction costs on our construction projects or that we will be able to construct our current or any future construction projects as originally planned. In addition, our current and any future major construction projects would involve a significant commitment of capital with no revenues associated with the projects during construction, which also could have a future adverse impact on our liquidity. If the costs for construction materials and labor continue to rise, such increased costs could have an adverse impact on the return on investment relating to our expansion projects. The cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased over the past years as a result of global and domestic events. We have experienced significant increases in the cost of steel due to the demand in China for 49 such materials and an increase in the cost of lumber due to multiple factors. Increases in oil and gas prices have increased costs for oil-based products and for transporting materials to job sites. As we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, we expend large sums of cash generated from operating activities. We evaluate the financial viability of such projects based on whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital. Such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or anticipated volumes do not materialize. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of hospitals could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. Some states require healthcare providers to obtain prior approval, known as certificates of need, for: • the purchase, construction or expansion of healthcare facilities; • capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount; or • changes in services or bed capacity. In giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services. Illinois and Massachusetts are the only states in which we currently own hospitals that have certificate of need laws. The failure to obtain any required certificate of need could impair our ability to operate or expand operations in these states. If the fair value of our reporting units declines, a material non-cash charge to earnings from impairment of our goodwill could result. Blackstone acquired our predecessor company during fiscal 2005. We recorded a significant portion of the purchase price as goodwill. At June 30, 2009, we had approximately $692.1 million of goodwill recorded on our financial statements. We expect to recover the carrying value of this goodwill through our future cash flows. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate, based on the fair value of our reporting units, whether the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired. During fiscal 2007, we recorded a $123.8 million ($110.5 million, net of tax benefit) impairment charge to goodwill to reduce the carrying values of our Chicago hospitals to their fair values. If the carrying value of our goodwill is further impaired, we may incur an additional material non-cash charge to earnings. Additional Risk Factors See the additional risks related to our business in “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations – General Trends” which are incorporated by reference in this Item 1A as if fully set forth herein. Available Information We currently voluntarily file certain reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We are an electronic filer and the SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains the reports and other information we file electronically. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are also available free of charge on our internet website at www.vanguardhealth.com under “Investor Relations-SEC Filings-SEC Filings on the Edgar Database” as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Please note that our website address is provided as an inactive textual reference only. Also, the information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such information is specifically referenced elsewhere in this report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 50 