Item 1A. RISK FACTORS This Report, including the Financial Supplement, contains, and our other public communications may contain, projections or other "forward-looking" information, that is, information related to future, not past, events. Such information generally includes the words "believes," "plans," "intends," "targets," "will," "expects," "anticipates," or similar expressions and includes all statements regarding our Chapter 11 proceeding, expected financial position, results of operations, cash flows, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, capital and other expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities for existing products, benefits from new technology and cost reduction initiatives, plans and objectives of management and markets for securities. For these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Like other businesses, we are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our projections or that could cause other forward-looking information to prove incorrect. Factors that could cause actual events to materially differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements include those factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further, our reported results should not be considered as an indication of our future performance. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our projections and forward-looking information, which speak only as of the date thereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the projections and forward- 18 Table of Contents looking information contained in this document, or to update them to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this document. In addition to general economic, business and market conditions, we are subject to other risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, the following: COMPANY RISKS Our proposed joint plan of reorganization, if confirmed and effective, may substantially impact the value of currently outstanding shares of Grace common stock. On February 27, 2009, supported by the Official Committee of Equity Security Holders, the Official Committee of Asbestos Personal Injury Claimants and the legal representative of future asbestos personal injury claimants, as co-proponents, we filed an amended proposed joint plan of reorganization, as further amended, the Joint Plan, with the bankruptcy court that is designed to address all pending and future asbestos-related claims and all other pre-petition claims as outlined therein. The Joint Plan may, if confirmed and effective, substantially impact the value of the ownership interests of holders of currently outstanding Grace common stock. Although it is supported by the parties thereto, other parties-in-interest in our Chapter 11 case have objected to several provisions of the Joint Plan. As a result, it is possible that the Joint Plan will not be confirmed by the bankruptcy court or the district court or become effective. Further, the effectiveness of the Joint Plan is subject to the fulfillment of numerous conditions that may not ultimately be fulfilled. One of these conditions is that we raise sufficient funds to pay certain claims in cash. We expect to require up to $850 million in new financing to fund the Joint Plan. If we are unable to obtain the necessary financing on acceptable terms, our emergence from Chapter 11 may be delayed. Until an ultimate plan of reorganization is confirmed and effective, the interests of the holders of Grace common stock remain subject to substantial dilution or cancellation. Accordingly, the value of Grace common stock is highly speculative and any investment in Grace common stock poses a high degree of risk. If our proposed joint plan of reorganization is not confirmed or does not become effective, the outcome of our Chapter 11 cases could result in the substantial dilution or cancellation of Grace's currently outstanding common stock. If our proposed joint plan of reorganization is not confirmed or does not become effective, the outcome of our Chapter 11 cases would depend primarily upon the resolution of our asbestos-related and other contingent liabilities. We would likely return to the bankruptcy court estimation trial that was suspended in April 2008 due to the personal injury settlement. We expect that the estimate resulting from this process would form the basis for a plan of reorganization that would provide for the funding of one or more trusts to which all pending and future asbestos-related claims would be channeled. If the amount of asbestos-related liabilities, as determined through estimation or otherwise, and other liabilities exceeded the assets available for funding, then we likely would issue additional shares of Grace common stock to satisfy such liabilities. The number of shares to be issued could substantially dilute the interests of current shareholders or result in a recapitalization of Grace that would cancel the shares of current shareholders and issue new shares to asbestos and other creditors. Because of this risk of substantial dilution or cancellation, the value of Grace common stock is highly speculative and any investment in Grace common stock poses a high degree of risk. 19 Table of Contents If objections to the Joint Plan are resolved adversely to Grace and the other proponents of the Joint Plan or if rulings resolving objections favorably to the proponents of the Joint Plan are appealed, conditions to the effectiveness of the Joint Plan may not be satisfied and the timing and terms of our emergence from Chapter 11 could be materially affected. The Bankruptcy Court required parties-in-interest who object to the Joint Plan to submit their objections by May 20, 2009. The objections filed generally relate to demands for interest at rates higher than provided for in the Joint Plan, assertions that the Joint Plan impairs insurers' contractual rights, assertions that the Joint Plan discriminates against Libby, Montana personal injury claimants, and the classification and treatment of claims under the Joint Plan. We believe that the Joint Plan complies with the requirements for confirmation under the Bankruptcy Code and we intend to vigorously defend the Joint Plan against these and all other objections. If certain objections were resolved adversely to the Joint Plan proponents, or if rulings by the Bankruptcy Court resolving certain objections favorably to the Joint Plan proponents were appealed, certain conditions to the effectiveness of the Joint Plan, including for example, payments pursuant to the Sealed Air Settlement and the Fresenius Settlement, might not be satisfied and potential lenders might not be willing to provide the new financing that Grace expects to require to fund the Joint Plan. The resolution of these objections and any related appeals could have a material effect on the terms and timing of our emergence from Chapter 11. The bankruptcy process may disrupt our business. We have attempted to minimize the adverse effect of our Chapter 11 reorganization on our relationships with our employees, suppliers, customers and other parties. Nonetheless, our relationships with our customers, suppliers and employees may be adversely impacted and our operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the continuation of our reorganization could negatively affect our ability to attract new employees and retain existing high performing employees. Chapter 11 limits the flexibility of our management team in running our business. While we operate our businesses as debtor-in-possession under supervision by the bankruptcy court, we are required to obtain the approval of the bankruptcy court prior to engaging in activities or transactions outside the ordinary course of business. For example, our strategic plan includes the acquisition of businesses in the specialty chemicals and specialty building materials industries. Such acquisitions generally require bankruptcy court approval if made by the company or its U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates that are parties to the Chapter 11 cases. Bankruptcy court approval of non-ordinary course activities entails preparation and filing of appropriate motions with the bankruptcy court, negotiation with the various creditors' committees and other parties in interest and one or more hearings. The various creditors' committees and other parties in interest may be heard at any bankruptcy court hearing and may raise objections with respect to these motions. This process delays major decisions and limits our ability to respond quickly to opportunities and events in the marketplace. Furthermore, in the event the bankruptcy court does not approve a proposed activity or transaction, we would be prevented from engaging in activities and transactions that we believe are beneficial to Grace. 20 Table of Contents Our financial statements do not reflect the terms of the proposed Joint Plan. Our financial statements include estimates of asbestos-related liabilities that are based on the conditions precedent to the amended plan of reorganization that we filed in 2005, the Prior Plan, rather than the Joint Plan. The Prior Plan and the Joint Plan would result in substantially different amounts of the asbestos-related liabilities in our financial statements. When we adjust our financial statements based on the Joint Plan or another plan that is filed and/or confirmed, such adjustments could be material to our consolidated financial position and results of operations. The proforma and prospective financial information that we filed with the bankruptcy court as an exhibit to the Joint Plan has not been and may not be fully updated to reflect events that occur after that filing and is subject to numerous assumptions. We provided proforma and prospective financial information in the exhibits to the Joint Plan filed with the bankruptcy court in compliance with the requirements of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. That information is not included in or incorporated into this Report. Though we have and may continue from time to time to update some of the information set forth in the proforma and prospective financial information to reflect events that occur after the filing of the Joint Plan with the bankruptcy court, we would not expect to fully update all such information unless required to do so by the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or the bankruptcy court. Further, this information is prepared in a format that may not be comparable to information in our financial statements included in this Report or other Reports filed with the SEC and is subject to numerous assumptions that may not be correct. As a result, investors in Grace common stock should not rely upon the proforma and prospective financial information filed with the bankruptcy court in connection with the Joint Plan. We may not be able to collect all asbestos-related insurance payments that may be due to us. We have insurance coverage for a portion of the asbestos-related claims against us. Under the Joint Plan, insurance policies that provide coverage for asbestos-related claims and proceeds, including interest, received after the date of the personal injury settlement, would be assigned to the personal injury trust established under the Joint Plan. We estimate that, assuming an ultimate payout of asbestos-related claims equal to the $1,700 million of asbestos-related liabilities recorded on our balance sheet, we should be entitled to approximately $500 million of insurance recovery. Accordingly, our December 31, 2009 balance sheet includes a long-term asset for estimated asbestos-related insurance of $500 million. Although this amount pertains only to insurance carriers with which we have asbestos settlement agreements, and/or which are currently solvent, we cannot be sure that all these amounts will be collected. We have entered into a settlement agreement with an underwriter of a portion of our excess insurance coverage. The insurer funded an escrow account for the benefit of the holders of claims that holds approximately $93.5 million, including interest earned on the account as of December 31, 2009. The settlement agreement, as amended in July 2009, provides that unless we confirm a plan of reorganization by December 31, 2013, at the option of the underwriter, exercisable at any time prior to April 30, 2014, the escrow amount with interest must be returned to the underwriter. The timing and amount of future payments from our insurers depends on their continued solvency and the resolution of disputes regarding coverage under the insurance policies as well as the nature and timing of actual claims paid. Because of the significance of our future asbestos-related payments, the receipt of timely and complete payments from our insurers will be important to the success of our reorganization. Under the Joint Plan, insurance policies that provide coverage for asbestos-related claims and proceeds from those policies, including interest, received after the date of the personal injury settlement, would be assigned to the personal injury trust established under the Joint Plan. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental clean-up fines, penalties and damage claims that have been and continue to be costly. Grace is subject to lawsuits and regulatory actions, in connection with current and former operations (including divested businesses), for breaches of environmental laws that seek clean-up or other remedies. Grace is also subject to lawsuits and investigations by public and private parties under various environmental laws in connection with our current and former operations in various states, including with respect to off-site disposal at facilities where Grace has been identified as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, commonly referred to as CERCLA. We have established accounting accruals for all environmental matters for which sufficient information is available. As we receive new information, our estimated liability may change materially. We do not have sufficient information to accrue for all of Grace's environmental risks, and we cannot be sure that our actual costs will be equal to or less than our current estimates and accruals. Furthermore, it is reasonably possible that costs associated with those environmental matters for which we have established accruals may exceed our current accruals by material amounts. Some or all of our liability in connection with alleged violations of environmental laws may not be discharged upon confirmation of a plan of reorganization. We are subject to liabilities with respect to businesses that we have divested in the past. Over the years, particularly during the 1980s and 1990s, we divested a substantial number of businesses that were not then consistent with our business strategy. With respect to many of these former businesses, we have contractually agreed to indemnify the buyer against liabilities arising prior to the closing of the transaction, including environmental liabilities. In many cases, we have also retained pension liabilities for the current and former employees of these businesses. These obligations would not be discharged under the Joint Plan. We have recorded liabilities with respect to indemnification obligations that we believe are probable and estimable and retained pension liabilities. As we receive additional information or new claims, our recorded liabilities may change materially. We have unfunded and underfunded pension plan liabilities. We will likely require current and future operating cash flow to fund the shortfall. We have no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy these obligations. We maintain U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans covering employees who meet age and service requirements. Our net pension liability and cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the longevity and actuarial profile of our workforce, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change in the expected rate of return on plan assets. For example, our U.S. advance-funded pension plans, which collectively have the largest asset base of our advance-funded plans and a targeted asset allocation of 60% equities and 40% bonds, experienced an overall decline of 26% in 2008 and an overall increase of 23% in 2009. Assets available to fund the pension benefit obligation of the U.S. advance-funded pension plans at December 31, 2009 were approximately $658 million, or approximately $359 million less than the measured pension benefit obligation. In addition, any changes in the discount rate could result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following years. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost in the following years. 22 Table of Contents The global scope of our operations subjects us to the risks of doing business in foreign countries, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct a substantial portion of our business outside of the United States, with approximately 69% of our 2009 sales to non-U.S. customers. We currently have many production facilities, research and development facilities and administrative and sales offices located outside North America, including facilities and offices located in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and Latin America. We expect non-U.S. sales to continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue. Accordingly, our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent in non-U.S. operations include the following: •agreements may be more difficult to enforce and receivables more difficult to collect; •foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; •we may have difficulty transferring our profits or capital from foreign operations to the United States or other countries where such funds could be more profitably deployed; •foreign governments may nationalize private enterprises; •we may experience unexpected adverse changes in export duties, quotas and tariffs and difficulties in obtaining export licenses; •intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce; •our business and profitability in a particular country could be affected by political or economic repercussions on a domestic, country specific or global level from terrorist activities and the response to such activities; •we may be affected by unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements; and •unanticipated events, such as geopolitical changes, could adversely affect these operations. Our success as a global business will depend, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions by developing, implementing and maintaining policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business. We are exposed to currency exchange rate changes that impact our profitability. We are exposed to currency exchange rate risk through our U.S. and non-U.S. operations. Fluctuations in currencies of other countries, especially the Euro, may materially affect our operating results. For example, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the relative prices at which we and our competitors sell products in the same region and the cost of materials used in our operations. A substantial portion of our net sales and assets are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against non-U.S. currencies, at a constant level of business, our reported non-U.S. sales, earnings, assets and liabilities are reduced because the non-U.S. currencies translate into fewer U.S. dollars. We incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiary's functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction risks effectively, or volatility in currency exchange rates may expose our financial condition or results of operations to a significant additional risk. 23 Table of Contents Our ability to use tax deductions to reduce future tax payments may be limited if there is a change in ownership of Grace or if Grace does not generate sufficient U.S. taxable income. Our ability to use future tax deductions, including net operating losses and deductions for the payments contemplated in the Joint Plan (including the deferred payments), may be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if we undergo an ownership change as a result of future changes in the ownership of outstanding Grace common stock. In addition, our ability to use future tax deductions is dependant on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in the U.S. In order to preserve these future tax deductions, the bankruptcy court has approved trading restrictions on Grace common stock until the effective date of a plan of reorganization. These restrictions prohibit (without the consent of Grace) a person from acquiring more than 4.75% of the outstanding Grace common stock or, for any person already holding more than 4.75%, from increasing such person's holdings. The Joint Plan provides that under certain circumstances, the Board of Directors would have the authority to impose restrictions on the transfer of Grace stock with respect to certain 5% shareholders in order to preserve these future tax deductions. We may be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, which could hurt our business. From time to time, we face infringement claims from our competitors or others alleging that our processes or products infringe on their proprietary technologies. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of the claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending and resolving the claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business. If we are found to be infringing on the proprietary technology of others, we may be liable for damages, and we may be required to change our processes, redesign our products, pay others to use the technology or stop using the technology or producing the infringing product. Even if we ultimately prevail, the existence of the lawsuit could prompt our customers to switch to products that are not the subject of infringement suits. While Grace is in bankruptcy, we are not permitted to pay dividends on Grace common stock. We are not permitted to pay dividends on Grace common stock while we are in bankruptcy. Following emergence from bankruptcy, we may be subject to covenants in connection with our financing arrangements that limit or prevent us from paying dividends for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, it is likely that following our emergence from bankruptcy, our board of directors will decide to reinvest our operating cash flow in our business rather than paying dividends. Accordingly, for the foreseeable future, investors in Grace common stock, in all likelihood, will obtain an economic benefit from their shares only by selling them. INDUSTRY RISKS The length and depth of product and industry business cycles in our segments may result in periods of reduced sales, operating margins and operating losses. Our operating segments are sensitive to the cyclical nature of the industries they serve. Our hydroprocessing catalyst product line and other hydroprocessing catalyst suppliers have experienced alternating periods of inadequate capacity and excess capacity for their products. Periods of inadequate capacity, including some due to raw material shortages, have usually resulted in increased selling prices and operating margins. This has often been followed by periods of capacity additions, which have resulted in declining capacity utilization rates, selling prices and operating margins. Our construction business is cyclical in response to economic conditions and construction 24 Table of Contents demand and is also seasonal and dependent on favorable weather conditions, with a decrease in construction activity during the winter months. Prices for certain raw materials and energy are volatile; we may not be able to pass through increases in costs and expenses for raw materials and energy or maintain our current pricing levels which may hurt our profitability. We use metals, significant amounts of natural gas and petroleum-based materials, including both specialty and commodity materials such as resins and solvents, in the manufacture of our products. Prices for these materials have fluctuated significantly in recent years. To the extent raw material and energy prices increase and we are unable to pass through such price increases to our customers, our operating profit and results of operations may decline. A substantial portion of our raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply and demand fundamentals change. We attempt to manage exposure to price volatility of major commodities through: •long-term supply contracts; •contracts with customers that permit adjustments for changes in prices of commodity-based materials and energy; •forward buying programs that layer in our expected requirements systematically over time; and •limited use of financial instruments. Although we regularly assess our exposure to raw material price volatility, we cannot always predict the prospects of volatility and we cannot always cover the risk in a cost effective manner. We have a policy of maintaining, when available, multiple sources of supply for raw materials. However, certain of our raw materials may be provided by single sources of supply. We may not be able to obtain sufficient raw materials due to unforeseen developments that would cause an interruption in supply. Even if we have multiple sources of supply for raw materials, these sources may not make up for the loss of a major supplier. We spend large amounts of money for environmental compliance in connection with our current and former operations. As a manufacturer of specialty chemicals and specialty materials, we are subject to stringent regulations under numerous U.S. federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, discharge, disposition and stewardship of hazardous wastes and other materials. We have expended substantial funds to comply with such laws and regulations and have established a policy to minimize our emissions to the environment. Nevertheless, legislative, regulatory and economic uncertainties (including existing and potential laws and regulations pertaining to climate change) make it difficult for us to project future spending for these purposes and if there is an acceleration in new regulatory requirements, we may be required to expend substantial additional funds to remain in compliance. We work with dangerous materials that can injure our employees, damage our facilities and disrupt our operations. Some of our operations involve the handling of hazardous materials that may pose the risk of fire, explosion, or the release of hazardous substances. Such events could result from terrorist attacks, natural disasters, or operational failures, and might cause injury or loss of life to our 25 Table of Contents employees and others, environmental contamination, and property damage. These events might cause a temporary shutdown of an affected plant, or portion thereof, and we could be subject to penalties or claims as a result. A disruption of our operations caused by these or other events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of our employees are unionized, represented by workers' councils or employed subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws in the United States. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 5,940 global employees. Approximately 750 of our approximately 2,650 U.S. employees are unionized. In addition, a large number of our employees are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other rights to employees than the laws in the United States. Such employment rights require us to work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect any changes to labor arrangements. For example, most of our employees in Europe are represented by workers' councils that have co-determination rights on any changes in conditions of employment, including salaries and benefits and staff changes, and may impede efforts to restructure our workforce. Collective bargaining agreements with unions representing employees at several of our facilities are scheduled to expire during 2010 and we expect that they will require renegotiation. A strike, work stoppage or slowdown by our employees or significant dispute with our employees, whether or not related to these negotiations, could result in a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 