ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a substantial degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should give careful consideration to the following risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this report. The following risk factors, however, may not reflect all of the risks associated with our business or an investment in our common stock. Accordingly, you should only consider investing in our common stock if you can afford to lose your entire investment. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We face intense competition, including from companies with greater resources, which could adversely affect our growth and could lead to decreased revenues. Several companies, including Google, Microsoft, Verizon, and Yahoo, currently market Internet Yellow Pages or local search services that directly compete with our services and products. We may not compete effectively with existing and potential competitors for several reasons, including the following: · some competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial and other resources than we have and are in better financial condition than we are; · some competitors have better name recognition, as well as larger, more established, and more extensive marketing, customer service, and customer support capabilities than we have; · some competitors may supply a broader range of services, enabling them to serve more or all of their customers’ needs. This could limit our sales and strengthen our competitors’ existing relationships with their customers, including our current and potential IAP advertisers; · some competitors may be able to better adapt to changing market conditions and customer demand; and · barriers to entry are not significant. As a result, other companies that are not currently involved in the Internet-based Yellow Pages advertising business may enter the market or develop technology that reduces the need for our services. Increased competitive pressure could lead to reduced market share, as well as lower prices and reduced margins for our services. If we experience reductions in our revenue for any reason, our margins may continue to decline, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. Our success depends upon our ability to establish and maintain relationships with our advertisers. Our ability to generate revenue depends upon our ability to maintain relationships with our existing advertisers, to attract new advertisers to sign up for revenue-generating services, and to generate traffic to our advertisers’ websites. We primarily use direct marketing efforts to attract new advertisers. These direct marketing efforts may not produce satisfactory results in the future. We attempt to maintain relationships with our advertisers through customer service and delivery of traffic to their businesses. An inability to either attract additional advertisers to use our service or to maintain relationships with our advertisers could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not introduce new or enhanced offerings to our advertisers and users, we may be unable to attract and retain those advertisers and users, which would significantly impede our ability to generate revenue. We will need to introduce new or enhanced products and services in order to attract and retain advertisers and users and to remain competitive. Our industry has been characterized by rapid technological change, changes in advertiser and user requirements and preferences, and frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies. These changes could render our technology, systems, and website obsolete. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent us from introducing new products and services. If we do not periodically enhance our existing products and services, develop new technologies that address our advertisers’ and users’ needs and preferences, or respond to emerging technological advances and industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis, our products and services may not be attractive to advertisers and users, which would significantly impede our revenue growth. In addition, our reputation and our brand could be damaged if any new product or service introduction is not favorably received. 13 Table of Contents Our quarterly results of operations could fluctuate due to factors outside of our control. Our operating results have historically fluctuated significantly and we have experienced recent declines in net revenues and operating profits. We could continue to experience fluctuations or continued declining operating results due to factors that may or may not be within our control. Such factors include the following: · fluctuating demand for our services, which may depend on a number of factors including o changes in economic conditions and our IAP advertisers’ profitability, o varying IAP advertiser response rates to our direct marketing efforts, o our ability to complete direct mailing solicitations on a timely basis each month, o changes in our direct marketing efforts, o IAP advertiser refunds or cancellations, and o our ability to continue to bill through LEC billing, ACH billing or credit card channels rather than through direct invoicing; · timing of new service or product introductions and market acceptance of new or enhanced versions of our services or products; · our ability to develop and implement new services and technologies in a timely fashion in order to meet market demand; · price competition or pricing changes by us or our competitors; · new product offerings or other actions by our competitors; · the ability of our check processing service providers to continue to process and provide billing information regarding our solicitation checks; · the amount and timing of expenditures for expansion of our operations, including the hiring of new employees, capital expenditures, and related costs; · technical difficulties or failures affecting our systems or the Internet in general; · a decline in Internet traffic at our website; · the cost of acquiring, and the availability of, information for our database of potential advertisers; and · the fixed nature of a significant amount of our operating expenses. The loss of our ability to bill IAP advertisers through our remaining Local Exchange Carriers on the IAP advertisers’ telephone bills would adversely impact our results of operations. Prior to 2004, our business model depended heavily upon our ability to bill advertisers on their telephone bills through their respective Local Exchange Carriers, or LECs. In 2004 and 2005, we faced challenges and impediments to our ability to bill certain advertisers in this manner. These challenges forced us to convert many of these advertisers to alternative methods of billing, resulting in decreased revenues. We continue, however, to rely on our ability to use the LEC billing method for between one-fourth and one-third of our net revenues. The existence of the LECs is the result of Federal legislation. In the same manner, Congress could pass future legislation that obviates the existence of or the need for the LECs. Additionally, regulatory agencies could limit or prevent our ability to use the LECs to bill our advertisers. The introduction of and advancement of new technologies, such as WiFi technology or other wireless-related technologies, could render unnecessary the existence of fixed telecommunication lines, which also could obviate the need for and access to the LECs. Finally, if the recent trend of certain LECs to change their policies concerning our ability to use an incentive check as a letter of authorization and to adopt more onerous reconfirmation requirements becomes more widespread, our ability to use the LECs to bill our advertisers could be jeopardized altogether. Our inability to use the LECs to bill our advertisers through their monthly telephone bills would result in increased dilution and decreased revenues and would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our revenue may decline over time due to the involvement of the CLECs in the local telephone markets. Due to competition in the telephony industry, many business customers are finding alternative telephony suppliers, such as Competitive Local Exchange Carriers, or CLECs, that offer less expensive alternatives to the LECs. When the LECs effectuate a price increase, many business customers look for an alternative telephone company, which may be a CLEC. When our advertising customers switch service providers from the LECs to a CLEC, we are precluded from billing these customers on their monthly telephone bill and must instead convert them to alternative billing methods such as ACH billing or direct invoicing. This conversion process can be disruptive to our operations and result in lost revenue. We cannot provide any assurances that our efforts will be successful. We may experience future increases in dilution of our customer base that we are able to bill on their monthly telephone bills, which, in turn, may result in decreases in our revenue. The loss of our ability to bill IAP advertisers through our ACH billing channel would adversely impact our results of operations. We bill a significant number of our IAP advertisers through our ACH billing channel. ACH transactions are closely regulated by NACHA - The Electronic Payments Association, which develops operating rules and business practices for the Automated Clearing House (ACH) Network and for electronic payments in the areas of Internet commerce and other electronic payment means. Changes in these rules and business practices could compromise our ability to bill a significant number of our advertisers through ACH billing, and we would have to transition these advertisers to other billing channels. Such changes would be disruptive and result in lost revenue. We depend upon our executive officers and key personnel. Our performance depends substantially on the performance of our executive officers and other key personnel. The success of our business in the future will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain, and motivate high quality personnel, especially highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. The loss of services of any executive officers or key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We do not maintain key person life insurance on the lives of any of our executive officers or key personnel. Competition for talented personnel is intense, and there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract, train, retain or motivate other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. In addition, market conditions may require us to pay higher compensation to qualified management and technical personnel than we currently anticipate. Any inability to attract and retain qualified management and technical personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Subsequent to September 30, 2005, we entered into a separation agreement with our CEO. To the extent that we cannot find a competent replacement on a timely basis, our operating results may be adversely affected. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. The internal control report must contain (i) a statement of management's responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, (ii) a statement identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, (iii) management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our most recent fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective, and (iv) a statement that the Company's independent auditors have issued an attestation report on management's assessment of internal control over financial reporting. 15 Table of Contents In order to achieve compliance with Section 404 of the Act within the prescribed period, we will need to engage in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which will be both costly and challenging. In this regard, management will need to dedicate internal resources, engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to (i) assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, (ii) take steps to improve control processes where appropriate, (iii) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented, and (iv) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. We can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent auditors’, conclusions at September 30, 2007 with respect to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Act. There is a risk that neither we nor our independent auditors will be able to conclude at September 30, 2007 that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective as required by Section 404 of the Act. During the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Our ability to efficiently process new advertiser sign-ups and to bill our advertisers monthly depends upon our check processing service providers and billing aggregators and processors, respectively. We currently use check processing companies to provide us with advertiser information at the point of sign-up for our Internet Advertising Package. Our ability to gather information to bill our advertisers at the point of sign-up could be adversely affected if one or more of these providers experiences a disruption in its operations or ceases to do business with us. We also depend upon our billing aggregators and service providers to efficiently bill and collect monies through our LEC billing and ACH billing channels. We currently have agreements with three billing aggregators and two ACH service providers. Any disruption in these third parties’ ability to perform these functions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We depend upon third parties to provide certain services and software, and our business may suffer if the relationships upon which we depend fail to produce the expected benefits or are terminated. We depend upon third-party software to operate certain of our services. The failure of this software to perform as expected would have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, although we believe that several alternative sources for this software are available, any failure to obtain and maintain the rights to use such software would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We also depend upon third parties to provide services that allow us to connect to the Internet with sufficient capacity and bandwidth so that our business can function properly and our websites can handle current and anticipated traffic. Any restrictions or interruption in our connection to the Internet would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. The market for our services is uncertain. The demand and market acceptance for our services may be subject to a high level of uncertainty. Advertisers and users may not adopt or continue to use Internet-base Yellow Pages services and other online services that we may offer in the future. Advertisers may find Internet Yellow Pages advertising to be less effective for meeting their business needs than traditional methods of Yellow Pages or other advertising and marketing. Our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations will be materially and adversely affected if potential advertisers do not adopt Internet Yellow Pages as an important component of their advertising expenditures. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to secure additional capital to expand our operations. Although we currently have no material long-term needs for capital expenditures, we will likely be required to make increased capital expenditures to fund our anticipated growth of operations, infrastructure, and personnel. We currently anticipate that our cash on hand as of September 30, 2005, together with cash flows from operations, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated liquidity needs for working capital and capital expenditures over the next 12 months. In the future, however, we may seek additional capital through the issuance of debt or equity depending upon our results of operations, market conditions or unforeseen needs or opportunities. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the following: · the pace of expansion of our operations; · our need to respond to competitive pressures; and · future acquisitions of complementary products, technologies or businesses. Our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties and actual results could vary materially as a result of the factors described above. As we require additional capital resources, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or draw on our existing bank line of credit. Debt financing must be repaid at maturity, regardless of whether or not we have sufficient cash resources available at that time to repay the debt. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to existing stockholders. We cannot provide assurance that any financing arrangements will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our business is subject to a strict regulatory environment. Existing laws and regulations and any future regulation may have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, we believe that our direct marketing programs meet existing requirements of the United States Federal Trade Commission. Any changes to FTC requirements or changes in our direct or other marketing practices, however, could result in our marketing practices failing to comply with FTC regulations. Our increasing dependence on ACH billing has exposed us to greater scrutiny by the National Automated Clearing House Association, or NACHA. As a result, we could be subject to substantial liability in the future, including fines and criminal penalties, preclusion from offering certain products or services, and the prevention or limitation of certain marketing practices. We may be unable to promote and maintain our brands. We believe that establishing and maintaining the brand identities of our Internet Yellow Pages services is a critical aspect of attracting and expanding a base of advertisers and users. Promotion and enhancement of our brands will depend largely on our success in continuing to provide high quality service. If advertisers and users do not perceive our existing services to be of high quality, or if we introduce new services or enter into new business ventures that are not favorably received by advertisers and users, we will risk diluting our brand identities and decreasing their attractiveness to existing and potential IAP advertisers. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our success depends both on our internally developed technology and our third party technology. We rely on a variety of trademarks, service marks, and designs to promote our brand names and identity. We also rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures, and trademark, copyright, trade secrecy, unfair competition, and other intellectual property laws to protect the proprietary aspects of our products and services. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of the protection of certain intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property and may not prevent our competitors from gaining access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that courts will always uphold our intellectual property rights or enforce the contractual arrangements that we have entered into to protect our proprietary technology. 17 Table of Contents Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress, and other proprietary rights. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights, which may result in the dilution of the brand identity of our services. We may decide to initiate litigation in order to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial expense, may reduce our profits, and may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. Any such claim or litigation against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. In addition, such claims or litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: · cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; · obtain a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and · redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products or services to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and in any event could be costly and time-consuming. Even if we were to prevail, such claims or litigation could be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend, and could result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention. These expenses and diversion of managerial resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Capacity constraints may require us to expand our infrastructure and IAP advertiser support capabilities. Our ability to provide high-quality Internet Yellow Pages services largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. We may be required to expand our technology, infrastructure, and IAP advertiser support capabilities in order to accommodate any significant increases in the numbers of advertisers and users of our websites. We may not be able to project accurately the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our services or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases in a timely manner. If we do not expand and upgrade our infrastructure in a timely manner, we could experience temporary capacity constraints that may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, and lower levels of IAP advertiser service. Our inability to upgrade and expand our infrastructure and IAP advertiser support capabilities as required could impair the reputation of our brand and our services, reduce the volume of users able to access our website, and diminish the attractiveness of our service offerings to our advertisers. Any expansion of our infrastructure may require us to make significant upfront expenditures for servers, routers, computer equipment, and additional Internet and intranet equipment, as well as to increase bandwidth for Internet connectivity. Any such expansion or enhancement will need to be completed and integrated without system disruptions. An inability to expand our infrastructure or IAP advertiser service capabilities either internally or through third parties, if and when necessary, would materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Internet We may not be able to adapt as the Internet, Internet Yellow Pages services, and IAP advertiser demands continue to evolve. Our failure to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. The Internet, e-commerce, and the Internet Yellow Pages industry are characterized by: · rapid technological change; · changes in advertiser and user requirements and preferences; · frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies; and · the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing service offerings, technology, and hardware and software infrastructure obsolete. In order to compete successfully in the future, we must · enhance our existing services and develop new services and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective or current IAP advertisers; · license, develop or acquire technologies useful in our business on a timely basis; and · respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our future success may depend on continued growth in the use of the Internet. Because Internet Yellow Pages is a relatively new and rapidly evolving industry, the ultimate demand and market acceptance for our services will be subject to a high level of uncertainty. Significant issues concerning the commercial use of the Internet and online service technologies, including security, reliability, cost, ease of use, and quality of service, remain unresolved and may inhibit the growth of Internet business solutions that use these technologies. In addition, the Internet or other online services could lose their viability due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols required to handle increased levels of Internet activity, or due to increased governmental regulation. Our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected if the use of Internet Yellow Pages and other online services does not continue to grow or grows more slowly than we expect. We may be required to keep pace with rapid technological change in the Internet industry. In order to remain competitive, we will be required continually to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our existing services, which could require us to invest significant capital. If our competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing services, technologies, and systems may become obsolete. We may not have the funds or technical know-how to upgrade our services, technology, and systems. If we face material delays in introducing new services, products, and enhancements, our advertisers and users may forego the use of our services and select those of our competitors, in which event our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Regulation of the Internet may adversely affect our business. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services such as online Yellow Pages, federal, state, local, and foreign governments may adopt laws and regulations, or amend existing laws and regulations, with respect to the Internet and other online services. These laws and regulations may affect issues such as user privacy, pricing, content, taxation, copyrights, distribution, and quality of products and services. The laws governing the Internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where legislation has been enacted. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws, such as those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel, and taxation, apply to the Internet and Internet advertising and directory services. In addition, the growth and development of the market for electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws, both in the United States and abroad, that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business over the Internet. Any new legislation could hinder the growth in use of the Internet generally or in our industry and could impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our services, increase our cost of doing business, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain Internet domain names that we would like to have. We believe that our existing Internet domain names are an extremely important part of our business. We may desire, or it may be necessary in the future, to use these or other domain names in the United States and abroad. Various Internet regulatory bodies regulate the acquisition and maintenance of domain names in the United States and other countries. These regulations are subject to change. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names in all countries in which we plan to conduct business in the future. The extent to which laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights will be extended to protect domain names currently is not clear. We therefore may be unable to prevent competitors from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our domain names, trademarks, trade names, and other proprietary rights. We cannot provide assurance that potential users and advertisers will not confuse our domain names, trademarks, and trade names with other similar names and marks. If that confusion occurs, we may lose business to a competitor and some advertisers and users may have negative experiences with other companies that those advertisers and users erroneously associate with us. The inability to acquire and maintain domain names that we desire to use in our business, and the use of confusingly similar domain names by our competitors, could have a material adverse affect on our business, prospects, financial conditions, and results of operations in the future. Our business could be negatively impacted if the security of the Internet becomes compromised. To the extent that our activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information about our advertisers or users, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to minimize problems caused by security breaches. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches. Our failure to prevent these security breaches or a misappropriation of proprietary information may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Our technical systems could be vulnerable to online security risks, service interruptions or damage to our systems. Our systems and operations may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, penetration of our network by unauthorized computer users or “hackers,” natural disaster, and similar events. Preventing, alleviating, or eliminating computer viruses and other service-related or security problems may require interruptions, delays or cessation of service. We may need to expend significant resources protecting against the threat of security breaches or alleviating potential or actual service interruptions. The occurrence of such unanticipated problems or security breaches could cause material interruptions or delays in our business, loss of data, or misappropriation of proprietary or IAP advertiser-related information or could render us unable to provide services to our IAP advertisers for an indeterminate length of time. The occurrence of any or all of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents If we are sued for content distributed through, or linked to by, our website or those of our advertisers, we may be required to spend substantial resources to defend ourselves and could be required to pay monetary damages. We aggregate and distribute third-party data and other content over the Internet. In addition, third-party websites are accessible through our website or those of our advertisers. As a result, we could be subject to legal claims for defamation, negligence, intellectual property infringement, and product or service liability. Other claims may be based on errors or false or misleading information provided on or through our website or websites of our directory licensees. Other claims may be based on links to sexually explicit websites and sexually explicit advertisements. We may need to expend substantial resources to investigate and defend these claims, regardless of whether we successfully defend against them. While we carry general business insurance, the amount of coverage we maintain may not be adequate. In addition, implementing measures to reduce our exposure to this liability may require us to spend substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of our content to users. Risks Related to Our Securities Stock prices of technology companies have declined precipitously at times in the past and the trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading price of our common stock has fallen significantly over the past twelve months and investors could continue to experience losses in response to factors including the following, many of which are beyond our control: · decreased demand in the Internet services sector; · variations in our operating results; · announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors; · changes in expectations of our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · our failure to meet analysts’ expectations; · changes in operating and stock price performance of other technology companies similar to us; · conditions or trends in the technology industry; · additions or departures of key personnel; and · future sales of our common stock. Domestic and international stock markets often experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of companies with securities trading in those markets. These fluctuations, as well as political events, terrorist attacks, threatened or actual war, and general economic conditions unrelated to our performance, may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In the past, securities holders of other companies often have initiated securities class action litigation against those companies following periods of volatility in the market price of those companies’ securities. If the market price of our stock fluctuates and our stockholders initiate this type of litigation, we could incur substantial costs and experience a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, regardless of the outcome. This could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Certain provisions of Nevada law and in our charter may prevent or delay a change of control of our company. We are subject to the Nevada anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent Nevada corporations from engaging in a merger, consolidation, sales of its stock or assets, and certain other transactions with any stockholder, including all affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 10% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 10% or more of the corporation’s voting stock except in certain situations. In addition, our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws include a number of provisions that may deter or impede hostile takeovers or changes of control or management. These provisions include the following: · our board is classified into three classes of directors as nearly equal in size as possible, with staggered three year-terms; · the authority of our board to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of serial preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, and privileges of these shares, without stockholder approval; · all stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called meeting of stockholders and not by written consent unless such action or proposal is first approved by our board of directors; · special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President of our company; and · cumulative voting is not allowed in the election of our directors. These provisions of Nevada law and our articles and bylaws could prohibit or delay mergers or other takeover or change of control of our company and may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire us, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules as promulgated under the Exchange Act. In the event that no exclusion from the definition of “penny stock” under the Exchange Act is available, then any broker engaging in a transaction in our common stock will be required to provide its customers with a risk disclosure document, disclosure of market quotations, if any, disclosure of the compensation of the broker-dealer and its sales person in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market values of our securities held in the customer’s accounts. The bid and offer quotation and compensation information must be provided prior to effecting the transaction and must be contained on the customer’s confirmation of sale. Certain brokers are less willing to engage in transactions involving “penny stocks” as a result of the additional disclosure requirements described above, which may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to dispose of their shares. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. ITEM 