ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a substantial degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should give careful consideration to the following risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this report. The following risk factors, however, may not reflect all of the risks associated with our business or an investment in our common stock. The trading price of our common stock could decline significantly due to any of these risks and investors may lose all or part of their investments. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year that ended on September 30, 2011 and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business Uncertainty in the market for our products and services. The demand and market acceptance for our services may be subject to a high level of uncertainty. Our existing and future customers may not adopt or continue to use our Internet-base marketing services and other online services that we may offer in the future. Customers may find our Internet-based marketing services to be less effective for meeting their business needs than other methods of advertising and marketing. Our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations will be materially and adversely affected if we do not execute our strategy or our services are not adopted by a sufficient number of customers. We will incur operating losses and significant volatility in operations while we develop our new business segment. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, we incurred substantial operating losses as we transitioned our business toward our new strategic focus. We will continue to incur operating losses as we develop new business products which will be financed through existing cash on hand plus additional equity funding received December 12, 2011. While we believe our existing cash on hand, together with additional cash generated from operations or obtained from other sources, such other sources of cash possibly including stock issuances, loans and advances from our existing LEC clearing houses through their current advance programs or other forms of financing secured by or leveraged off our accounts receivable based on existing programs in place that are being offered to companies similar to ours, is sufficient to finance our operations for the next twelve months, there can be no assurance that we will achieve profitability or positive operating cash flows. To the extent that we cannot achieve profitability or positive operating cash flows, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Further, this new business segment is likely to experience significant volatility in its revenues, operating losses, personnel involved, products or services for sale, and other business parameters, as management implements its strategies and responds to operating results from this new business segment. We have historically incurred losses and expect to incur losses in the future, which may impact our ability to implement our business strategy and adversely affect our financial condition. We have a history of losses. We had a net loss of $5.5 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, and $7.5 million for the year ended September 30, 2010. We have significantly reduced our operating expenses by reviewing all expenses and improving operating efficiencies. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable or generate sufficient profits from operations in the future. If our revenue does not grow, we may experience a loss in one or more future periods. We may not be able to reduce or maintain our expenses in response to any decrease in our revenue, which may impact our ability to implement our business strategy and adversely affect our financial condition. We have sold a significant portion of our assets and customer list associated with our directory services business. During fiscal 2009, as part of our changing business strategy, we sold our primary URL, www.yp.com, as well as a portion of our customer list. Further, certain fulfillment contracts were terminated during the fiscal year 2009. These transactions will continue to result in a significant loss of future revenue which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the cessation of billing of the accounts subject to these sales or terminations of billing contracts during the fiscal year 2009, the reserves held by the LEC processors, and carried by us as accounts receivable, are no longer increasing as a result of continued billing for services provided to directory business customers. Further, the LEC processors continue to deduct their expenses from these reserves. We have made reasonable estimates of these potential expenses over the expected period of collection of these reserve amounts held-back by the LEC processors. However, it is possible that the actual expenses billed by the LEC processors in the future could vary significantly from the estimates made by the Company, thereby affecting the amounts collectible from the booked accounts receivable. The discontinuance of our classifieds and Direct Sales businesses could adversely impact our financial condition. In fiscal year 2009 we made the strategic decision to discontinue our classifieds business and product offerings which have historically generated a majority of our revenues and in December 2010 we made the strategic decision to discontinue our Direct Sales business. These discontinuances will continue to reduce our revenues that were generated from these product lines, particularly with respect to those customers who sought an integrated Yellow Pages and classifieds product. 8 If we fail to maintain the number of customers purchasing our monthly subscription products, our revenue and our business could be harmed. Our monthly subscription customers do not have long-term obligations to purchase our products or services and many will cancel their subscriptions each month. As a result of this customer churn, we must continually add new monthly subscription customers to replace customers who cancelled and to grow our business beyond our current customer base. We face intense competition, including from companies with greater resources, which could adversely affect our growth and could lead to decreased revenues. Search engine optimization and online marketing services are emerging fields with a considerable amount of competitors in each field. Additionally, major Internet companies, including Google, Microsoft, Verizon, and Yahoo!, currently market Internet Yellow Pages, local search services and other products that directly compete with our legacy business as well as our new product offerings. We may not compete effectively with existing and potential competitors for several reasons, including the following: § some competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial and other resources than we have and are in better financial condition than we are; § some competitors have better name recognition, as well as larger, more established, and more extensive marketing, customer service, and customer support capabilities than we have; § some competitors may be able to better adapt to changing market conditions and customer demand; and § barriers to entry are not significant. As a result, other companies that are not currently may enter the market or develop technology that reduces the need for our services. Increased competitive pressure could lead to reduced market share, as well as lower prices and reduced margins, for our services. If we experience reductions in our revenue for any reason, our margins may continue to decline, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. Many of our competitors have greater capital resources than we have. These capital resources could allow our competitors to engage in advertising and other promotional activities that will enhance their brand name recognition at levels we cannot match. The LECs and national search engines also have advantages in terms of brand name recognition. Our business is subject to a strict regulatory environment. Like many companies, we are subject to existing and potential government regulation. There are, however, comparatively few laws or regulations specifically applicable to Internet businesses. Accordingly, the application of existing laws to Internet businesses, including ours, is unclear in many instances. There remains significant legal uncertainty in a variety of areas, including, but not limited to: user privacy, the positioning of sponsored listings on search results pages, defamation, taxation, the provision of paid-search advertising to online gaming websites, the legality of sweepstakes, promotions and gaming websites generally, and the regulation of content in various jurisdictions. Compliance with federal laws relating to the Internet and Internet businesses may impose upon us significant costs and risks, or may subject us to liability if we do not successfully comply with their requirements, whether intentionally or unintentionally. Specific federal laws that impact our business include The Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, The Communications Decency Act of 1996, The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 (including related Federal Trade Commission regulations), The Protect Our Children Act of 2008, and The Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986, among others. For example, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which is in part intended to reduce the liability of online service providers for listing or linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe the rights of others, was adopted by Congress in 1998. If we violate the Digital Millennium Copyright Act we could be exposed to costly and time-consuming copyright litigation. There are a growing number of legislative proposals before Congress and various state legislatures regarding privacy issues related to the Internet generally, and some of these proposals apply specifically to paid-search businesses. We are unable to determine if and when such legislation may be adopted. If certain proposals were to be adopted, our business could be harmed by increased expenses or lost revenue opportunities, and other unforeseen ways. We anticipate that new laws and regulations affecting us will be implemented in the future. Those new laws, in addition to new applications of existing laws, could expose us to substantial liabilities and compliance costs. Our utilization of ACH billing exposes us to review by the National Automated Clearing House Association, or NACHA. Future actions from these and other regulatory agencies could expose us to substantial liability in the future, including fines and criminal penalties, preclusion from offering certain products or services, and the prevention or limitation of certain marketing practices. 9 Our future results of operations may be subject to fluctuation as a result of seasonality. In particular, we expect our results of operations for the fourth quarter may demonstrate seasonal weakness because a larger portion of online consumer traffic and advertising is typically focused on holiday gift purchases and there is less advertising for locally-focused services during this quarter. Additionally, as other advertisers significantly increase their bid prices to acquire traffic for the holiday season, we generally keep our bid prices consistent throughout the year, resulting in less traffic to our websites from our SEM efforts. Online consumer traffic will also be lower due to increased holidays and vacation time during this quarter. We generally see an increase in revenue during the first quarter, when we expect to benefit from a higher volume of locally-focused traffic and a higher volume of online consumer traffic due to fewer holidays and vacation time. Our success depends upon our ability to establish and maintain relationships with our customers. Our ability to generate revenue depends upon our ability to maintain relationships with our existing customers, to attract new customers to sign up for revenue-generating services, and to generate traffic to our customers’ websites. We primarily use telemarketing efforts to attract new customers. These telemarketing efforts may not produce satisfactory results in the future. We attempt to maintain relationships with our customers through customer service and delivery of traffic to their businesses. An inability to either attract additional customers to use our service or to maintain relationships with our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not introduce new or enhanced offerings to our customers, we may be unable to attract and retain those customers, which would significantly impede our ability to generate revenue. We will need to introduce new or enhanced products and services in order to attract and retain customers and to remain competitive. Our industry has been characterized by rapid technological change, changes in advertiser and user requirements and preferences, and frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies. These changes could render our technology, systems, and website obsolete. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent us from introducing new products and services. If we do not periodically enhance our existing products and services, develop new technologies that address our customers’ and users’ needs and preferences, or respond to emerging technological advances and industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis, our products and services may not be attractive to customers and users, which would significantly impede our revenue growth. In addition, our reputation and our brand could be damaged if any new product or service introduction is not favorably received. Our results of operations could fluctuate due to factors outside of our control. Our operating results have historically fluctuated significantly, and we have experienced recent declines in net revenues and operating profits. We could continue to experience fluctuations or continued declining operating results due to factors that may or may not be within our control. Such factors include the following: § fluctuating demand for our services, which may depend on a number of factors including: - changes in economic conditions and our customers’ profitability, - customer refunds or cancellations, and - our ability to continue to bill through existing means; § market acceptance of new or enhanced versions of our services or products; § price competition or pricing changes by us or our competitors; § new product offerings or other actions by our competitors; § the ability of our check processing service providers to continue to process and provide billing information; § the amount and timing of expenditures for expansion of our operations, including the hiring of new employees, capital expenditures, and related costs; § technical difficulties or failures affecting our systems or the Internet in general; § a decline in Internet traffic at our website; and § the fixed nature of a significant amount of our operating expenses. 10 The loss of our ability to bill customers through our ACH billing channel would adversely impact our results of operations. We bill a significant number of our Directory Services customers through our ACH billing channel. ACH transactions are closely regulated by NACHA – the National Automated Clearing House Association, which develops operating rules and business practices for the ACH network and for electronic payments in the areas of Internet commerce and other electronic payment means. Changes in these rules and business practices could compromise our ability to bill a significant number of our customers through ACH billing, and we would have to transition these customers to other billing channels. Such changes would be disruptive and could result in lost revenue. We depend upon our executive officers and key personnel. Our performance depends substantially on the performance of our executive officers and other key personnel. The success of our business in the future will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain, and motivate high quality personnel, especially highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. The loss of services of any executive officers or key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. While we have employment agreements with our executive officers no key man life insurance has been purchased on them. Competition for talented personnel is intense, and there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract, train, retain or motivate other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. In addition, market conditions may require us to pay higher compensation to qualified management and technical personnel than we currently anticipate. Any inability to attract and retain qualified management and technical personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We depend upon third parties to provide certain services and software, and our business may suffer if the relationships upon which we depend fail to produce the expected benefits or are terminated. We depend upon third-party software to operate certain of our services. The failure of this software to perform as expected would have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, although we believe that several alternative sources for this software are available, any failure to obtain and maintain the rights to use such software would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We also depend upon third parties to provide services that allow us to connect to the Internet with sufficient capacity and bandwidth so that our business can function properly and our websites can handle current and anticipated traffic. Any restrictions or interruption in our connection to the Internet would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to secure additional capital to expand our operations. Although we currently have no material long-term needs for capital expenditures, we will likely be required to make increased capital expenditures to fund our anticipated growth of operations, infrastructure, and personnel. We currently anticipate that our cash on hand as of September 30, 2011, together with cash flows from operations or obtained from other sources, such other sources of cash possibly including stock issuances, loans and advances from our existing LEC clearing houses through their current advance programs or other forms of financing secured by or leveraged off our accounts receivable based on existing programs in place that are being offered to companies similar to ours will be sufficient to meet our anticipated liquidity needs for working capital and capital expenditures over the next 12 months. In the future, however, we may seek additional capital through the issuance of debt or equity depending upon our results of operations, market conditions or unforeseen needs or opportunities. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the following: § the pace of expansion of our operations; § our need to respond to competitive pressures; and § future acquisitions of complementary products, technologies or businesses. Our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties and actual results could vary materially as a result of the factors described above. As we require additional capital resources, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities. Debt financing must be repaid at maturity, regardless of whether or not we have sufficient cash resources available at that time to repay the debt. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to existing stockholders. We cannot provide assurance that any financing arrangements will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our business is subject to a strict regulatory environment. Existing laws and regulations and any future regulation may have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, we believe that our direct marketing programs meet existing requirements of the United States Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”). Any changes to FTC requirements or changes in our direct or other marketing practices, however, could result in our marketing practices failing to comply with FTC regulations. 11 There can be no absolute assurance that the other states or other parties, which were not part of the above-mentioned state consortium, would not attempt to file similar claims against us in the future. However, we believe this risk is somewhat mitigated by the fact that those states did not join the states in filing complaints against us and the fact that we discontinued the use of our check activators. Our utilization of ACH billing exposes us to review by NACHA. Future actions from these and other regulatory agencies could expose us to substantial liability in the future, including fines and criminal penalties, preclusion from offering certain products or services, and the prevention or limitation of certain marketing practices. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our success depends both on our internally developed technology and our third party technology. We rely on a variety of trademarks, service marks, and designs to promote our brand names and identity. We also rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures, and trademark, copyright, trade secrecy, unfair competition, and other intellectual property laws to protect the proprietary aspects of our products and services. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of the protection of certain intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property and may not prevent our competitors from gaining access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that courts will always uphold our intellectual property rights or enforce the contractual arrangements that we have entered into to protect our proprietary technology. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress, and other proprietary rights. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights, which may result in the dilution of the brand identity of our services. We may decide to initiate litigation in order to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial expense, may reduce our profits, and may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. Any such claim or litigation against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. In addition, such claims or litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: § cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; § obtain a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and § redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products or services to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and in any event could be costly and time-consuming. Even if we were to prevail, such claims or litigation could be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend, and could result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention. These expenses and diversion of managerial resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Capacity constraints may require us to expand our infrastructure and advertiser support capabilities. Our ability to provide high-quality services largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. We may be required to expand our technology, infrastructure, and customer support capabilities in order to accommodate any significant growth in customers. We may not be able to project accurately the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our services or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases in a timely manner. Our inability to upgrade and expand our infrastructure and customer support capabilities as required could impair the reputation of our brand and our services and diminish the attractiveness of our service offerings to our customers. Any expansion of our infrastructure may require us to make significant upfront expenditures for servers, routers, computer equipment, and additional Internet and intranet equipment, as well as to increase bandwidth for Internet connectivity. Any such expansion or enhancement will need to be completed and integrated without system disruptions. An inability to expand our infrastructure or customer service capabilities either internally or through third parties, if and when necessary, would materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. 12 Current economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The U.S. and global economy is currently undergoing a gradual and extended recovery from a prolonged recession and a period of unprecedented volatility. It is unclear how prolonged this recovery will be and how it will affect our industry in particular. Many believe that the general future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. If the challenging economic conditions in the U.S. and other key countries persist or worsen, our customers may delay or reduce spending. This could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, longer sales cycles and increased price competition. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may have an adverse resolution of litigation that may harm our operating results or financial condition. At times, we are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural catastrophic events and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins and similar events. For example, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, and our insurance coverage will likely be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Our servers may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential intellectual property or client data. We may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in certain circumstances, such as natural disasters affecting the Las Vegas area, and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. As we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the Internet to conduct our business and provide high quality customer service, such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to run our business, which could have an adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. We have made strategic acquisitions and divestitures in the past few years and may complete similar transactions in the future and cannot assure you that any future transactions will be successful. We regularly look for opportunities to support our new business strategy through appropriate acquisitions, divestitures and/or strategic alliances. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying appropriate transaction partners or integrating the results of any such transactions in a way that ultimately supports our business strategy. Any such transactions could also involve the dilutive issuance of equity securities and/or the incurrence of debt. In addition, future strategic transactions may involve numerous other risks, including but not limited to: § exposure to unanticipated liabilities of an acquired company (or acquired assets); § the potential loss of key customers or key personnel in connection with, or as the result of, a transaction; § the recording of goodwill and intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges; § the diversion of the attention of our management team from other business concerns, including the day-to-day management of our Company and/or the internal growth strategies that they are currently implementing; and § the risk of entering into markets or producing products where we have limited or no experience, including the integration of the purchased technologies and products with our technologies and products. Risks Related to the Internet We may not be able to adapt as the Internet and customer demands continue to evolve. Our failure to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. The Internet, e-commerce, and the online marketing industry are characterized by: § rapid technological change; § changes in customer and user requirements and preferences; 13 § frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies; and § the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing service offerings, technology, and hardware and software infrastructure obsolete. In order to compete successfully in the future, we must: § enhance our existing services and develop new services and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective or current customers; § license, develop or acquire technologies useful in our business on a timely basis; and § respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. We may be required to keep pace with rapid technological change in the Internet industry. In order to remain competitive, we will be required continually to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our existing services, which could require us to invest significant capital. If our competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing services, technologies, and systems may become obsolete. We may not have the funds or technical knowledge to upgrade our services, technologies, and systems. If we face material delays in introducing new services, products, and enhancements, our customers and users may forego the use of our services and select those of our competitors, in which event our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Regulation of the Internet may adversely affect our business. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services such as online Yellow Pages, federal, state, local, and foreign governments may adopt laws and regulations, or amend existing laws and regulations, with respect to the Internet and other online services. These laws and regulations may affect issues such as user privacy, pricing, content, taxation, copyrights, distribution, and quality of products and services. The laws governing the Internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where legislation has been enacted. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws, such as those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel, and taxation apply to the Internet and Internet advertising and directory services. In addition, the growth and development of the market for electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws, both in the United States and abroad, that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business over the Internet. Any new legislation could hinder the growth in use of the Internet generally or in our industry and could impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our services, increase our cost of doing business, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain Internet domain names that we would like to have. We believe that our existing Internet domain names are an extremely important part of our business. We may desire, or it may be necessary in the future, to use these or other domain names in the United States and abroad. Various Internet regulatory bodies regulate the acquisition and maintenance of domain names in the United States and other countries. These regulations are subject to change. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names in all countries in which we plan to conduct business in the future. The extent to which laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights will be extended to protect domain names currently is not clear. We therefore may be unable to prevent competitors from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our domain names, trademarks, trade names, and other proprietary rights. We cannot provide assurance that potential users and customers will not confuse our domain names, trademarks, and trade names with other similar names and marks. If that confusion occurs, we may lose business to a competitor and some customers and users may have negative experiences with other companies that those customers and users erroneously associate with us. The inability to acquire and maintain domain names that we desire to use in our business, and the use of confusingly similar domain names by our competitors, could have a material adverse affect on our business, prospects, financial conditions, and results of operations in the future. Our business could be negatively impacted if the security of the Internet becomes compromised. To the extent that our activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information about our customers or users, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to minimize problems caused by security breaches. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches. Our failure to prevent these security breaches or a misappropriation of proprietary information may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. 14 Our technical systems could be vulnerable to online security risks, service interruptions or damage to our systems. Our systems and operations may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, penetration of our network by unauthorized computer users or “hackers,” natural disaster, and similar events. Preventing, alleviating, or eliminating computer viruses and other service-related or security problems may require interruptions, delays or cessation of service. We may need to expend significant resources protecting against the threat of security breaches or alleviating potential or actual service interruptions. The occurrence of such unanticipated problems or security breaches could cause material interruptions or delays in our business, loss of data, or misappropriation of proprietary or IAP advertiser-related information or could render us unable to provide services to our customers for an indeterminate length of time. The occurrence of any or all of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are sued for content distributed through, or linked to by, our website or those of our customers, we may be required to spend substantial resources to defend ourselves and could be required to pay monetary damages. We aggregate and distribute third-party data and other content over the Internet. In addition, third-party websites are accessible through our website or those of our customers. As a result, we could be subject to legal claims for defamation, negligence, intellectual property infringement, and product or service liability. Other claims may be based on errors or false or misleading information provided on or through our website or websites of our directory licensees. Other claims may be based on links to sexually explicit websites and sexually explicit advertisements. We may need to expend substantial resources to investigate and defend these claims, regardless of whether we successfully defend against them. While we carry general business insurance, the amount of coverage we maintain may not be adequate. In addition, implementing measures to reduce our exposure to this liability may require us to spend substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of our content to users. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a client’s data, our service may be perceived as not being secure and clients may curtail or stop using our service. Our service involves the storage and transmission of clients’ proprietary information, such as credit card and bank account numbers, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. Our payment services may be susceptible to credit card and other payment fraud schemes, including unauthorized use of credit cards, debit cards or bank account information, identity theft or merchant fraud. If our security measures are breached in the future as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our clients’ data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and clients. We are subject to a number of risks related to credit card payments we accept. If we fail to be in compliance with applicable credit card rules and regulations, we may incur additional fees, fines and ultimately the revocation of the right to use the credit card company, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A majority of our clients’ campaigns were paid for using a credit card or debit card. For credit and debit card payments, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating expenses and adversely affect our net income. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. We believe we are compliant with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which incorporates Visa’s Cardholder Information Security Program and MasterCard’s Site Data Protection standard. However, there is no guarantee that we will maintain such compliance or that compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payment system. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our clients. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would result in significantly higher credit card-related costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our revenue may be negatively affected if we are required to charge sales tax or other transaction taxes on all or a portion of our past and future sales to customers located in jurisdictions where we are currently not collecting and reporting tax. We generally do not charge, collect or have imposed upon us sales or other transaction taxes related to the products and services we sell, except for certain corporate level taxes and transaction level taxes outside of the United States. However, many states, local jurisdictions or one or more countries may seek to impose sales or other transaction tax obligations on us in the future. A successful assertion by any state, local jurisdiction or country in which we do business that we should be collecting sales or other transaction taxes on the sale of our products or services could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales, create increased administrative burdens or costs, discourage clients from purchasing products or services from us, decrease our ability to compete or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. The imposition of new laws requiring the collection of sales or other transaction taxes on the sale of our products or services (or the introduction of new products or services that are subject to existing transaction taxes) could create increased administrative burdens or costs, discourage clients from purchasing products or services from us, decrease our ability to compete or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. 15 Government regulation of the Internet is evolving, and unfavorable changes could substantially harm our business and operating results. We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth in use of the Internet and online services. The application of existing laws to the Internet and online services governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy has not yet been settled. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and operating results. Other laws and regulations that have been adopted, or may be adopted in the future, that may affect our business include those covering user privacy, data protection, spyware, “do not email” lists, access to high speed and broadband service, pricing, taxation, tariffs, patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, export of encryption technology, electronic contracting, click-fraud, acceptable content, search terms, lead generation, behavioral targeting, consumer protection, and quality of products and services. Any changes in regulations or laws that hinder growth of the Internet generally or that decrease the acceptance of the Internet as a communications, commercial and advertising medium could adversely affect our business. See also Part 1, Item 1A, “Risk Factors— If the technology that we currently use to target the delivery of online advertisements is restricted or becomes subject to regulation, our expenses could increase and we could lose clients.” Risks Related to Our Securities Stock prices of technology companies have declined precipitously at times in the past and the trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile over the past few years and investors could experience losses in response to factors including the following, many of which are beyond our control: § decreased demand in the Internet services sector; § variations in our operating results; § announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors; § changes in expectations of our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; § our failure to meet analysts’ expectations; § changes in operating and stock price performance of other technology companies similar to us; § conditions or trends in the technology industry; § additions or departures of key personnel; and § future sales of our common stock. Domestic and international stock markets often experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of companies with securities trading in those markets. These fluctuations, as well as political events, terrorist attacks, threatened or actual war, and general economic conditions unrelated to our performance, may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In the past, securities holders of other companies often have initiated securities class action litigation against those companies following periods of volatility in the market price of those companies’ securities. If the market price of our stock fluctuates and our stockholders initiate this type of litigation, we could incur substantial costs and experience a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, regardless of the outcome. This could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be developed or sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • our operating performance and the operating performance of similar companies; • the overall performance of the equity markets; • the number of shares of our common stock publicly owned and available for trading; • threatened or actual litigation; 16 • changes in laws or regulations relating to our solutions; • any major change in our board of directors or management; • publication of research reports about us or our industry or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; • large volumes of sales of our shares of common stock by existing stockholders; and • general political and economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for Internet-related companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management’s attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the recent distress in the financial markets has also resulted in extreme volatility in security prices. Certain provisions of Nevada law and in our charter may prevent or delay a change of control of our company. We are subject to the Nevada anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent Nevada corporations from engaging in a merger, consolidation, sales of its stock or assets, and certain other transactions with any stockholder, including all affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 10% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 10% or more of the corporation’s voting stock except in certain situations. In addition, our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws include a number of provisions that may deter or impede hostile takeovers or changes of control or management. These provisions include the following: § the authority of our board to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, and privileges of these shares, without stockholder approval; § all stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called meeting of stockholders and not by written consent unless such action or proposal is first approved by our board of directors; § special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President of our company; and § cumulative voting is not allowed in the election of our directors. These provisions of Nevada law and our articles and bylaws could prohibit or delay mergers or other takeover or change of control of our company and may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire us, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules as promulgated under the Exchange Act. In the event that no exclusion from the definition of “penny stock” under the Exchange Act is available, then any broker engaging in a transaction in our common stock will be required to provide its customers with a risk disclosure document, disclosure of market quotations, if any, disclosure of the compensation of the broker-dealer and its sales person in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market values of our securities held in the customer’s accounts. The bid and offer quotation and compensation information must be provided prior to effecting the transaction and must be contained on the customer’s confirmation of sale. Certain brokers are less willing to engage in transactions involving “penny stocks” as a result of the additional disclosure requirements described above, which may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to dispose of their shares. We have experienced difficulties maintaining compliance with applicable requirements for the continued listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market, and any future failure to comply with such requirements could result in the delisting of common stock from that trading market. During fiscal 2011, the Company fell out of compliance with certain requirements for the continued listing of its common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market, including the requirements that the Company maintain (i) at least 500,000 “publicly held” shares of common stock (i.e., shares not held by directors, officers or 10% stockholders), (ii) at least $2.5 million of stockholders’ equity and (iii) a market value of its “publicly held” shares of at least $1.0 million. As of the date of this filing, the Company has addressed all of those compliance issues, and on December 21, 2011, the Company received written notification from NASDAQ indicating that the Company’s securities will continue to be listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market based upon the Company’s compliance with the terms of a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel decision, which required the Company to evidence compliance with the applicable minimum stockholders’ equity requirement of $2.5 million by December 12, 2011. Accordingly, a NASDAQ hearing process that was initiated during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 is now closed. The Company is subject to further compliance monitoring by NASDAQ until November 30, 2012. 17 Notwithstanding the foregoing compliance issues, the Company’s common stock has been continuously listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market without interruption. In order to preserve its listing status, the Company must remain in compliance with all applicable NASDAQ listing requirements, including but not limited to the requirements described above. There can be no assurance that the Company will remain in compliance with such listing requirements, or that our common stock will continue to be traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market or any other market. For more information, refer to Note 17 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements, as well as our other filings with the SEC. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 