Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks set forth below may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results and cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere in our SEC filings. In addition to the risks set forth below, and the factors affecting specific business operations identified elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, there may also be risks of which we are currently unaware, or that we currently regard as immaterial based on the information available to us, that later may prove to be material . Risks Related To Our Business The pendency of our agreement to be acquired by VeriFone could have an adverse effect on our business. On November 17, 2010, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with VeriFone pursuant to which VeriFone will acquire Hypercom in an all-stock merger. The merger was approved by our stockholders on February 24, 2011 and is anticipated to close in the second half of 2011, subject to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. The announcement and pendency of the acquisition by VeriFone could cause disruptions in our business. For example, although VeriFone has committed per the terms of the merger agreement to fulfill any Hypercom customer agreements or purchase orders, to provide warranty service on Hypercom’s products and repair and maintenance for the longer of three years from the closing of the merger or as required by law, and to continue to support software applications, including the provision of bug fixes and updates for the longer of one year from the closing of the merger or as required by law, all at service levels consistent with Hypercom’s current business practices, customers may still delay, reduce or even cease making purchases from us until they determine whether the merger will affect our products and services, including, but not limited to pricing, performance or support. Furthermore, third-party intermediaries such as distributors, value-added resellers, ISOs and other distribution channel partners may give greater priority to products of our competitors until they determine whether the merger will affect our products and services or our relationship with them. Our relationships with our vendors, suppliers, and contract manufacturers may deteriorate. In addition, key personnel may depart for a variety of reasons including perceived uncertainty as to the affect of the merger on their employment. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, vendors, suppliers, contract manufacturers, and other employees. These disruptions may increase over time until the closing of the merger, and we cannot provide assurance that the merger will close in the second half of 2011, as currently as expected, if at all. VeriFone and Hypercom are subject to the securities and antitrust laws of the United States and the antitrust laws of any other jurisdiction in which the merger is subject to review. VeriFone and Hypercom may be unable to obtain in the anticipated timeframe, or at all, the regulatory approvals required to complete the merger. Governmental entities with which filings are made may seek regulatory concessions, including compliance with material restrictions or conditions, including the divestiture of portions of VeriFone’s or Hypercom’s business, as conditions for granting approval of the merger. These actions may have a material adverse effect on VeriFone or Hypercom or a material adverse effect on the combined business. Under the merger agreement, VeriFone and Hypercom have both agreed to use reasonable best efforts to complete the merger, including to gain clearance from antitrust and competition authorities and to obtain other required regulatory approvals. Under the merger agreement, VeriFone’s reasonable best efforts includes a requirement by VeriFone to dispose of businesses or assets that produced up to $124 million in revenues for VeriFone, Hypercom and their respective subsidiaries during the 2009 fiscal year if such disposition is reasonably necessary to gain clearance from antitrust and competition authorities. VeriFone and Hypercom anticipate that Hypercom’s U.S. business will be divested in connection with the merger. These actions or any other actions that may be required to obtain regulatory approval for the transaction may have a material adverse effect on VeriFone or Hypercom or a material adverse effect on the combined businesses. In addition to the required regulatory approvals, the merger is subject to a number of other conditions beyond either company’s control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. Neither VeriFone nor Hypercom can predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. Further, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the merger could cause the combined company not to realize some or all of the synergies that are expected to be achieved if the merger is successfully completed within its expected timeframe. - 16 - Table of Contents In addition, to the extent a prolonged delay in completing the planned merger creates uncertainty among users of Hypercom’s products and services, there could be an adverse effect on Hypercom’s results of operations, and quarterly revenue could be substantially below the expectations of market analysts which could cause a reduction in the stock price of Hypercom common stock. Such effects are likely to be exacerbated the longer the time period between the signing and the closing or any termination of the merger agreement. The merger agreement generally requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the merger, but includes certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of our business that could affect our ability to execute on our business strategies and attain our financial goals. In addition, the pendency of the acquisition by VeriFone and the completion of the conditions to closing could divert the time and attention of our management. All of the matters described above, alone or in combination, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and stock price. The failure to complete the merger with VeriFone could adversely affect our business and our stock price. We cannot provide assurance that the pending acquisition by VeriFone will be completed. If the pending acquisition is not completed, the share price of our common stock may drop to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that a transaction will be completed. On November 16, 2010, the day before the announcement of the pending merger, our stock’s closing price was $6.13. On November 17, 2010, following the announcement of the pending merger, our stock’s closing price was $7.13 and from November 17, 2010 through March 7, 2011 our stock’s closing price has ranged between $7.13 and $11.05. In addition, under certain circumstances specified in the merger agreement, we may be required to pay VeriFone a termination fee of approximately $12.2 million. Our costs related to the merger, such as legal fees, accounting fees and expenses of our financial advisors must be paid by us even if the merger is not completed, and we may be required to record as expenses in our statement of operations items related to the proposed merger that would otherwise be reflected on our balance sheets. Further, a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. We may not be able to find a partner willing to pay an equivalent or more attractive price for our stock than that which would be paid in the VeriFone merger. Further, any disruption to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the acquisition by VeriFone and from intensifying competition from our competitors, including any adverse change in our relationships with our customers, vendors, suppliers, contract manufacturers, and employees, could continue or accelerate in the event of a failed transaction. There can be no assurance that our business, these relationships or our financial condition, and our stock price, will not be adversely affected, as compared to the condition prior to the announcement of the merger, if the merger is not consummated. If completed, our merger with VeriFone may not achieve its intended results. We and VeriFone entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies relating to the combined business. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether our business is integrated with that of VeriFone in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, a decrease in the amount of revenue expected to be generated by the combined company, and diversion of management’s time and energy, and could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial results and prospects. International operations pose additional challenges and risks that if not properly managed could adversely affect our financial results. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we derived approximately 86.5% of our total net revenue outside of the U.S., principally in Europe, Asia-Pacific and Central and South America. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net revenue and operating income in the foreseeable future. In addition, all of our contract manufacturers are located outside of the U.S. Accordingly, we face numerous risks associated with conducting international operations, any of which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. These risks include the following: • changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; • various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses; • imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers; • political and economic instability; - 17 - Table of Contents • changes in local economic environments, including inflation, recession and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • inability to secure commercial relationships to help establish our presence in international markets; • inability to hire and train personnel capable of marketing, installing and integrating our products, and services, supporting customers and managing operations in foreign countries; • building our brand name and awareness of our products and services among foreign customers; • competition from existing market participants that may have a longer history in and greater familiarity with the foreign markets we enter; • extended payment terms and the ability to collect accounts receivable; • the ability to repatriate funds or transfer funds among our subsidiaries and between our subsidiaries and their parent entities; • complicated tax and regulatory schemes where failure to comply may result in fines, penalties or litigation; • complications associated with enforcing legal agreements in certain foreign countries, including, but not limited to, Brazil, China and developing countries; and • availability of qualified and affordable staff with which to manage our foreign operations. Additionally, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. Quarterly revenue and operating results can vary, depending on a number of factors. Our consolidated results of operations and financial position can vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which is not conducive to a predictable business or operating environment. Consequently, this can impact our overall business. The following factors impact our quarterly business operations and results: • variations in product mix, pricing and product cost, timing and size of fulfilled orders as a result of customer deferral or cancellation of purchases and/or delays in the delivery of our products and services; • accomplishment of certain performance parameters embedded in our service level agreements; • market demand for new product offerings and the timing of market launches for such offerings; • delays in the delivery of our products and services; • the type, timing and size of orders and shipments; • product returns and warranty claims; • development of new relationships and maintenance and enhancement of existing relationships with customers and strategic partners; • deferral of customer contracts in anticipation of product or service enhancements; • deferral of certain revenue or gross margin in accordance with U.S. GAAP requirements; • incremental costs incurred as a result of product quality and/or performance issues; • inventory obsolescence and write-downs related to product life cycles; • write-off of doubtful accounts receivable; - 18 - Table of Contents • variations in operating expenses, including research and development, selling, and general and administrative expenses; • lease portfolio risk adjustments and loss provisions; • restructuring activities; • employment and severance agreement charges; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • availability and cost of financing; • variations in income tax as a function of income recognition by tax jurisdiction; and • changing security standards or other technological changes. The loss of one or more of our key customers could significantly reduce our revenue and profits. We have derived, and believe that we may continue to derive, a significant portion of our net revenue from a limited number of large customers. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, our largest customer accounted for 10.6% of our net revenue, and our five largest customers accounted for 26.5% of our net revenue. In addition, our largest customer does substantial business with some of our most significant competitors. Our customers may buy less of our products or services, depending on their own technological developments, end-user demand for our products, internal budget cycles and market conditions. A major customer in one year may not purchase any of our products or services in another year, which may negatively affect our financial performance. If any of our large customers significantly reduces or delays purchases from us or if we are required to sell products to them at reduced prices or unfavorable terms, our revenue and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See “Item 1, Business — Sales and Distribution” for more information on our customer base. Our products may contain defects that may be difficult or even impossible to correct. Product defects could result in lost sales, additional costs and customer erosion. We offer technologically complex products that, when first introduced or released in new versions, may contain software or hardware defects that are difficult to detect and correct. The existence of defects and delays in correcting them could result in negative consequences, including the following: • delays in shipping products; • cancellation of orders; • additional warranty expense; • delays in the collection of receivables; • product returns; • the loss of market acceptance of our products; • claims against us; • diversion of research and development resources from new product development; and • write-downs of and creation of reserves against inventory in our possession or located at our contract manufacturers. Even though we test all of our products, defects may continue to be identified after products are shipped. In past periods, we have experienced various issues in connection with product launches, including the need to rework certain products and stabilize product designs. Correcting product defects can be a time-consuming, difficult and expensive task. Software errors may take several months to correct, and hardware errors may take even longer. - 19 - Table of Contents We or our third-party contract manufacturers may accumulate excess or obsolete inventory that could result in unanticipated price reductions and write downs and adversely affect our financial results. Managing the proper inventory levels for components and finished products is challenging. In formulating our product offerings, we have focused our efforts on providing to our customers products with greater capability and functionality, which requires us to develop and incorporate the most current technologies in our products. This approach tends to increase the risk of obsolescence for products and components we or our third-party contract manufacturers hold in inventory and may compound the difficulties posed by other factors that affect our inventory levels, including the following: • the need to maintain significant inventory of components that are in limited supply; • buying components in bulk for the best pricing; • responding to the unpredictable demand for products; • responding to customer requests for short lead-time delivery schedules; • failure of customers to take delivery of ordered products; and • product returns. In addition, we may in some cases have to reimburse, or incur other charges from, our third-party contract manufacturing partners for excess or obsolete inventory or unfulfilled, non-cancelable open purchase orders resulting from changes in product design or demand. If we accumulate excess or obsolete inventory, price reductions and inventory write-downs may result, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The total impact of excess and obsolete inventory, including inventory held by our third-party manufacturers, on our financial results was $4.3 million, $6.4 million, and $8.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Security is vital to our customers and therefore breaches in the security of transactions involving our products or services could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Protection against fraud is of key importance to the purchasers and end-users of our solutions. We incorporate security features, such as encryption software and secure hardware, into our solutions to protect against fraud in electronic payment transactions and to ensure the privacy and integrity of consumer data. Our solutions may be vulnerable to breaches in security in the security mechanisms, the operating system and applications or the hardware platform. Security vulnerabilities could jeopardize the security of information transmitted or stored using our solutions. In general, liability associated with security breaches of a certified electronic payment system belongs to the institution that acquires the financial transaction. We have not experienced any material security breaches affecting our business. However, if the security of our solutions is compromised, our reputation and marketplace acceptance of our solutions will be adversely affected, which would adversely affect our results of operations, and subject us to potential liability. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary technology, our competitors may develop products substantially similar to our products and use similar technologies, which may result in the loss of customers. We rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality, licensing and other contractual arrangements, to establish and protect the proprietary aspects of our products. Our efforts may result in only limited protection, and our competitors may develop, market and sell products substantially equivalent to our products, or utilize technologies similar to those used by us. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary technology, these third parties may be able to compete more effectively against us, which could result in the loss of customers and adversely affect our business. In addition, the legal systems of many foreign countries do not protect or honor intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the U.S. For example, in China, the legal system in general and the intellectual property regime in particular, is still in the development stage. It may be very difficult, time-consuming and costly for us to attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights in such jurisdictions. - 20 - Table of Contents Our products and other proprietary rights may infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, which may expose us to claims and litigation. Although we believe that our products do not infringe on any third party’s patents, from time to time we have become involved in claims and litigation involving patents or proprietary rights. Patent and proprietary rights litigation entails substantial legal and other costs, and diverts the attention of our management resources. There can be no assurance that we will have the necessary financial and other resources required to appropriately defend or prosecute our rights in connection with any such litigation. In the past, we have received third-party claims of infringement and may receive additional claims of infringement in the future. To date, such activities have not had a material adverse effect on our business and we have prevailed in litigation, obtained intellectual property or a license thereto on commercially acceptable terms or otherwise been able to modify any affected products or technology. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to prevail in any such actions, or that any intellectual property or license required for such products or technology would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or that we would be able to successfully modify our products or technology to negate claims of infringement. A disruption in our third-party manufacturers or suppliers would negatively impact our ability to meet customer requirements. We currently rely on third-party manufacturers, and in the future will increasingly rely on one or more original design manufacturers as part of our joint development manufacturing model, to co-design, co-develop, manufacture and assemble substantially all of our products and subassemblies. We also depend upon third-party suppliers to timely deliver components that are free from defects, competitive in functionality and cost, and in compliance with our specifications and delivery schedules. If we are unable to successfully manage our relationship with these third-party manufacturers, or if such manufacturers experience any significant disruption in their supply chain and manufacturing capabilities, or they experience economic, political and business issues that may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us, we may be unable to fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our use of third-party manufacturers reduces our direct control over product quality, manufacturing timing, yields, and costs. Disruption of the manufacture or supply of our products or components, or a third-party manufacturer’s or supplier’s failure to remain competitive in functionality, quality or price, could delay or interrupt our ability to deliver our products to customers on a timely basis, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The components used in our systems are purchased from outside sources. Certain components, such as semiconductors, wireless modules, and the like, are purchased from single suppliers. The failure of any such supplier to meet its commitment on schedule could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If a sole-source supplier were to go out of business or otherwise become unable to meet its supply commitments, the process of locating and qualifying alternate sources could take months, during which time our production could be delayed, and may, in some cases, require us to redesign our products and systems. Such delays and potential costly redesigns could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in delivery of products or product components due to general market conditions creating long lead times for certain components, such as semiconductors, as well as failures on the part of some of our suppliers to timely deliver upon our previously agreed to component orders. In addition, we have occasionally experienced, and may in the future experience, delivery of products of inferior quality from component suppliers and third-party manufacturers. Although alternate manufacturers and suppliers are generally available to provide our products and product components, the number of manufacturers or suppliers of some of our products and components is limited, and qualifying, and transitioning to, a replacement manufacturer or supplier would take a significant amount of time. Such delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are increasingly dependent on original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and third party logistics providers to design and manufacture our products and to fulfill orders for our products. We have a joint development manufacturing model in place with one or more original design manufacturers and we are dependent primarily on such manufacturers (each of which is a third party original design manufacturer for numerous companies) to co-design and co-develop the hardware platform for our products. As discussed above, we also depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture and fulfill our products. These supply chain partners are not committed to design or manufacture our products, or to fulfill orders for our products, on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. Also, from time to time, we may be required to add new supply chain partner relationships or new manufacturing or fulfillment sites to accommodate growth in orders or the addition of new products. It is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement new supply chain partner relationships and new manufacturing or fulfillment sites, and such additions increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed if we fail to effectively manage our supply chain partner relationships; if one or more of our future design manufacturers does not meet our development schedules; if one or more of our contract manufacturers experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing our products; or if one or more of our third party logistics providers experiences delays or disruptions or otherwise fails to meet our fulfillment schedules; or if we are required to add or replace design manufacturers, contract manufacturers, third party logistics providers or fulfillment sites. We may not be able to adequately manage costs related to overruns, delays or disruptions associated with the design and development of our products utilizing the joint development manufacturing model. In addition, these supply chain partners will have access to certain of our critical confidential information which could be susceptible to unauthorized disclosure. Moreover, all of our manufacturing is performed outside the U.S. and is, therefore, subject to risks associated with doing business in foreign countries and in foreign currencies. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 21 - Table of Contents We are subject to a complex system of domestic and foreign taxation and unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial results. We are subject to income and other taxes in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or in tax laws, or by material audit assessments, which could affect our financial results. In addition, the amount of taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our financial results. Furthermore, tax law changes in jurisdictions in which we conduct business could materially affect our financial results. We are responsible for charging end customers and remitting certain taxes in numerous international jurisdictions. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In the future, our determinations of tax liabilities may be subjected to audit by the tax authorities, which could result in changes to the estimates of such tax liabilities. We believe that we maintain adequate tax reserves to offset potential liabilities that may arise upon audit. Although we believe our tax estimates and associated reserves are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than the amounts established for tax contingencies. To the extent that such estimates ultimately prove to be inaccurate, the associated reserves would be adjusted resulting in our recording a benefit or expense in the period in which a final determination was made. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results. A substantial part of our business consists of sales to international customers and, as a result, the majority of our revenue and expenses related to our international operations are denominated in Euros and other non-U.S. Dollar currencies. Adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material impact on our financial results in the future, including our cash position. In addition, our balance sheet reflects non-U.S. Dollar denominated assets and liabilities, which can be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In the past, we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts intended to hedge our exposure to adverse fluctuations in exchange rates, but these hedging arrangements are not always effective, particularly in the event of imprecise forecasts of non-U.S. Dollar denominated assets and liabilities and such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly. Currently, we do not hedge against our entire foreign currency risk as it has become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. Accordingly, an adverse movement in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In the year ended December 31, 2010, we incurred a foreign currency loss of approximately $0.4 million, net of foreign currency transaction gains or losses. Furthermore, we utilize contract manufacturers in various international locations, including Malaysia, Germany, Brazil, Romania, China, and Tunisia. While the majority of our products are purchased from these manufacturers in U.S. Dollars, we also purchase some products in local currencies. Therefore, we may be impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. With our use of a joint development manufacturing model for the next generation of our products, we expect that a larger proportion of our manufacturing costs may be denominated in U.S. Dollars. Therefore, our financial results, including our cash position, could be impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates to a greater extent than in prior periods. Adverse resolution of litigation may adversely affect our business or financial results. We are party to litigation in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. See “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings” below for more information on our litigation. - 22 - Table of Contents Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees. The loss of the services of our senior management or other key employees could make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and achieve our business goals. The market for highly qualified and talented executives in our industry is very competitive and we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to replace these senior management members with equally-qualified executives in a timely and cost-effective manner, if at all. We also may be unable to retain existing management, sales personnel and development and engineering personnel that are critical to our success, which could result in harm to key customer relationships, loss of key information, expertise or know-how, and unanticipated recruitment and training costs. Shipments of electronic payment systems may be delayed by factors outside of our control, which can harm our relationships with our customers. The shipment of payment systems requires us or our manufacturers, distributors or other agents to obtain customs or other government certifications and approvals, and, on occasion, to submit to physical inspection of our systems in transit. Failure to satisfy these requirements, and the process of trying to satisfy them, can lead to lengthy delays in the delivery of our solutions to our customers, which may harm our relationships with our customers. While we believe we comply with environmental laws and regulations, we are still exposed to potential risks associated with them. We are subject to environmental, legal and regulatory requirements, including the RoHS Directive and the WEEE Directive. The RoHS Directive sets a framework for producers’ obligations in relation to manufacturing (including the amounts of named hazardous substances contained in products sold) and the WEEE Directive sets a framework for treatment, labeling, recovery and recycling of electronic products in the European Union, which may require us to alter the manufacturing of the physical devices that include our solutions and/or require active steps to promote recycling of materials and components. In addition, similar legislation has been enacted in China and could be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the U.S. If we do not comply with the RoHS Directive and the WEEE Directive, we may suffer a loss of revenue, be unable to sell in certain markets or countries, be subject to penalties and enforced fees and/or suffer a competitive disadvantage. Furthermore, the costs to comply with the RoHS Directive and the WEEE Directive, or with current and future environmental and worker health and safety laws, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, expenses and financial condition. Force majeure events, such as threats of terrorism, terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, civil, military and governmental unrest, health epidemics, fire, floods, and other acts of God may adversely affect the markets in which our common stock trades, our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Domestic and international threats of terrorism, terrorist attacks, wars, regional conflicts, natural disasters (including natural disasters that may increase in frequency as a result of the effects of climate change), and the like may cause instability in the global financial markets, and contribute to downward pressure on securities prices of U.S. publicly traded companies, such as us. Future terrorist activities or armed conflicts, epidemics, such as influenza, H1N1 (or swine) flu or bird flu, and pandemics could result in economic, political and other uncertainties that could adversely affect our revenue and operating results, and depress securities prices, including the price of our common stock. Such events may disrupt the global insurance and reinsurance industries, and adversely affect our ability to obtain or renew certain insurance policies, and may result in significantly increased costs of maintaining insurance coverage. Further, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at historical or acceptable levels for all of our facilities. Future terrorist activities, armed conflicts and epidemics could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chain and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. Such events could directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers (including sole-source suppliers) or customers in the U.S. and elsewhere. Our primary facilities include administrative, sales and research and development facilities in the U.S., Australia, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Latvia, Mexico, the Philippines, Spain, and the United Kingdom., and our manufacturing partners’ facilities in Malaysia, Germany, Brazil, Romania, Tunisia, and China. Acts of terrorism, wars and epidemics may make transportation of our supplies and products more difficult or cost prohibitive. China’s changing economic environment may impact our ability to grow our business in China. In recent years, the Chinese government has been reforming the economic system in China to increase the emphasis placed on decentralization and the utilization of market forces in the development of China’s economy. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth. However, any economic reform policies or measures in China may from time to time be modified or revised by the Chinese government. While we may be able to benefit from the effects of some of these policies, certain policies and other measures taken by the Chinese government to regulate the economy, such as relaxation of trade restrictions, could also have a significant negative impact on economic conditions in China that could result in an adverse impact on our business. In addition, although China is increasingly affording foreign companies and foreign investment enterprises established in China similar rights and privileges as Chinese domestic companies, special laws, administrative rules and regulations governing foreign companies and foreign investment enterprises in China may still place foreign companies at a disadvantage in relation to Chinese domestic companies and may adversely affect our competitive position. - 23 - Table of Contents Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system may adversely affect us. We conduct our business in China primarily through direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries incorporated in China and Hong Kong. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. Accordingly, our business may be affected by changes in China’s developing legal system. Many new laws and regulations covering general economic matters have been promulgated in China in recent years, and government policies and internal rules promulgated by governmental agencies may not be published in time, or at all. As a result, we may operate our business in violation of new rules and policies without having any knowledge of their existence. In addition, there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforcement of laws, rules and policies in China. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions have limited precedential value. Because many laws and regulations are relatively new and the Chinese legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform. Moreover, the relative inexperience of China’s judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation, and the interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political concerns. Finally, enforcement of laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement, or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. Any litigation in China may be protracted, have unexpected outcomes and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management’s attention. If we are unable to maintain the quality of our internal control over financial reporting, any unremediated material weaknesses could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information about our business, which could harm our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX 404”) requires that we establish and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. SOX 404 also requires us to include a management report of internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on management’s evaluation of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, we are able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. However, we cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting will remain effective in the future. Any future failure to maintain adequate internal control over our financial accounting and reporting could harm our operating results or could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial results or condition, which could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our common stock. Our business may be negatively affected by local or global economic conditions. The business and operating results of our products and services businesses have been and will continue to be affected by local and global economic conditions, including the recent credit market crisis, and, in particular, conditions in the banking sector and other major industries we serve. The current economic climate, the credit market crisis, particularly the increased difficulty in securing credit, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, and other challenges currently affecting the global economy could impact our ability to sell and our customers’ ability to make capital expenditures, thereby affecting their ability to purchase our products. Additionally, customers in the financial services sector, which has been severely impacted by the credit crisis, have consolidated in response to the crisis, which could further impact our business by reducing our customer base. Certain of our retail customers who have seen significant dampening of consumer demand could face increased financial pressures that could impact their capital expenditures. Also, although we believe that our cash flows from operations and other sources of liquidity, including borrowings available under our revolving credit facility or other financing options, will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations and our TeT acquisition debt requirement through the next 12 months, in the event that we require additional capital to fulfill our future business plans, we may need to obtain additional financing from third parties. In light of the recent global credit crisis, if we experience such a need for additional financing, we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing on advantageous terms or at all, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and long-term prospects. The extent of the impact of the recent global economic crisis depends on a number of factors, including the timing of the emergence of the U.S. and the global economy generally from the effects of the severe recession. If the global economic recession continues for a significant period or there is significant further deterioration in the global economy, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. - 24 - Table of Contents Our integration of future acquisitions we may make involves numerous risks. We may not be able to address these risks without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. We have in the past and may in the future make acquisitions and strategic investments in related businesses, technologies, products or services. Acquisitions and investments involve various risks such as the following: • the inability to assimilate the technologies, operations and personnel of the acquired business; • the potential disruption of our existing business, including the diversion of management attention and the redeployment of resources; • the loss of customers; • the possibility of our entering markets in which we have limited prior experience; • the loss of key employees of the acquired business; • the necessity to respond to and negotiate with local labor unions or other organized labor associations, which may cause delays with and obstacles to our implementation of business initiatives; and • the inability to obtain the desired strategic and financial benefits from the acquisition. Future acquisitions and investments could also result in substantial cash expenditures, potentially dilutive issuance of our equity securities, our incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related To The Industry The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, maturing, and subject to price erosion. The markets in which we operate are maturing and highly competitive. Increased competition from manufacturers or distributors of products similar to or competitive with ours, or from service providers that provide services similar to ours, could result in price reductions, extended terms, free services, lower margins and loss of market share. We expect to continue to experience significant and increasing levels of competition in the future. With respect to our products, we compete primarily on the basis of security, ease-of-use, product performance, price, features, quality, the availability of application software programs, the number of third-party network host and telecommunication system certifications we have obtained for our products and application programs, rapid development, release and delivery of software products, and customer support and responsiveness. Software products compete on the basis of security, functionality, scalability, price, quality and support. We often face additional competitive factors in foreign countries, including but not limited to preferences for national vendors, difficulties in obtaining required certifications, conformity with local government policies and trade practices, and compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Some of our competitors and potential competitors are more established, benefit from greater name recognition and have significantly greater resources than we do. Moreover, there are limited barriers to entry that could keep our competitors from developing products or services and technology similar to ours, or from selling competing products or services in our markets. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to lower our product or operating costs to effectively compete in these markets. We are subject to industry and technology changes and are dependent on development and market acceptance of new products. If we are unable to adequately respond to these changes and to market demands in a timely manner, our business will not be successful. The industry in which we operate is characterized by rapid changes in technology and numerous new product introductions. Our success depends to a large degree upon our continued ability to offer new products and services, and enhancements to our existing products and services, to meet changing market requirements, including conformity with applicable standards. The introduction of new products, services and technologies by third parties could have an adverse effect on the sales of our existing products, services and technologies. We cannot be certain of our ability to successfully: - 25 - Table of Contents • identify, develop, or manufacture new products, services and technologies in a cost effective manner; • market or support these new products, services and technologies on a timely and effective basis; • eliminate defects in new products and service offerings; • gain market acceptance for new products, services and technologies; or • respond to technological changes, new industry standards, and announcements of new products, services and technologies by competitors. Developing new products, services and technologies is a complex, uncertain process requiring innovation and accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. When changes to our products are announced, we will be challenged to manage possible shortened life cycles for existing products, continue to sell existing products and prevent customers from returning existing products. Our inability to respond effectively to any of these challenges may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We and our contract manufacturers are subject to extensive industry standards and government regulations. Our failure to properly comply with these standards and regulations could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to a substantial and complex array of industry driven standards and governmental regulation, both domestic and foreign, including, but not limited to: • industry standards imposed by EuroPay International, MasterCard International, VISA International, and others; • certification standards required for connection to certain public telecommunications networks; • U.S. Federal Communications Commission regulations; • Underwriters Laboratories’ regulations (or other similar regulations in countries in which we sell our products); • the WEEE and RoHS Directives in the European Union and other environmental laws, regulations and standards; • U.S. Department of Labor regulations and state labor laws (or other similar regulations in countries in which we have employees or manufacture our products); and • certification standards set by domestic processors. Our failure, either directly or through our third-party contract manufacturers and suppliers, to properly comply with these standards and regulations could result in lost product sales, significant costs associated with required remedial measures or production stoppages, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We are subject to potentially competitive threats from alternative payment technologies. Our hardware product sales have been historically predicated on the need for security within the POS terminal. Alternative payment technologies have arisen recently that can accept payments in the merchant or retailer’s physical store with or without a card and with varying degrees of security. Many of these payment alternatives leverage the enhanced capabilities and proliferation of Smartphones. Alternative forms of payment and payment acceptance that could prove disruptive include: • PayPal on the point-of-sale terminal; • numerous card reader attachments to Smartphones and tablet computers, including Square, Inc.’s magnetic stripe reader and Roam Data’s encrypting card reader; • virtual currencies such as Facebook Credits moving from the virtual world into the physical store; and • payment applications enabled by NFC-capable mobile phones. Should the need for security within the POS terminal lessen due to fewer payment transactions including the transmission of sensitive cardholder data, our inability to respond effectively to any of these alternative payment technologies may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. - 26 - Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Because the merger exchange ratio is fixed and the market price of VeriFone common stock may fluctuate, the price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future and you could lose the value of your investment in Hypercom common stock. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. When we or our competitors announce new products, services, or customer orders, change pricing policies, experience quarterly fluctuations in operating results, announce strategic relationships, acquisitions or dispositions, change earnings estimates, fail to maintain effective internal controls, restate financial results, incur litigation, experience government regulatory actions or suffer from generally adverse economic conditions, our stock price is often affected. Recently, companies similar to ours have experienced extreme price fluctuations, often for reasons unrelated to their performance. The volatility of our stock price may be accentuated during periods of low volume trading. In addition, upon completion of the merger with VeriFone, each share of common stock of Hypercom will be exchanged for 0.23 of a share of VeriFone common stock. The merger consideration will not change even if the market price of either or both the Hypercom common stock and VeriFone common stock fluctuates. Neither Hypercom nor VeriFone may withdraw from the merger, and Hypercom may not resolicit the vote of its stockholders, solely because of changes in the market price of shares of Hypercom common stock or VeriFone common stock or because of changes in the operating and financial performance of either company that do not amount to a material adverse effect, as defined in the merger agreement. The merger will not be completed until certain regulatory approvals have been obtained and other conditions have been satisfied or waived. In the interim period until completion of the merger, our common stock will likely trade in relation to the market price of VeriFone’s common stock. We cannot make assurances that the value of our common stock will not decline prior to the merger as a result of fluctuations in the value of VeriFone’s common stock. Stockholders may sell substantial amounts of Hypercom common stock on the public market, which is likely to depress the price of our common stock. Any substantial sales of Hypercom common stock on the public market by current stockholders may cause the market price of Hypercom common stock to decline. If our current stockholders sell Hypercom common stock in the public market prior to the merger, it is likely that arbitrageurs will acquire those shares. These arbitrageurs will likely sell all those shares on the public market immediately following any announcement, or anticipated announcement, that the merger with VeriFone failed, or will likely fail, to close for regulatory or other reasons, which, in turn will likely cause the market price of Hypercom common stock to decline. In addition to the other negative effects on Hypercom, those sales of Hypercom common stock might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future if the merger with VeriFone is not completed. Our stockholders will have a significantly reduced ownership and voting interest after the merger and will exercise less influence over management. Immediately after the completion of the merger, it is expected that former Hypercom stockholders, who collectively own 100% of Hypercom, will own approximately 12.8% of VeriFone, based on the number of shares of Hypercom and VeriFone common stock, including restricted stock, outstanding as of December 28, 2010. Consequently, Hypercom stockholders will have less influence over the management and policies of VeriFone than they currently have over the management and policies of Hypercom. We have incurred significant losses recently and in the past and our results of operations have and may continue to vary from quarter to quarter, impacted in particular by business reviews performed by management. If our financial performance is not in line with investor expectations, the price of our common stock will suffer and our access to future capital may be impaired. We had net income of $6.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and net losses of $6.9 million and $85.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, and 2008, respectively. If the results of our continuing efforts to improve profitability, increase our cash flow and strengthen our balance sheet do not meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock will suffer. - 27 - Table of Contents Further, given the variability in our revenue, our quarterly financial results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to do so in the future. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may be misleading and not indicative of future performance. If our quarterly financial results fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock may suffer. Our publicly-filed reports are reviewed by the SEC from time to time and any significant changes required as a result of such review may have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements and to enhance the overall effectiveness of companies’ public filings, and comprehensive reviews of such reports are now required at least every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. SEC reviews may be initiated at any time. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports and all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published SEC rules and regulations, we could be required to modify or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. We are subject to anti-takeover effects of certain charter and bylaw provisions and Delaware law that may discourage a third party from acquiring us and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain anti-takeover provisions, including those that: • make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, and discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us; • may limit the price some investors are willing to pay for our common stock; • enable us to issue preferred stock without a vote of our stockholders or other stockholder action; • provide for a classified Board of Directors (the “Board”) and regulate nominations for the Board; • make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain corporate actions; and • may delay or prevent a change of control. In addition, certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”) to which we are subject, including Section 203 of the DGCL, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of Hypercom. Section 203 of the DGCL provides, with certain exceptions, for waiting periods applicable to business combinations with stockholders owning at least 15% and less than 85% of the voting stock (exclusive of stock held by directors, officers and employee plans) of a company. Also, on September 29, 2010, the Board adopted the stockholder rights plan. Generally, the stockholder rights plan provides that if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock, subject to certain exceptions and under certain circumstances, the rights may be exchanged by us for common stock or the holders of the rights, other than the acquiring person or group, could acquire additional shares of our capital stock at a discount off of the then current market price. Such exchanges or exercise of rights could cause substantial dilution to a particular acquirer and discourage the acquirer from pursuing our company. The mere existence of a stockholder rights plan often delays or makes a merger, tender offer or proxy contest more difficult. Our Board of Directors has taken action to render the stockholder rights plan inapplicable to the merger with VeriFone through an amendment to the stockholders’ rights plan. The above factors, as well as other provisions of our charter documents, may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of Hypercom, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. As a result, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. - 28 - Table of Contents Our stock price could be affected because a substantial number of shares of our common stock will be available for sale in the future. As of March 7, 2011, we had 56,377,663 shares of our common stock outstanding, all of which have been listed for trading according to the rules of the NYSE. We also had outstanding, as of March 7, 2011, options and warrants to acquire an additional 4,048,033 and 10,544,000 shares, respectively, of our common stock. All of the shares underlying the outstanding options and warrants have been registered for resale. Future public sales of our common stock, or the availability of such shares for sale, including the shares subject to outstanding options and warrants, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. The issuance of warrants to purchase common stock as part of the TeT acquisition could result in a lowering of our stock price. In accordance with the terms of our credit agreement with Francisco Partners II, L.P. (“Francisco Partners”), upon funding of the loan and the closing of the TeT acquisition on April 1, 2008, we granted Francisco Partners a five-year warrant to purchase approximately 10.5 million shares of our common stock at $5.00 per share. The warrant contains a cashless exercise provision. We have also filed a registration statement covering the shares of common stock underlying the warrant. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market (or the perception that these sales could occur) if the warrant is exercised once our common stock is trading above the warrant exercise price of $5.00 per share. Any such sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Any issuance of common stock to the warrant holder upon exercise of the warrant would dilute the then-current common stockholders’ interests in our company. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. While we may declare dividends at some point in the future, we cannot assure you that you will ever receive cash dividends as a result of ownership of our common stock and any gains from investment in our common stock may only come from increases in our stock prices, if any. Risks Related To Our Indebtedness and Merger Agreement We are subject to various covenants and restrictions that limit the discretion of management in operating our business and could prevent us from engaging in some activities that may be beneficial to us and our stockholders. The agreements governing our financing, including our $60.0 million credit agreement to partially fund the TeT acquisition and our $25.0 million revolving credit facility, and our merger agreement with VeriFone, contain various covenants and restrictions that, in certain circumstances, limit our ability and the ability of certain subsidiaries to: • grant liens on assets; • make restricted payments (including paying dividends on capital stock or redeeming or repurchasing capital stock); • make investments (including investments in joint ventures); • merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; • incur additional debt; or • engage in certain transactions with affiliates. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we may be limited in how we conduct our business and may be unable to raise additional debt, compete effectively, make investments or pursue available business opportunities. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness or termination of the VeriFone merger agreement. If a default occurs under our debt agreements, the affected lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. - 29 - Table of Contents We may be required to incur additional debt to meet the future capital requirements of our business. Should we be required to incur additional debt, the restrictions imposed by the terms of our current and future debt arrangements could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to respond to changes in our business. If we incur additional debt, we may be subject to the following risks: • our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions and competitive pressures may be heightened; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited; • we may be sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates if any of our debt obligations are subject to variable interest rates; and • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired. We cannot be assured that our leverage and such restrictions will not materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. In addition, we cannot be assured that additional financing, to the extent permitted under our existing covenants, will be available when required or, if available, will be on terms satisfactory to us. The current condition of the credit markets may not allow us to secure financing for potential future activities on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our existing cash and short-term investments are available for operating requirements, strategic investments, acquisitions of companies or products complimentary to our business, the repayment of outstanding indebtedness, repurchases of our outstanding securities and other potential large-scale needs. While we believe existing cash and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations, should be sufficient to meet operating requirements for the foreseeable future, we may also consider, to the extent permitted under our existing covenants, incurring additional indebtedness and issuing additional debt or equity securities in the future to fund potential acquisitions or investments, to refinance existing debt or for general corporate purposes. As a result of recent subprime loan losses and write-downs, as well as other economic trends in the credit markets, we may not be able to secure additional financing for future activities on satisfactory terms, or at all, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 