Item 1A. RISK FACTORS General economic conditions, either national or in the markets where the Company operates, may become unfavorable. The Company is affected by general economic conditions in the United States and, in particular, the markets in which it operates. An economic downturn within the Company’s markets or the nation as a whole could negatively impact household and corporate incomes. This impact may lead to decreased demand for both loan and deposit products and increase the number of customers who fail to pay interest or principal on their loans. Due to the limited number of markets in which the Company operates, it is less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. If the Company does not adjust to rapid changes in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer. The Company’s ability to deliver strong financial performance and returns on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its ability to expand the scope of available financial services offerings to meet the needs and demands of its customers. In addition to the challenge of competing against other banks in attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, the Company’s competitors also include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, specialty finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services that may include services that banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past. The increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, could adversely impact the Company or the businesses in which the Company is engaged. The Company is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its operations. Laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact the Company or its ability to increase the value of its business. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against the Company could cause it to devote significant time and resources to defending itself and may lead to penalties that materially affect the Company and its shareholders. Future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement could be materially adverse to the Company and its shareholders. The Company is exposed to operational risk. Similar to any corporation, the Company is exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. 11 Negative public opinion can result from the Company’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract and keep customers and can expose it to litigation and regulatory action. Given the volume of transactions at the Company, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. The Company’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. The Company is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as is the Company) and to the risk that the Company’s (or its vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Changes in interest rates could affect the Company’s income and cash flows. The Company’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the Federal Reserve). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The impact of these changes may be magnified if the Company does not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. Fluctuations in these areas may adversely affect the Company and its shareholders. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. The preparation of the Company’s financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. Two of the Company’s most critical estimates are the level of the allowance for credit losses and the valuation of certain assets, including available-for-sale investment securities and real estate owned. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, the Company cannot provide absolute assurance that it will not significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance, nor that it will not recognize a significant loss or impairment of its investment securities and real estate owned assets. For more information on the sensitivity of these estimates, refer to the Critical Accounting Policies and Judgments section of Part II. 12 The Company’s stock price may fluctuate. The Company’s stock price is publicly traded and, therefore, several factors exist that could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include: • actual or anticipated variations in earnings; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections regarding bank stocks; • the Company’s announcements of developments related to its businesses; • operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers; • new technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors; • news reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry; and • the low transaction volume of the Company’s stock. The Company’s stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to the Company’s performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of its common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Even though the Company’s common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market’s Global Market, it has less liquidity than the average stock quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in the Company’s common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Market or the stock exchanges. Because of this, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. Additionally, volatility of the stock price may occur on relatively small trading volumes of the Company’s stock. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of its common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of the common stock. The Company can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of its common stock to decline or impair The Company’s future ability to raise capital through sales of its common stock. 13 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments currently outstanding. 