Item 1A. RISK FACTORS This Report, including the Financial Supplement, contains, and our other public communications may contain, projections or other “forward-looking” information, that is, information related to future, not past, events. Such information generally includes the words “believes,” “plans,” “intends,” “targets,” “will,” “expects,” “anticipates,” or similar expressions and includes all statements regarding our Chapter 11 proceeding (including the pro forma financial statements included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”), expected financial position, results of operations, cash flows, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, capital and other expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities for existing products, benefits from new technology and cost reduction initiatives, plans and objectives of management and markets for securities. For these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Like other businesses, we are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our projections or that could cause other forward-looking information to prove incorrect. Factors that could cause actual events to materially differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements include those factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further, our reported results should not be considered as an indication of our future performance. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our projections and forward-looking information, which speak only as of the date thereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the projections and forward-looking information contained in this document, or to update them to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this document. In addition to general economic, business and market conditions, we are subject to other risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, the following: COMPANY RISKS The outcome of our Chapter 11 cases could result in the substantial dilution or cancellation of Grace’s currently outstanding common stock. The outcome of our Chapter 11 cases depends primarily upon the resolution of our asbestos-related and other contingent liabilities. The Bankruptcy Court has agreed to a process for estimating our asbestos-related liabilities, which estimate would form the basis for a plan of reorganization that we expect would provide for the funding of a trust to which all pending and future asbestos-related claims would be channeled. If the amount of asbestos-related liabilities, as determined through estimation or otherwise, and other liabilities exceeds assets available for funding, then we likely would issue additional shares of Grace common stock to satisfy such liabilities. The number of shares to be issued could substantially dilute the interests of current shareholders or result in a recapitalization of Grace that would cancel the shares of current shareholders and issue new shares to asbestos and other creditors. Because of this risk of 22 substantial dilution or cancellation, the value of Grace common stock is highly speculative and any investment in Grace common stock poses a high degree of risk. Our proposed plan of reorganization provides for substantial dilution of the ownership interests of holders of currently outstanding Grace common stock. An alternative plan that has been filed with the bankruptcy court provides for cancellation of these ownership interests with the result that outstanding Grace common stock would likely become worthless. Our proposed plan of reorganization provides that the interests of current holders of Grace common stock would be subject to substantial dilution by additional Grace securities that may be issued under the plan. The proforma financial information included under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Proforma Financial Information” reflects the accounting effects of our proposed plan as if it were in effect on the dates and for the periods set forth therein. If our plan is not confirmed or, if confirmed, if its provisions are materially different from those proposed, the proforma financial information will change. Our plan is subject to the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including a determination by the bankruptcy court that the maximum amount that we and other parties would be required to contribute to a trust for the benefit of asbestos personal injury and property damage claimants does not exceed $1,613 million, and that assets from settlement agreements with Cryovac, Inc. and Fresenius Medical Care Holdings, Inc. would be available to fund our liabilities. On November 5, 2007, the committee representing asbestos personal injury claimants and the legal representative of future asbestos claimants filed an alternative plan of reorganization with the bankruptcy court that provides for the cancellation of the ownership interests of holders of currently outstanding Grace common stock. This plan is subject to the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including a determination by the bankruptcy court that the value of all pending and future asbestos-related personal injury claims is at least $4.0 billion, and assumes that assets from settlement agreements with Cryovac, Inc. and Fresenius Medical Care Holdings, Inc. would be available to fund our liabilities. No documents supporting this plan have been filed and the plan was not accompanied by a disclosure statement or other information that would permit a comprehensive anlysis of its financial implications. Proforma financial information is not available with respect to this plan. Neither plan of reorganization may be ultimately approved by the bankruptcy court and other interested parties. No party currently has exclusive rights to propose a plan of reorganization and solicit votes thereon, so any party-in-interest can propose a competing plan of reorganization at any time. Further, the proponents of the filed plans of reorganization are free to amend their respective plans at any time. As a result, a plan of reorganization that is materially different from the two that have been filed may ultimately be approved and, under the ultimate plan of reorganization, the interests of the holders of Grace common stock may be substantially diluted or cancelled. As a result, the value of Grace common stock is highly speculative and any investment in Grace common stock poses a high degree of risk. 23 The bankruptcy process may disrupt our business. We have attempted to minimize the adverse effect of our Chapter 11 reorganization on our relationships with our employees, suppliers, customers and other parties. Nonetheless, as our reorganization becomes more protracted, our relationships with our customers, suppliers and employees may be adversely impacted and our operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the continuation of our reorganization could negatively affect our ability to attract new employees and retain existing high performing employees. Chapter 11 limits the flexibility of our management team in running our business. While we operate our businesses as debtor-in-possession under supervision by the bankruptcy court, we are required to obtain the approval of the bankruptcy court prior to engaging in activities or transactions outside the ordinary course of business. For example, our strategic plan includes the acquisition of businesses in the specialty chemicals industry. Such acquisitions generally require bankruptcy court approval. Bankruptcy court approval of non-ordinary course activities entails preparation and filing of appropriate motions with the bankruptcy court, negotiation with the various creditors’ committees and other parties in interest and one or more hearings. The various creditors’ committees and other parties in interest may be heard at any bankruptcy court hearing and may raise objections with respect to these motions. This process delays major decisions and limits our ability to respond quickly to opportunities and events in the marketplace. Furthermore, in the event the bankruptcy court does not approve a proposed activity or transaction, we would be prevented from engaging in activities and transactions that we believe are beneficial to Grace. We may not be able to collect all asbestos-related insurance payments that may be due to us. We have insurance coverage for a portion of the asbestos-related claims against us. We estimate that, assuming an ultimate payout of asbestos-related claims equal to the $1,700 million of asbestos-related liabilities recorded on our balance sheet, we should be entitled to approximately $500 million of insurance recovery. Accordingly, our December 31, 2007 balance sheet includes a long-term asset for estimated asbestos-related insurance of $500 million. Although this amount pertains only to insurance carriers with which we have asbestos settlement agreements, and/or which are currently solvent, we cannot be sure that all these amounts will be collected. We have entered into a settlement agreement with an underwriter of a portion of our excess insurance coverage. The insurer funded an escrow account for the benefit of the holders of claims that currently holds approximately $94.8 million, including interest earned on the account. The settlement agreement provides that unless we confirm a plan of reorganization by December 31, 2008, at the option of the insurer, the escrow amount with interest must be returned to the insurer. The timing and amount of future payments from our insurers depends on their continued solvency and the resolution of disputes regarding coverage under the insurance policies as well as the nature and 24 timing of actual claims paid. Because of the significance of our future asbestos-related payments, the receipt of timely and complete payments from our insurers will be important to the success of our reorganization. Grace is currently under criminal indictment in connection with our former vermiculite mining and processing activities in Libby, Montana. Along with seven former senior level employees (one of whom is now deceased), Grace has been indicted in connection with our former vermiculite mining and processing activities in Libby, Montana. The indictment accuses Grace and the co-defendants of conspiracy to violate environmental laws and obstruct federal agency proceedings, violations of the federal Clean Air Act, and obstruction of justice. The case is currently stayed pending the resolution of an expected appeal by Grace to the U.S. Supreme Court of certain pre-trial rulings in favor of Grace that were reversed by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. According to the U.S. Department of Justice, Grace could be subject to fines in an amount equal to twice the after-tax profit earned from our Libby operations or twice the alleged loss suffered by Libby victims, plus additional amounts for restitution to victims. The indictment alleges that our after-tax profits were $140 million. Grace has categorically denied any criminal wrongdoing and intends to vigorously defend itself at trial. We are unable to assess whether the indictment or any conviction will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition or affect our bankruptcy proceedings. However, we expect that legal fees for Grace’s defense and that of our current and former employees could range from $3 million to $4 million per quarter while the appeal is pending. We are subject to environmental clean-up fines, penalties and damage claims that have been and continue to be costly. Grace is subject to lawsuits and regulatory actions, in connection with current and former operations, for breaches of environmental laws that seek clean-up or other remedies. For example, a federal court has ruled that Grace is responsible for reimbursing the government for $54.5 million (plus interest) in costs expended through December 2001 and for all appropriate future clean-up costs with respect to our former vermiculite mining and processing activities in Libby, Montana. The State of New Jersey is seeking civil penalties for alleged misrepresentations and false statements made in an official filing in connection with the closing of a former plant in New Jersey. Grace is also subject to other lawsuits and investigations by public and private parties under various environmental laws in connection with our current and former operations in various states, including with respect to off-site disposal at facilities where Grace has been identified as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, commonly referred to as CERCLA. We have established accounting accruals for all environmental matters for which sufficient information is available. As we receive new information, our estimated liability may change materially. We do not have sufficient information to accrue for all of Grace’s 25 environmental risks, and we cannot be sure that our actual costs will be equal to or less than our current estimates and accruals. Furthermore, it is reasonably possible that costs associated with those environmental matters for which we have established accruals may exceed our current accruals by material amounts. Some or all of our liability in connection with alleged violations of environmental laws may not be discharged upon confirmation of our proposed plan of reorganization. Our capital resources are limited and we have limited access to additional financing. In addition to the cash requirements necessary to fund our ongoing operations, we currently are incurring, and anticipate that we will continue to incur significant, professional fees and other restructuring costs in connection with the Chapter 11 proceedings. We are currently funding our operations with cash flow from operations and a debtor-in-possession (DIP) loan facility, which expires on April 1, 2008, in the aggregate amount of $250 million, and with a borrowing availability as of December 31, 2007 of $178.5 million. We have requested a two-year extension of this DIP facility from the lenders and a hearing before the Bankruptcy Court with respect to the extension is scheduled for March 17, 2008. Based on our current and anticipated level of operations, we believe that our cash and short term investments and cash flow from operations are adequate to meet our current and anticipated cash requirements during the Chapter 11 proceedings. If such amounts are not sufficient to fund operations until a plan of reorganization is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, we may be required to reduce planned capital expenditures or seek additional financing. Further, our proposed plan of reorganization requires, and any plan of reorganization that is ultimately confirmed is likely to require, Grace to borrow funds for the payment of certain claims in cash. We can provide no assurance that additional financing for current operations or for payment of claims under a plan of reorganization will be available or, if available, offered on acceptable terms. As a result of the uncertainty surrounding our current circumstances, we cannot determine our long-term liquidity requirements or the adequacy of our capital resources until a plan of reorganization is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. We have unfunded and underfunded pension plan liabilities which will likely require us to use current and future operating cash flow to fund the shortfall. We have no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy these obligations. We maintain U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans covering employees who meet age and service requirements. Our net pension liability and cost is materially 26 affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the longevity and actuarial profile of our workforce, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change in the expected rate of return on plan assets. A change in the discount rate would result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following years. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost in the following years. The international scope of our operations subjects us to the risks of doing business in foreign countries, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct a substantial portion of our business outside of the United States, with approximately 67% of our 2007 sales to non-U.S. customers. We currently have many production facilities, research and development facilities and administrative and sales offices located outside North America, including facilities and offices located in Europe, Latin America, Africa and Asia. We expect sales from international markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue. Accordingly, our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent in international operations include the following: · agreements may be more difficult to enforce and receivables more difficult to collect; · foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; · we may have difficulty transferring our profits or capital from foreign operations to the United States or other countries where such funds could be more profitably deployed; · foreign governments may nationalize private enterprises; · we may experience unexpected adverse changes in export duties, quotas and tariffs and difficulties in obtaining export licenses; · intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce; · our business and profitability in a particular country could be affected by political or economic repercussions on a domestic, country specific or global level from terrorist activities and the response to such activities; and · we may be affected by unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements. In addition, certain of our operations are in high-risk regions of the world such as the Middle East and portions of Asia, Africa and Latin America. Unanticipated events, such as geopolitical changes, could adversely affect these operations. Our success as a global business will depend, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, 27 regulatory, economic, social and political conditions by developing, implementing and maintaining policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business. We are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations that could impact our profitability. We are exposed to currency exchange rate risk through our non-U.S. operations. As we conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the United States, fluctuations in currencies of other countries, especially the Euro, may materially affect our operating results. For example, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the relative prices at which we and our competitors sell products in the same market and the cost of materials used in our operations. A substantial portion of our net sales and assets are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, at a constant level of business, our reported international sales, earnings, assets and liabilities will be reduced because the foreign currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiary’s functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks effectively, or volatility in currency exchange rates may expose our financial condition or results of operations to a significant additional risk. Our ability to use future net operating loss carryovers to reduce future tax payments may be limited if there is a change in ownership of Grace or if Grace does not generate sufficient U.S. taxable income. Our ability to utilize future net operating loss carryovers may be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if we undergo an ownership change as a result of future changes in the ownership of outstanding Grace common stock. In addition, our ability to utilize NOLs is dependant on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in the U.S. We may be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, which could hurt our business. From time to time, we face infringement claims from our competitors or others alleging that our processes or products infringe on their proprietary technologies. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of the claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending and resolving the claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business. If we are found to be infringing on the proprietary technology of others, we may be liable for damages, and we may be required to change our processes, redesign our products, pay others to use the technology or stop using the technology or producing the 28 infringing product. Even if we ultimately prevail, the existence of the lawsuit could prompt our customers to switch to products that are not the subject of infringement suits. While Grace is in bankruptcy, we are not permitted to pay dividends on Grace common stock. We are not permitted to pay dividends on Grace common stock while we are in bankruptcy. Following emergence from bankruptcy, we may be subject to covenants in connection with our financing arrangements that limit or prevent us from paying dividends for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, it is likely that following our emergence from bankruptcy, our board of directors will decide to reinvest our operating cash flow in our business rather than paying dividends. Accordingly, for the foreseeable future, investors in Grace common stock, in all likelihood, will obtain an economic benefit from their shares only by selling them. INDUSTRY RISKS Prices for raw materials and energy are volatile; we may not be able to pass through increases in costs and expenses for raw materials and energy which may hurt our profitability. We use metals, significant amounts of natural gas and petroleum-based materials, including both specialty and commodity materials such as resins and solvents, in the manufacture of our products. We purchase metals, natural gas and petroleum-based products from third-parties and prices have increased dramatically in recent years. To the extent this trend continues and we are unable to pass through these price increases to our customers, our operating profit and results of operations may decline. A substantial portion of our raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply/demand fundamentals change. We attempt to manage exposure to price volatility of major commodities through: · long-term supply contracts; · contracts with customers that permit adjustments for changes in prices of commodity-based materials and energy; · forward buying programs that layer in our expected requirements systematically over time; and · limited use of contracts and financial instruments. Although we regularly assess our exposure to raw material price volatility, we cannot always predict the prospects of volatility and we cannot always cover the risk in a cost effective manner. We have a policy of maintaining, when available, multiple sources of supply for raw materials. However, some of our raw materials are provided by single sources of 29 supply. We may not be able to obtain sufficient raw materials due to unforeseen developments that would cause an interruption in supply. Even if we have multiple sources of supply for raw materials, these sources may not make up for the loss of a major supplier. We spend large amounts of money for environmental compliance in connection with our current and former operations. As a manufacturer of specialty chemicals and materials, we are subject to stringent regulations under numerous U.S. federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, discharge, disposition and stewardship of hazardous wastes and other materials. We have expended substantial funds to comply with such laws and regulations. Legislative, regulatory and economic uncertainties make it difficult for us to project future spending for these purposes, and if there is an acceleration in new regulatory requirements, we may be required to expend substantial additional funds to remain in compliance. The length and depth of product and industry business cycles in our markets, particularly in the construction and petroleum refining industries, may result in periods of reduced sales, operating margins and operating losses. Our GCP operating segment and the refining products portion of our Grace Davison operating segment are sensitive to the cyclical nature of their respective industries. Our hydroprocessing catalyst product line and other hydroprocessing catalyst suppliers have experienced alternating periods of inadequate capacity and excess capacity for their products. Periods of inadequate capacity, including some due to raw material shortages, have usually resulted in increased selling prices and operating margins. This has often been followed by periods of capacity additions, which have resulted in declining capacity utilization rates, selling prices and operating margins. Some of our employees are unionized, represented by workers’ councils or employed subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws of the United States. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 6,500 employees worldwide. Approximately 29% of our 3,150 U.S. employees is unionized. In addition, a large number of our employees are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other rights to employees than the laws of the United States. Such employment rights require us to work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect any changes to labor arrangements. For example, most of our employees in Europe are represented by workers’ councils that have co-determination rights on any changes in conditions of employment, including salaries and benefits and staff changes, and may impede efforts to restructure our workforce. Although we believe that we have a good working relationship with our employees, a strike, work stoppage or slowdown by our employees or significant dispute with our employees could result in a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs. 30 We work with dangerous materials that can injure our employees, damage our facilities and disrupt our operations. Some of our operations involve the handling of hazardous materials that may pose the risk of fire, explosion, or the release of hazardous substances. Such events could result from terrorist attacks, natural disasters, or operational failures, and might cause injury or loss of life to our employees and others, environmental contamination, and property damage. These events might cause a temporary shutdown of an affected plant, or portion thereof, and we could be subject to penalties or claims as a result. A disruption of our operations caused by these or other events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 