D. Risk Factors Our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The trading prices of our ordinary shares and ADSs could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Unfavorable national and global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The crisis in the financial and credit markets in the United States, Europe and Asia during 2008 and 2009 led to a global economic slowdown. Although global economic conditions have stabilized or improved, there is continuing economic uncertainty. If the economies in the countries in which we operate remain uncertain or weaken further, the level of information technology, or IT, capital spending and investment in IT projects by our existing and potential customers may decrease. In addition, this could result in longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition for our products and services. We could also be exposed to credit risk and payment delinquencies on our accounts receivable, which are not covered by collateral. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States, Europe or Asia or other key markets remain uncertain or weaken further, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The loss of, or significant reduction or delay in, purchases by our customers or impairment of our relationships with our largest customers could reduce our revenues and profitability. The loss of any of our major customers or a decrease or delay in orders or anticipated spending by such customers could reduce our revenues and profitability, due to our reliance on such customers. Our customers could also engage in business combinations, which could increase their size, reduce their demand for our products and solutions as they recognize synergies or rationalize assets and increase or decrease the portion of our total sales concentration to any single customer. For example, the largest customers of one of our three significant subsidiaries— Sapiens— and its subsidiaries in North America (three customers), the United Kingdom (one customer), Japan (one customer) and Israel (one customer) accounted for 9.5%, 6%, 15.8% and 25.8% of Sapiens’ consolidated revenues, respectively, in 2010. One significant customer of another significant subsidiary—Magic Software— accounted for 29% of its consolidated revenues in 2010. There can be no assurance that the existing customers of our significant subsidiaries will enter into new project contracts with us or that they will continue using our enabling IT technologies. 7 If we are unable to effectively control our costs while maintaining our customer relationships, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. It is critical for us to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, to minimize the effect of economic downturns on our operations, and in particular, to continue to maintain our customer relationships while protecting profitability and cash flow. If we are unable to align our cost structure in response to economic downturns (such as the downturn that commenced in late 2008, and any subsequent downturn that may recur in the current, uncertain global economic environment) on a timely basis, or if such implementation has an adverse impact on our business or prospects, then our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected. Conversely, adjusting our cost structure to fit economic downturn conditions may have a negative effect on us during an economic upturn or periods of increasing demand for our IT solutions. If we have too aggressively reduced our costs, we may not have sufficient resources to capture new IT projects and meet customer demand. If, for example, during periods of escalating demand for our products, which we experienced during the 2010 fiscal year, we are unable to add engineering and technical staff capacity quickly enough to meet the needs of our customers, they may turn to our competitors making it more difficult for us to retain their business. Similarly, if we are unable for any other reason to meet delivery schedules, particularly during a period of escalating demand, our relationships with our customers could be adversely affected. If we are unable to effectively manage our resources and capacity to capitalize on periods of economic upturn, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our success depends upon the development and maintenance of our strategic alliances. We have established relationships with strategic partners to provide an international marketing presence and name recognition, as well as the resources necessary to implement many of our IT services. We are dependent upon our strategic partners for the marketing and sale of certain of our proprietary software solutions. If we cannot maintain our existing relationships with these partners, if our partners encounter financial difficulties, if we fail to establish effective, long-term relationships with additional partners, or if our partners enter into relationships with our competitors, our ability to market our proprietary software solutions in international markets may be limited. If this happens, our growth, if any, might be delayed or slowed. As a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be seriously harmed. If our products fail to compete successfully with those of our competitors, we may have to reduce the prices of our products, which in turn, may adversely affect our business. We face competition, both in Israel and internationally, from a variety of companies, including companies with significantly greater resources than us who are likely to enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including: • longer operating histories; 8 • greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources; • greater name recognition; • well-established relationships with our current and potential clients; and • a broader range of products and services. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also benefit from greater purchasing economies, offer more aggressive product and service pricing or devote greater resources to the promotion of their products and services. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase such competitors’ ability to successfully market their tools and services. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of consolidation within the industry. Our further penetration of international markets may likewise cause us to face additional competition. As a result, we cannot assure you that the products and solutions that we offer will compete successfully with those of our competitors. We may be unable to differentiate our tools and services from those of our competitors or successfully develop and introduce new tools and services that are less costly than, or superior to, those of our competitors. This could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete. Furthermore, several software development centers worldwide offer software development services at lower prices than we do. Due to the intense competition in the markets in which we operate, software products prices may fluctuate significantly. As a result, we may have to reduce the prices of our products, which in turn, may adversely affect our revenues and the gross margins for our products. If we fail to locate, successfully compete for and consummate suitable acquisitions and investments, we may be unable to grow or maintain our market share. As part of our strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions of, and investments in, other companies, particularly companies offering products, technologies and services that are complementary to ours and are suitable for integration into our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to locate suitable potential acquisition or investment opportunities in Israel or internationally, or if we do identify suitable candidates, that at the conclusion of related discussions and negotiations, we will be able to consummate the acquisitions or investments on terms which are favorable to us. If and when acquisition or investment opportunities arise, we expect to compete for these opportunities with other established and well-capitalized entities, and we cannot guarantee that we will succeed in such competition on terms which remain favorable to us. If we fail to consummate further acquisitions or investments in the future, our ability to grow or to even maintain our market share may be harmed. 9 Any future acquisitions of, or investments in, companies or technologies, especially those located outside of Israel, may distract our management, disrupt our business and may be difficult to finance on favorable terms. As described above, our strategy includes selective acquisitions of, and investments in, companies offering products, technologies and services. If we or any of our subsidiaries acquires or invests in another company, the acquiring or investing entity could have difficulty assimilating the target company’s personnel, operations, technology or products and service offerings into its own. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to a failure to do so. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible challenges that might arise with respect to such products. Furthermore, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for the acquirer. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. Any acquisition or investment in a company located outside of Israel poses additional risks, including risks related to the monitoring of a management team from a great distance and the need to integrate a potentially different business culture. Our failure to successfully integrate such a newly acquired business or such an investment could harm our business. In addition, the investigation of acquisition or investment candidates outside of Israel involves higher costs than those associated with pursuing domestic acquisitions or investments, and we cannot assure you that these investigations will successfully lead to the consummation of transactions. We may furthermore need to raise capital in connection with any such acquisition or investment, which we would likely seek via public or private equity or debt offerings. The issuance of equity securities pursuant to any such financing could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If we raise funds through debt offerings, we may be pressured in serving such debt. Our ability to raise capital in this manner also depends upon market and other conditions, many of which are beyond our control. Due to unfavorable conditions, we could be required to seek alternative financing methods, such as bank financings, which involve borrowing money on terms which are not favorable to us. Difficulties in raising equity capital or obtaining debt financing on favorable terms, or the unavailability of financing, including bank borrowings, may hinder our ability to implement our strategy for selective acquisitions and investments. Our future results could be adversely affected by an impairment of the value of certain intangible assets. The assets listed in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2010 include, among other things, goodwill amounting to approximately $166 million, capitalized software development costs, net, amounting to approximately $25 million and other intangible assets amounting to approximately $8 million. The applicable accounting standards require that: · goodwill not be amortized, but rather be subject to an annual impairment test. We perform an annual impairment test, as well as periodic impairment tests, if impairment indicators are present. Intangible assets that are not considered to have an indefinite useful life are amortized using the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The carrying amount of these assets is reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value (usually discounted cash flow) of the impaired asset; and 10 · acquired technology and development costs of software that is intended for sale that were incurred after the establishment of technological feasibility of the relevant product be capitalized and tested for impairment on a regular basis and written down when capitalized costs exceed the product’s net realizable value. If our goodwill or capitalized software development costs are deemed to be impaired in whole or in part due to adverse changes in the value that we expect to realize from these assets, or if we fail to accurately predict the useful life of the capitalized software development costs, we could be required to reduce or write off such assets, which would require us to recognize additional expense in our statements of operations, thereby adversely affecting our operating results and causing a reduction in our shareholders’ equity. Certain amounts have been allocated to goodwill on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions made by us from time to time, and should it become necessary to write-off a material part of this, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We acquire businesses from time to time and as a result, certain amounts have been allocated to goodwill on our balance sheet. Goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives are tested at least annually for impairment. Should a test disclose that there has been a permanent impairment of a material part of the value of goodwill, it would be necessary to write-off such amount, and this could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our credit facility agreements contain a number of restrictive covenants which, if breached, could result in acceleration of our obligation to repay our debt. The loan agreements to which certain of our subsidiaries are party contain a number of conditions and limitations on the manner in which they can operate their business, including limitations on their ability to incur debt and sell or acquire assets. These loan agreements also contain various covenants which require them to maintain certain financial ratios related to shareholders’ equity and operating results that are customary for companies of comparable size. These limitations and covenants may force us to pursue less than optimal business strategies or forego business arrangements which could have been financially advantageous to us and, by extension, to our shareholders. In addition, a breach of the restrictive covenants could result in the acceleration of our obligations to repay our debt. Marketing our products and services in international markets may require increased expenses and greater exposure to risks that we may not be able to successfully address. We intend to continue to focus our efforts on selling proprietary software solutions in international markets and to devote significant resources to these efforts. If we are unable to continue achieving market acceptance for our solutions or continue to successfully penetrate international markets, our business will be harmed. In 2009 and 2010, we received approximately 22% and 25% of our consolidated revenues, respectively, from customers located outside of Israel. The expansion of our existing operations and entry into additional international markets will require significant management attention and financial resources. We are subject to a number of risks customary for international operations, including: 11 • changing product and service requirements in response to the formation of economic and marketing unions, such as the European Union; • economic or political changes in international markets; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, particularly in southeast Asia; • multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures; and • currency and exchange rate fluctuations. If we fail to address the strain on our resources caused by changes in our company, we will be unable to effectively manage our business. Corporate organizational changes, as well as growth of our business, if any, have placed and will continue to place a strain on our personnel and resources. Our ability to manage any future changes or growth depends on our ability to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information control and reporting systems on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our work force. One of the challenges encountered by our subsidiaries is the need from time to time to, on the one hand, terminate the employment of certain employees, and, on the other hand, retain new employees for new, unexpected projects, each of which requires operational flexibility. If we cannot respond effectively to changing business conditions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, including senior management, we may not be able to achieve our objectives and our business could be harmed. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified professional employees, including senior management. In order to achieve our objectives, we may need to hire additional qualified software, administrative, operational, sales and technical support personnel. The process of attracting, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations can be lengthy and expensive. We expect to recruit most of our software and systems personnel in Israel, where the market for qualified personnel is quite competitive. We may not be able to compete effectively for the personnel that we need. In addition, our operations are dependent on the efforts of certain key management. Any loss of members of senior management or key technical personnel, or any failure to attract or retain highly qualified employees as needed, could materially adversely affect our business. 12 If we fail to estimate accurately the costs of fixed-price contracts, we may incur losses. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from engagements on a fixed-price basis. We price these commitments based upon estimates of future costs. We bear the risk of faulty estimates and cost overruns in connection with these commitments. Our failure to accurately estimate the resources required for a fixed-price project, to accurately anticipate potential wage increases, or to complete our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with a project plan could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, we may agree to a price before design specifications are finalized, which could result in a fixed price that is too low, resulting in lower margins or losses to us. If our tools or solutions do not function efficiently, we may incur additional expenses. In the course of providing our software solutions, we conduct testing to detect the existence of failures, errors and bugs. In addition, we have instituted a quality assurance procedure for correcting errors and bugs in our tools. The amount of failures, errors and bugs detected to date, and the cost of correcting them, have not been significant. However, if our solutions fail to function efficiently or if errors or bugs are detected in our tools in the future, we might incur significant expenditures in an attempt to remedy the problem, and our reputation with users of our products and services may also be harmed. The adverse consequences of, and expenses related to, failures, errors, and bugs could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we fail to satisfy our customers’ expectations regarding our solutions or our solutions cause damage to our customers’ information systems, our contracts may be cancelled and we may be the subject of legal claims. Some of the products and services that we provide involve key aspects of customers’ information systems. These systems are frequently critical to our customers’ operations. As a result, our customers have a greater sensitivity to failures in these systems than do customers of other software products generally. If a customer’s system fails during or following the provision of products or services by us, or if we fail to provide customers with proper support for our software products or do so in an untimely manner, we are exposed to the risks of cancellation of our contract with the customer and a legal claim for substantial damages being filed against us, regardless of whether or not we are responsible for the failure. Any cancellation of a contract could cause us to suffer damages, since we might not be paid for costs that we incurred in performing services prior to the date of cancellation. As to a legal claim for damages by the customer, while, when possible, we limit our liability under our product and service contracts, we cannot guarantee that such a limitation of liability, if any, would be sufficient to protect us. We maintain general liability and professional liability insurance coverage. However, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. If we lose one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In addition, the filing of legal claims against us in connection with contract liability may cause us negative publicity and damage to our reputation. 13 If we are unable to accurately predict and respond to market developments or demands, our business will be adversely affected. The IT business, in large part, is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and methodologies. This makes it difficult to predict demand and market acceptance for our services and products. In order to succeed, we need to adapt the products and services we offer to technological developments and changes in customer needs. We cannot guarantee that we will succeed in enhancing our products and services or developing or acquiring new products and services that adequately address changing technologies and customer requirements. We also cannot assure you that the products and services that we offer will be accepted by customers. If our products and services are not accepted by customers, our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected. hanges in technologies, industry standards, the regulatory environment, customer requirements and new product introductions by existing or future competitors could render our existing products and services obsolete and unmarketable, or require us to enhance our current products or develop new products. This may require us to expend significant amounts of money, time and other resources to meet the demand. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make such expenditures, especially in light of the worldwide financial and economic situation, or that these expenditures will bring the full advantages or any advantage as planned. These expenditures could strain our personnel and financial resources. The economic impact in Japan of the devastation caused by the massive earthquake and tsunami of March 2011 would adversely affect our business and results of operations. On March 11, 2011, a massive earthquake off the eastern coast of Japan triggered a tsunami tidal wave that devastated much of the city of Sendai and large areas of coastal north-eastern Japan, causing thousands of deaths, catastrophic damage and destruction of the local infrastructure, as well as a potential nuclear disaster. It is too early to predict the long-term impact of this disaster on the economy of Japan and elsewhere. Our net sales in Japan constituted approximately 4% of our total net revenues in 2010 and a slow-down in the Japanese economy resulting from such events would adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to retain control of our subsidiaries, we would cease to consolidate them and our operating results may fluctuate significantly. We currently hold a controlling interest in our subsidiaries through our direct equity holdings. As a result of our controlling interests in the subsidiaries, we consolidate their operating results with ours. If we are unable to maintain a controlling interest in our subsidiaries, as a result of equity issuances by subsidiaries to third parties that are unaffiliated with us or otherwise, we would cease to consolidate the operating results of those subsidiaries, based on relevant accounting guidelines. This, in turn, could result in significant fluctuations of our consolidated operating results. 14 Risks Related to our Intellectual Property If third parties assert claims of intellectual property infringement against us, we may suffer substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. We expect that software products will be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps, and we cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement against us based on our software products. Furthermore, our employees and contractors have access to software licensed by us from third parties, and a breach of the non-disclosure undertakings by any of our employees or contractors may lead to a claim of infringement against us. Any claim, with or without merit, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend, and would probably divert our management’s attention and resources. In addition, such a claim may require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a necessary product or component. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our internally developed technology. Substantially all of our intellectual property consists of proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. In general, we have relied on a combination of technical leadership, trade secret, copyright and trademark law and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use the technology protected by those rights. Any infringement of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We have placed, and in the future may place, certain of our software in escrow. The software may, under specified circumstances, be made available to our customers. From time to time, we also provide our software directly to customers. This may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our software. Our largest shareholder, Asseco Poland S.A., owns the majority of the voting rights and controls the outcome of matters that require shareholder approval. Asseco Poland S.A., or Asseco, owns approximately 50.2% of our outstanding ordinary shares and 51.2% of the voting rights. Therefore, Asseco has the power to control the outcome of those matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This voting power may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. In addition, potential conflicts of interest may arise in the event that we or any of our subsidiaries or other affiliates enter into agreements or transactions with affiliates of Asseco. Although Israeli law imposes certain procedures (including shareholder approval) for approval of certain related party transactions, we cannot assure you that these procedures will eliminate the possible detrimental effects of these conflicts of interest. If certain transactions are not approved in accordance with required procedures under applicable Israeli law, these transactions may be void or voidable. 15 Risks Related to our Traded Securities The market price of our ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares may be volatile and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid, or at all. The stock market in general has experienced during recent years extreme price and volume fluctuations, including a sharp decline due to the global economic and financial crisis in late 2008 and in 2009, followed by an overall significant rebound in 2010 and 2011 to date. The market prices of securities of technology companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations have affected and are expected to continue to affect the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. The high and low closing market price of our ordinary shares traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or the TASE, under the symbol “FORT,” and the high and low closing market price of our ADSs traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “FORTY,” during each of the last three years, are summarized in the table below: NASDAQ Global Market TASE In US$ In NIS In US$* High Low High Low High Low 2010 18.92 10.82 67.98 40.21 18.21 10.77 2009 12.10 3.59 44.12 16.16 11.22 4.11 2008 14.14 4.99 47.78 17.53 13.32 4.89 *Prices of our ordinary shares that were quoted in NIS on the TASE have been translated into US dollars based on the representative exchange rates of NIS 3.7330 per US$1 in 2010; NIS 3.9326 per US$1 in 2009; and NIS 3.5878 per US$1 in 2008, in each case as reported by the Bank of Israel. The market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: • any actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors’ quarterly revenues and operating results; • shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts; • public announcements concerning us or our competitors; • results of integrating investments and acquisitions; • the introduction or market acceptance of new service offerings by us or our competitors; 16 • changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • public announcements concerning distribution of dividends and payment of dividends; • changes in security analysts’ financial estimates; • changes in accounting principles; • sales of our shares by existing shareholders; and • the loss of any of our key personnel. In addition, global and local economic, political and market conditions and military conflicts and in particular, those specifically related to the State of Israel, may affect the market price of our shares and ADSs. Significant fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results, which make it difficult for investors to make reliable period-to-period comparisons, may also contribute to volatility in the market price of our ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares. Our quarterly and annual revenues, gross profit, net income and results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The following events may cause fluctuations: • global economic trends, like the recent global economic crisis, followed by the global economic slowdown and slow, uncertain global economic recovery; • acquisitions and dispositions of, and consolidation of, our subsidiaries; • the size, time and recognition of revenue from significant contracts; • timing of product releases; • timing of contracts; • timing of completion of specified milestones and delays in implementation; • changes in the proportion of service and license revenues; • price and product competition; • increases in selling and marketing expenses, as well as other operating expenses; • currency fluctuations; and • consolidation of our customers. A substantial portion of our expenses, including most product development and selling and marketing expenses, must be incurred in advance of when revenue is generated. If our projected revenue does not meet our expectations, we are likely to experience an even larger shortfall in our operating profit relative to our expectations. The gross margins of our individual subsidiaries vary both among themselves and over time. As a result, changes in the revenue mix from these subsidiaries may affect our quarterly operating results. In addition, we may derive a significant portion of our net income from the sale of our investments or the sale of proprietary software technology. These events do not occur on a regular basis and their timing is difficult to predict. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on them as an indication for future performance. Also, it is possible that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens, the prices of our ordinary shares and ADSs will likely decrease. 17 The market prices of our ordinary share and ADSs may be adversely affected if the market prices of our publicly traded subsidiaries decrease. A significant portion of our assets is comprised of equity securities of publicly traded companies. Our publicly traded subsidiaries are Sapiens, Magic Software and Matrix. The stock prices of these publicly traded companies have been extremely volatile, and have been subject to fluctuations due to market conditions and other factors which are often unrelated to operating results and which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in the market price and valuations of our holdings in these companies may affect the market’s valuation of the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs and may also thereby impact our results of operations. If the value of our assets decreases significantly as a result of a decrease in the value of our interest in our publicly traded subsidiaries, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected and the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs may also fall as a result. Our securities are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on the TASE and our ADSs are traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. Trading in our ordinary shares and ADSs on these markets takes place in different currencies (dollars on the NASDAQ Global Market and NIS on the TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different weekly trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares and ADSs on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors (see the risk factor titled “The market price of our ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares may be volatile and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid, or at all” above for an example thereof). On the other hand, any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares or ADSs, as applicable, on one of these markets could likely affect— and cause a decrease in— the trading price on the other market. 18 Risks Relating to Operations in Israel Political, economic, and military conditions in Israel could negatively impact our business. Our headquarters and principal research and development facilities are located in Israel and approximately 75% of our consolidated revenues in 2010 were generated from the Israeli market. As a result, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since 2000, there have been ongoing hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians, which have adversely affected the peace process and at times have negatively influenced Israel’s economy as well as its relationship with several other countries. Hamas, an Islamist movement responsible for many attacks, including missile strikes, against Israelis, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority in 2006 and took control of the entire Gaza Strip by force in 2007. In January 2009, Israel engaged in a military action against Hamas in Gaza to prevent continued rocket attacks against Israel. These developments have further strained relations between Israel and the Palestinians. The current political situation between Israel and its neighbors may not improve. These political, economic and military conditions in Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth. In addition, nonexempt male adult citizens of Israel, including some of our officers and employees, are obligated to perform military reserve duty until the age of 40 or 45 depending on their function in the army, and are subject to being called for active duty under emergency circumstances. While we have operated effectively under these requirements since our incorporation, we cannot predict the full impact of such conditions on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances arise. If many of our employees are called for active duty, our operations in Israel and our business may be adversely affected. Political relations could limit our ability to sell or buy internationally. We could be adversely affected by the interruption or reduction of trade between Israel and its trading partners. Some countries, companies and organizations continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. Also, over the past several years there have been calls in Europe and elsewhere to reduce trade with Israel. There can be no assurance that restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses will not have an adverse impact on our business. The tax benefits available to us from government programs may be discontinued or reduced at any time, which would likely increase our taxes. Certain of our subsidiaries received grants in the past and receive tax benefits under Israeli government programs, particularly as a result of the Approved Enterprise status of certain operations in Israel. Approved Enterprise status is granted by the Israeli Investment Center of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and entitles the grantee to a variety of tax incentives. The incentives awarded to certain of our subsidiaries include reduced tax rates and a tax holiday. Subject to compliance with applicable requirements, the portion of our subsidiary’s undistributed income derived from our Approved Enterprise programs shall be exempt from income tax for a period of two to four years, followed by five to eight years with reduced tax rate of 25% on income derived from Approved Enterprise investment programs. In order to qualify for these incentives, an Approved Enterprise is required to comply with the requirements of the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, known as the Investment Law. As of March 17, 2011, our subsidiaries meet those criteria and continue to receive tax benefits from their Approved Enterprise programs, as described in Note 15 to our financial statements and in “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources— Effective Corporate Tax Rates in Israel” below. To maintain eligibility for these programs and benefits, our subsidiaries must continue to meet the conditions set out in the Investment Law. We cannot assure you that these programs and tax benefits will continue at the same level in the future. If these tax benefits and programs are terminated or reduced, we could pay increased taxes in the future, which could decrease our profits. 19 Fluctuations in foreign currency values may affect our business and results of operations. Due to our extensive operations and sales in Israel, most of our revenues and expenses from our software services are denominated in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. For financial reporting purposes, we translate all non-U.S. dollar denominated transactions into dollars in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Therefore, we are exposed to the risk that a devaluation of the NIS relative to the dollar will reduce our revenue growth rate in dollar terms. On the other hand, a significant portion of our revenues from proprietary software products is currently denominated in other currencies, particularly the Euro, Japanese Yen and British Pound, while a substantial portion of our expenses relating to the proprietary software products, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, is denominated in NIS. As a result, the depreciation of the Euro, Japanese Yen or British Pound relative to the U.S. dollar reduces our dollar recorded revenues from sales of our proprietary software products that are denominated in those currencies and thereby harms our results of operations. In addition, the appreciation of the NIS relative to the dollar increases the dollar recorded value of expenses that we incur in NIS in respect of such proprietary software products sales, and, therefore, could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our competitive position in the markets. The depreciation (appreciation) of the dollar in relation to the NIS (based on the representative exchange rates reported by the Bank of Israel for each year in comparison to the prior year) amounted to 12.7%, (9.6)% and 5.1% for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010. Rises in the inflationary rate in Israel further increase the dollar cost of our NIS-based operating expenses and adversely impact the profits that we realize from our proprietary software products sales. The Israeli rate of inflation amounted to 3.8%, 3.9% and 2.7% for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. To date, we have not engaged in significant hedging transactions. In the future, we may enter into more or larger currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the NIS against the dollar, or the Euro, Japanese Yen and British Pound against the dollar, and from fluctuations in the Israeli inflation rate. However, we cannot assure you that these measures will adequately protect us from the material adverse effects described above. For additional information relating to the exchange rates between different relevant currencies, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Our Functional and Reporting Currency.” It may be difficult to serve process and enforce judgments against our directors and officers in the United States or in Israel. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. All of our executive officers and directors are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to: · effect service of process within the United States on us or any of our executive officers or directors; 20 · enforce court judgments obtained in the United States including those predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws, against us or against any of our executive officers or directors, in the United States or Israel; and · bring an original action in an Israeli court against us or against any of our executive officers or directors to enforce liabilities based upon the United States federal securities laws. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make more difficult an acquisition of our company. The Israeli Companies Law, 1999, referred to as the Companies Law, generally requires that a merger be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the shares voting on the proposed merger, of each of the merging companies. For purposes of the shareholder vote, unless a court rules otherwise, the merger will not be deemed approved if shares representing a majority of the voting power present at the shareholders meeting, and which are not held by the other party to the merger (or by any person who holds 25% or more of the shares or the right to appoint 25% or more of the directors of the other party or its general manager, or any of their relatives or corporations controlled by them) have voted against the merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of the surviving company. In addition, the court may give instructions to secure creditors’ rights. Finally, a merger may generally not be completed unless at least (i) 50 days have passed since the filing of a merger proposal signed by both parties with the Israeli Registrar of Companies; and (ii) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each of the parties to the merger. Also, in certain circumstances an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer. Lastly, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or make more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us, which may adversely affect our ability to engage in a business combination and may also depress the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising the rights thereof and fulfilling the obligations thereof toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing the power thereof in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes at the general meeting with respect to, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and acquisitions and transactions involving interests of officers, directors or other interested parties which require the shareholders’ approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that he or she possesses the power to determine the outcome of a vote at a meeting of our shareholders, or who has, by virtue of the company’s articles of association, the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of an office holder in the company, or any other power with respect to the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. The Companies Law does not establish criteria for determining whether or not a shareholder has acted in good faith. Moreover, the law is relatively new and there is no case law available on the duty of a non-controlling shareholder to act in good faith. 21 As a foreign private issuer whose ADSs are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose ADSs are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the Listing Rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, or on its website, each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer in lieu of any such requirement. In keeping with these relieves, we have elected to follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, composition of our board of directors, director nomination procedure, compensation of officers, and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. We have furthermore elected to follow our home country law, in lieu of those rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market that require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. Accordingly, our shareholders and ADS holders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. Our United States investors could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Although we do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes during 2010, we cannot assure you that we will not be treated as a PFIC in 2011 or in future years. We would be a PFIC if 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income. We would also be a PFIC if at least 50% of our assets in a taxable year produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income includes interest, dividends, royalties, rents and annuities. If we are or become a PFIC, United States investors could be subject to adverse tax consequences, including having gain realized on the sale of our ordinary shares or ADSs being treated as ordinary income, as opposed to capital gain income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to such sale proceeds. Rules similar to those applicable to gains derived from the disposition of our ordinary shares also apply to certain “excess distributions.” A decline in the value of our ordinary shares or ADSs could result in our company being classified as a PFIC. United States investors should consult with their own tax advisors with respect to the United States tax consequences of investing in our ADSs or ordinary shares. 22 For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related tax consequences, see “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” 