Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve risks or uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond our control. Understanding how these factors may affect our business is important to understanding information about the company in this annual report on Form 10-K and our other filings and releases. Our discussion below contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). You should read the discussion below in conjunction with our MD&A, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report. Page 11 of 84 Table of Contents We face intense, multi-channel competition from a variety of competitors that could negatively impact our financial performance. In order to achieve profitable results, we must compete successfully in the consumer electronics industry against large specialty retailers, discount or warehouse club retailers, home office retailers, Internet-based retailers, direct-to-consumer alternatives and local or regional retailers. Many of our vendors and suppliers have opened retail store locations and increased their direct sales to consumers. Because of the size and strong performance of some of our competitors, they may promote merchandise more aggressively and offer more attractive financing and discount prices for extended periods of time, which could adversely affect our profit margin. If we cannot respond adequately to these multiple sources and types of competition, it could adversely impact customer traffic, market share and overall financial performance. If we are not successful in growing our services platform and increasing sales of services and accessories, then our margin and revenues could be adversely impacted. Our strategy includes margin and revenue growth from services, including home theater installation and services for personal computers. We also are focused on increasing revenues through accessory attachments, where we provide the customer with key products as well as cables, connectors, brackets, batteries, chargers, stands, mounts and other accessories. If we are unable to increase the rates at which our customers purchase these services and accessories through our retail execution, then our margin rates could be negatively impacted by decreases in average retail prices. In addition, our revenues could be adversely impacted as a larger number of competitors are able to sell products online and through discount retail channels. Future losses may adversely affect our financial condition and operating cash flows. We had a net loss of $319.9 million for the year ended February 29, 2008, and a net loss of $8.3 million for the year ended February 28, 2007. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition and operating cash flows. We also expect to continue to incur losses for our 2009 fiscal year, although we believe that our turnaround initiatives will lead to sustained profitability. Our primary sources of liquidity include borrowing under our credit facility, available cash and cash equivalents, expected reductions in net-owned inventory and landlord reimbursements for store construction. Potential additional sources of cash in our 2009 fiscal year could include proceeds on the sale of a subsidiary and an income tax refund due to the carryback of a portion of our net operating loss for the 2008 fiscal year. We expect that our primary sources of liquidity will be sufficient to fund capital expenditures and working capital through fiscal 2009 and for the foreseeable future. However, we cannot provide any assurance that our business will return to profitability and that we will not incur additional losses beyond our current expectations. A continued trend of operating losses may have an adverse affect on our financial condition and operating cash flows. Significant changes in our relationships with key suppliers may adversely impact our business. The products that we sell originate from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. During fiscal 2008, the domestic segment’s five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 47 percent of its merchandise purchased, and the international segment’s five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 35 percent of its merchandise purchased. While we believe that our relationships with our key suppliers are strong, any vendor may choose to modify the terms of the relationship that it has with us, due to general economic concerns or due to concerns relating to the vendor or to us, at any time. A significant unfavorable change in our relationships with key suppliers could materially adversely affect our revenue and gross profit. In addition, any significant change in the payment terms that we have with our key suppliers could adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. Page 12 of 84 Table of Contents The failure to control our cost and expense structure could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and earnings. The average selling prices of key products, including flat panel and digital televisions, have decreased significantly, which makes it more challenging for us to maintain or grow profit margins on these products. Many of our competitors have been able to leverage sales growth and maintain efficient cost structures. As part of our turnaround efforts, we have changed our retail standard operating procedures and modified our store management structure. As a result, we have been able to reduce our expense structure to more competitive levels. However, we will need to continue to control our cost and expense structure as we focus on retail execution. Any unplanned increases in labor rates, advertising and marketing expenses or indirect spending could delay us from achieving sustained profitability or otherwise have a material adverse impact on operating results. The unexpected loss of one or more members of our executive management team could adversely affect our business. We have experienced numerous changes in our executive management team in the past several years, including a new chief financial officer and two new executive vice presidents in fiscal 2008. We believe that these individuals understand our operational strategies, including the importance of our turnaround initiatives and the need to continue to motivate our Associates. We have entered into employment agreements with each of these individuals, but we cannot make any assurances that we can retain these individuals for the period necessary for us to return to sustained profitability. Competition for personnel in our industry is strong and the ability to retain key employees during a turnaround can be difficult. The unexpected future loss of services of one or more members of our executive management team could have an adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to retain key executive officers, then it may be difficult for us to maintain a competitive position within the industry or to implement strategic changes in the future. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified Associates at all levels within the company, which could adversely affect our sales performance, cost structure and competitive position within the industry. We must recruit and retain a large number of qualified Associates in order to perform successfully. We face intense competition for Associates at all levels of the company, and we compete in job markets nationally. In addition, many of our Associates are in entry-level or part-time positions, which typically have high levels of turnover. Our ability to maintain appropriate staffing levels while controlling labor costs is subject to a number of external factors such as the quality of the labor market in our trade areas, unemployment levels, prevailing wages, changing demographics, health insurance costs and state labor and employment requirements. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified Associates, then our sales performance may be adversely impacted or our labor costs may increase significantly. We have taken steps to bring our hourly wages in line with the marketplace, which could have an adverse impact on morale, productivity, recruiting and retention. Failure to effectively manage our inventory levels could adversely affect our financial results. We procure merchandise from a variety of sources and methods, including new and existing vendors, reverse auctions, in-house global sourcing and direct relationships with manufacturers. We depend on strong and stable supplier relationships and accurate forecasts of customer demand. Reduced consumer spending or lack of consumer interest in our products could lead to excess inventory levels; alternatively, if we do not have adequate inventory to respond to customer demand for products, we may lose sales to competitors. Additionally, we may inaccurately forecast product life cycles or end-of-life products, leaving us with excess inventory. As a result, we may be forced to lower our prices, adversely impacting margins and financial results. We may be unable to relocate successfully or open new stores in desirable locations, which could adversely affect our ability to increase sales and achieve profitable growth. Our store revitalization program is an important part of our business plan. We have a significant number of stores in older formats or in locations where the trade area has shifted away from our target market. We continue to refine our store prototypes and seek real estate in smaller trade areas and urban locations in addition to larger markets. When we open new stores in markets where we already have a presence, our existing locations may experience a decline in sales as a result. For our store revitalization program Page 13 of 84 Table of Contents to be successful, we must identify and lease favorable store sites, construct the building, and hire and train Associates for the new location. In many areas, we face intense competition from other retailers for desirable store locations. Construction, environmental, zoning and real estate delays may negatively impact store openings and increase costs and capital expenditures. We cannot be certain that new or relocated stores will produce the anticipated sales or return on investment or that existing stores will not be adversely affected by new or expanded competition in their market areas. We may not be able to successfully execute our multi-channel marketing strategy, which could adversely affect our growth, revenues and margins. Our direct-to-consumer business has grown rapidly since the launch of our Web site in 1999. We have invested heavily in marketing our in-store pickup process for Web orders, including our “24/24 Pickup Guarantee,” and we have a catalog offering that allows consumers to order products online or by phone. These efforts are intended to attract new customers and increase sales from existing customers, but they could result in customers making fewer trips to our brick-and-mortar stores. While we continue to focus on strategies that provide enhanced shopping capabilities for our Web site customers, it may be more challenging for us to increase sales of extended warranties, services and accessories as customers move toward greater online shopping. In addition, competitive pricing on the Internet and the ability of online customers to perform better price comparisons could negatively impact traffic, average purchase amount and profit margins. Our business is heavily dependent upon information systems, which require upgrades that may be expensive or difficult to implement, and which could result in higher costs and business disruption. Our information systems include in-store point-of-sale systems that provide information used to track sales performance by Associates, inventory replenishment, e-commerce product availability, product margin information and customer information. In addition, we have or are implementing systems for data warehousing; merchandising and supply chain; planning; and marketing. These systems are complex and require integration with each other and with business processes. We have outsourced a large portion of our information technology infrastructure operations to IBM. If IBM does not respond to our needs or provide satisfactory levels of service under this arrangement, or if we encounter difficulty implementing new systems or maintaining and upgrading current systems, then our business operations could be disrupted and our expenses could increase. Consumers may not upgrade televisions or buy related home theater products, accessories or services at the rate that we expect during the next few years, which would adversely affect our growth, revenues and margins. Because of the transition from analog to digital television broadcasting, we have invested significant inventory, store space and labor in the digital television category. We expect a large number of consumers to replace analog television sets in the next few years and to purchase related home theater products, accessories and services at the same time. Set-top converters and other technology will permit consumers to continue to use analog televisions even after broadcasting is converted to a digital signal. As a result, if consumers do not embrace digital television at the levels that we expect, our growth, revenues and margins may be negatively impacted. General economic conditions or a decline in consumer discretionary spending may adversely impact our sales in a disproportionate fashion. We sell products and services that consumers tend to view as conveniences rather than necessities. As a result, our results of operations may be more sensitive to changes in general economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, energy costs and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or change consumer purchasing habits. A general reduction in the level of consumer spending or our inability to respond to shifting consumer attitudes regarding products, store locations and other factors could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Page 14 of 84 Table of Contents Our business is subject to quarterly fluctuations and seasonality, which leaves our financial and operating results vulnerable to temporary unfavorable conditions that may impact key selling periods. The most significant portion of our revenue is generated during the period that begins with Thanksgiving, includes the holiday shopping season and continues until the Super Bowl. The majority of this period occurs in the company’s fourth fiscal quarter. As a result, any factors negatively affecting us during this time of year, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability for the entire year. In addition, other key holiday weekends during the year, such as Memorial Day, Fourth of July and Labor Day, bring disproportionately high revenues for the quarter in which they fall, relative to non-holiday weekends, and also leave us somewhat vulnerable to adverse impacts from temporary unfavorable conditions. We may not be able to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer demand, preferences and patterns, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. The consumer electronics industry is subject to rapid technological change, obsolescence and price erosion. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to consumer demand and preferences for new items. The introduction and availability of new products are often controlled by manufacturers and may be subject to the cooperation of third parties such as television broadcasters and wireless providers. We may be adversely impacted by limited quantities of new products. The introduction of new technologies may negatively impact sales of existing products. Significant deviations from the projected demand for products that we sell could result in lost sales or lower margins due to the need to mark down excess inventory. Our innovation and strategy efforts may fail to increase sales, improve margins or enhance the customer experience and may not result in any meaningful differentiation against our competitors, which could adversely affect our ability to achieve profitable growth. We have instituted an innovation process to define and test strategic initiatives to grow business in key areas and to identify future areas of growth for us. As a result of this innovation process, we have made large investments in training, information systems and store formats that could prove to be unsustainable or unprofitable when rolled out on a national scale. This could negatively impact our expense structure and profitability. Our failure to successfully implement our strategic vision or the occurrence of any of the following events could have a material adverse impact on our business: • Inability to provide a superior customer experience in our stores that is differentiated from our competitors • Failure to leverage our assets to create new revenue streams and profit • Failure to identify customer needs and desires and to tailor our shopping experience in a way that meets these needs • Inability to grow revenue through in-home sales and service offerings • Lack of core competencies, talent and systems needed to sustain growth and support innovation efforts We rely on foreign sources for a significant portion of our merchandise, so disruptions in countries where our goods are produced or international trade or transportation issues could adversely affect availability of key products and result in associated declines in revenues. We depend on products produced outside the United States and Canada. We could be adversely affected by a number of risks associated with production and delivery of those products into our market areas, including • economic or political instability, natural disasters or public health emergencies in countries where our suppliers are located; • increases in shipping costs; • transportation delays or interruptions, particularly as they may affect seasonal periods; and • changes in laws or taxation policies as they may affect the import and export of goods. Page 15 of 84 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective systems of internal and disclosure control could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. As part of our ongoing monitoring, we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting under standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board that require remediation. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. During the preparation of our quarterly report on Form 10-Q, we determined that there was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of November 30, 2007, arising from the application of certain complex provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” including the calculation of the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. We have remediated this material weakness as of February 29, 2008. We cannot assure that other internal or disclosure control deficiencies might not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could, among other things, result in losses from fraud or error, harm our reputation or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Page 16 of 84 Table of Contents 