Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve risks or uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond our control. Understanding how these factors may affect our business is important to understanding information about the company in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings and releases. Our discussion below contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). You should read the discussion below in conjunction with our MD&A, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report. Failure to improve our cost and expense structure could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and earnings. The average selling prices of key products, including flat panel televisions, have decreased significantly which makes it more challenging for us to maintain or grow profit margins on these products. Many of our competitors have been able to leverage sales growth and maintain efficient cost structures. We have taken actions Page 10 of 83 Table of Contents to improve our cost and expense structure and continue to look for ways to more cost-effectively deliver our products and services to customers. Our strategies for growing revenues will require investments in information technology, innovation and real estate, which could make it difficult for us to achieve or maintain cost reductions. Unplanned increases in labor rates, advertising and marketing expenses or indirect spending could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and operating results. We face intense, multi-channel competition from a variety of competitors that could negatively impact our financial performance. In order to achieve profitable results, we must compete successfully in the consumer electronics industry against large specialty retailers, discount or warehouse retailers, home office retailers, Internet-based retailers, direct-to-consumer alternatives and local or regional retailers. Many of our vendors and suppliers have opened retail store locations and increased their direct sales to consumers. Because of the size and strong performance of some of our competitors, they may promote merchandise more aggressively and offer more attractive financing and discount prices for extended periods of time, which could adversely affect our profit margin. If we cannot respond adequately to these multiple sources and types of competition, it could adversely impact customer traffic, market share and overall financial performance. If we are not successful in growing our services platform and increasing sales of services and accessories, then our margin and revenues could be adversely impacted. Our strategy includes sales and revenue growth from services, including home theater installation and services for personal computers. We also are focused on increasing revenues through “solution selling” where we provide the customer with key products as well as cables, connectors, brackets, batteries, chargers, stands, mounts and other accessories. If we are unable to increase the rates at which our customers purchase these services and accessories, then our margin rates could be negatively impacted by decreases in average retail prices. In addition, our revenues could be adversely impacted as a larger number of competitors are able to sell products online and through discount retail channels. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified Associates at all levels within the company, which could adversely affect our sales performance, cost structure and competitive position within the industry. We must recruit and retain a large number of qualified Associates in order to perform successfully. We face intense competition for Associates at all levels of the company, and we compete in job markets nationally. Many of our Associates are in entry-level or part-time positions, which typically have high levels of turnover. Our ability to maintain appropriate staffing levels while controlling labor costs is subject to a number of external factors such as the quality of the labor market in our trade areas, unemployment levels, prevailing wages, changing demographics, health insurance costs and state labor and employment requirements. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified Associates, then our sales performance may be adversely impacted or our labor costs may increase significantly. We have taken steps to bring our hourly wages in line with the marketplace, which could have an adverse impact on morale, productivity, recruiting and retention. In addition, we have made a number of management changes focused on improving the level of talent at the management and executive levels within the company. If we are unable to retain key managers and executives, then it may be difficult for us to maintain a competitive position within the industry or to implement strategic changes in the future. Failure to effectively manage our inventory levels could adversely affect our financial results. We rely on a best sourcing strategy where we procure merchandise from a variety of sources and methods, including new and existing vendors, reverse auctions, global sourcing capability within the company and direct relationships with manufacturers. We depend on strong and stable supplier relationships and accurate forecasts of customer demand. Reduced consumer spending or lack of consumer interest in our products could lead to excess inventory levels; alternatively, if we do not have adequate inventory to respond to customer demand for products, we may lose sales to competitors. Additionally, we may inaccurately forecast product life cycles or end-of-life products, leaving us with excess inventory. As a result, we may be forced to lower our prices, adversely impacting margins and financial results. Page 11 of 83 Table of Contents We may be unable to relocate successfully or open new stores in desirable locations, which could adversely affect our ability to increase sales and achieve profitable growth. Our store revitalization program is an important part of our business plan. We have a significant number of stores in older formats or in locations where the trade area has shifted away from our target market. We continue to refine our store prototypes and seek real estate in smaller trade areas and urban locations in addition to larger markets. When we open new stores in markets where we already have a presence, our existing locations may experience a decline in sales as a result. For our store revitalization program to be successful, we must identify and lease favorable store sites, construct the building, and hire and train Associates for the new location. In many locations, we face intense competition from other retailers for both real estate and qualified Associates. Construction, environmental, zoning and real estate delays may negatively impact store openings and increase costs and capital expenditures. We cannot be certain that new or relocated stores will produce the anticipated sales or return on investment or that existing stores will not be adversely affected by new or expanded competition in their market areas. Consumers may not upgrade televisions or buy related audio products, home theater products or services at the rate we expect during the next few years, which would adversely affect our growth, revenues and margins. Because of the transition from analog to digital television broadcasting, we have invested significant inventory, store space and labor in the advanced television category. We expect a large number of consumers to replace analog television sets in the next few years and to purchase related audio products, home theater products and services at the same time. Set-top converters and other technology will permit consumers to continue to use analog televisions even after broadcasting is converted to a digital signal. As a result, if consumers do not embrace advanced television at the levels we expect, our growth, revenues and margins may be negatively impacted. We may not be able to successfully execute our multi-channel marketing strategy, which could adversely affect our growth, revenues and margins. Our direct-to-consumer business has grown rapidly since the launch of our Web site in 1999. We have invested heavily in marketing our in-store pickup process for Web orders, and we have initiated a catalog offering that allows consumers to order products by phone. These efforts are intended to attract new customers and increase sales from existing customers, but they could result in customers making fewer trips to our brick-and-mortar stores. It may be more challenging for us to increase sales of extended warranties, services and accessories as customers move toward greater online shopping. In addition, competitive pricing on the Internet and the ability of online customers to perform better price comparisons could negatively impact traffic, average purchase amount and profit margins. Our business is heavily dependent upon information systems, which require upgrades that may be expensive or difficult to implement, and which could result in higher costs and business disruption. Our information systems include in-store point-of-sale systems that provide information used to track sales performance by Associates, inventory replenishment, e-commerce product availability, product margin information and customer information. In addition, we have or are implementing systems for data warehousing; merchandising and supply chain; planning; and marketing. These systems are complex and require integration with each other and with business processes. We have outsourced a large portion of our information technology infrastructure operations to IBM. If IBM does not respond to our needs or provide satisfactory levels of service under this arrangement, or if we encounter difficulty implementing new systems or maintaining and upgrading current systems, then our business operations could be disrupted and our expenses could increase. Our business is subject to quarterly fluctuations and seasonality, which leaves our financial and operating results vulnerable to temporary unfavorable conditions that may impact key selling periods. The most significant portion of our revenue is generated during the period that begins with Thanksgiving, includes the holiday shopping season and continues until the Super Bowl. The majority of this period occurs in the company’s fourth fiscal quarter. As a result, any factors negatively affecting us during this time of year, including Page 12 of 83 Table of Contents adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability for the entire year. In addition, other key holiday weekends during the year, such as Memorial Day, Fourth of July and Labor Day, bring disproportionately high revenues for the quarter in which they fall, relative to non-holiday weekends, and also leave us somewhat vulnerable to adverse impacts from temporary unfavorable conditions. General economic conditions or a decline in consumer discretionary spending may adversely impact our sales in a disproportionate fashion. We sell products and services that consumers tend to view as conveniences rather than necessities. As a result, our results of operations are more sensitive to changes in general economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, energy costs and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or change consumer purchasing habits. A general reduction in the level of consumer spending or our inability to respond to shifting consumer attitudes regarding products, store locations and other factors could adversely affect our growth and profitability. We may not be able to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer demand, preferences and patterns, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. The consumer electronics industry is subject to rapid technological change, obsolescence and price erosion. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to consumer demand and preferences for new items. The introduction and availability of new products are often controlled by manufacturers and may be subject to the cooperation of third parties such as television broadcasters and wireless providers. We may be adversely impacted by limited quantities of new products. The introduction of new technologies may negatively impact sales of existing products. Significant deviations from the projected demand for products we sell could result in lost sales or lower margins due to the need to mark down excess inventory. Our innovation and strategy efforts may fail to increase sales, improve margins or enhance the customer experience and may not result in any meaningful differentiation against our competitors, which could adversely affect our ability to achieve profitable growth. We have instituted an innovation process to define and test strategic initiatives to grow business in key areas and to identify future areas of growth for us. As a result of this innovation process, we are making large investments in training, information systems and store formats that could prove to be unsustainable or unprofitable when rolled out on a national scale. This could negatively impact our expense structure and profitability. Our failure to successfully implement our strategic vision or the occurrence of any of the following events could have a material adverse impact on our business: • Inability to provide a superior customer experience in our stores that is differentiated from our competitors • Failure to leverage our assets to create new revenue streams and profit • Failure to identify customer needs and desires and to tailor our shopping experience in a way that meets these needs • Inability to grow revenue through in-home sales and service offerings • Lack of core competencies, talent and systems needed to sustain growth and support innovation efforts We rely on foreign sources for a significant portion of our merchandise, so disruptions in countries where our goods are produced or international trade or transportation issues could adversely affect availability of key products and result in associated declines in revenues. We depend on products produced outside the United States and Canada. We could be adversely affected by a number of risks associated with production and delivery of those products into our market areas, including • Economic or political instability, natural disasters or public health emergencies in countries where our suppliers are located; Page 13 of 83 Table of Contents • Increases in shipping costs; • Transportation delays or interruptions, particularly as they may affect seasonal periods; and • Changes in laws or taxation policies as they may affect the import and export of goods. Ite m 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Page 14 of 83 Table of Contents 