Item 1A Risk Factors”, our property information and market presence as presented in “Item 2. Properties”, a discussion of our segment results in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our segment footnote – Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information with regard to the investments and results of operations of our segments. Competition The existence of competitively priced distribution space available in any market could have a material impact on our ability to rent space and on the rents that we can charge, which impacts both of our operating segments. To the extent we wish to acquire land for future development of properties in our Real Estate Operations segment or dispose of land, we may compete with local, regional, and national developers. We also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital within our Private Capital segment. We believe we have competitive advantages due to (i) our ability to respond quickly to customers’ needs for high-quality distribution space in key global distribution markets; (ii) our established relationships with key customers served by our local personnel; (iii) our ability to leverage our organizational structure to provide a single point of contact for our global customers through our Global Customer Solutions team; (iv) our property management and leasing expertise; (v) our relationships and proven track record with current and prospective investors in our private capital business; (vi) our global experience in the development and management of industrial properties; (vii) the strategic locations of our land that we expect to develop; and (viii) our personnel who are experienced in the land entitlement process. Customers We have developed a customer base that is diverse in terms of industry concentration and represents a broad spectrum of international, national, regional and local distribution space users. At December 31, 2012, in our Real Estate Operations segment, we had 3,832 customers occupying 296.5 million square feet of distribution space. In the unconsolidated properties we manage, we had 2,703 customers occupying 195.9 million square feet of distribution space. In our Real Estate Operations segment, our largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 1.6% and 18.7%, respectively, of our annualized base rent at December 31, 2012. Within our Global Customer Solutions team, we develop long-term relationships with our customers and understand their business and needs, serving as their strategic partner for real estate on a global basis. Keeping in close contact with customers and focusing on exceptional customer service sets us apart from other real estate providers as much more than a landlord. We believe that what we offer in terms of scope, scale and quality of assets is unique. Our in-depth knowledge of our markets helps us stay ahead of trends and create forward-thinking solutions for their distribution networks. This depth of customer knowledge results in greater retention and expanded service, which garners additional business from the same customer across multiple geographies. In our Real Estate Operations segment, approximately 50.0% of our annual base rent is derived from customers who lease from us in more than one location and more than one country. In our Private Capital segment, we consider our private capital investors to be our customers. As of December 31, 2012, we partnered with 107 investors, several of which invest in multiple ventures. Employees We employ 1,445 persons in our entire organization. Our employees work in four countries in the Americas (875 persons), in 15 countries in Europe (385 persons) and in three countries in Asia (185 persons). Of the total, we have assigned 885 employees to our Real Estate Operations segment and 100 employees to our Private Capital segment. We have 460 employees who work in corporate and support positions who are not assigned to a segment who may assist with segment activities. We believe our relationships with our employees are good. Our employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, although some of our employees in Europe are represented by statutory Works Councils and benefit from applicable labor agreements. Management’s Overview At the time of the Merger, we established our key strategic priorities to guide our path through the end of 2013. These priorities were: • to align our portfolio with our investment strategy while serving the needs of our customers; • to strengthen our financial position and build one of the top balance sheets in the REIT industry; • to streamline our private capital business and position it for substantial growth; • to improve the utilization of our low yielding assets; and • to build the most effective and efficient organization in the REIT industry and to become the employer of choice among top professionals interested in real estate as a career. 6 Table of Contents Align our Portfolio with our Investment Strategy As discussed above, we have categorized our portfolio into three main segments – global, regional and other markets. By segmenting our markets in this manner, we were able to construct a plan that includes culling the portfolio for buildings and potentially submarkets that are no longer a strategic fit. We expect to use the proceeds from dispositions to pay down debt that is secured by the disposed assets, if any, repay other debt and to recycle capital into new development projects and/or strategic acquisitions. Strengthen our Financial Position We intend to further strengthen our financial position by lowering our financial risk and currency exposure and building one of the strongest balance sheets in the REIT industry. We expect to lower our financial risk by reducing leverage and maintaining staggered debt maturities, which will increase our financial flexibility and provide for continued access to capital markets. This financial flexibility will position us to capitalize on market opportunities across the entire business cycle as they arise. We expect to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations by borrowing in local currency where appropriate, and utilizing derivative contracts to hedge our foreign denominated equity and swap U.S. dollar–denominated debt into obligations denominated in foreign currencies. We expect to also lower our foreign currency risk by holding assets outside the United States primarily in co-investment ventures in which we maintain an ownership interest and provide services generating private capital revenue. We will accomplish this through contributions and sales to our existing and newly formed co-investment ventures, including the new ventures in Europe and Japan discussed below under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. In addition, we expect that new development projects, particularly in those emerging markets such as Brazil, China and Mexico, will be done in conjunction with our private capital partners. Streamline Private Capital Business We are working with our private capital investors to rationalize certain of our co-investment ventures. Some of our legacy co-investment ventures have fee structures that do not adequately compensate us for the services we provide. Therefore, we have terminated or restructured certain of these co-investment ventures. In other cases, we may combine some co-investment ventures to gain operational efficiencies. In every case, however, we have and will continue to work very closely with our partners and venture investors who have been and will be active participants in these decisions. We expect to continue with these activities during 2013. We plan to grow our private capital business with the deployment of the private capital commitments we have already raised, formation of new co-investment ventures, including the new ventures in Europe and Japan, and raising incremental capital for our existing co-investment ventures. Improve the Utilization of Our Low Yielding Assets We plan to increase the value of our low yielding assets by stabilizing our operating portfolio to 95% leased, completing the build-out and lease-up of our development projects as well as monetizing our land through development or sale to third parties. Build the most effective and efficient organization in the REIT industry and become the employer of choice among top professionals interested in real estate as a career We realized more than $115 million of cost synergies on an annualized basis, compared to the combined expenses of AMB and ProLogis on a pre-Merger basis. These synergies included gross general and administrative savings, reduced global line of credit facility fees and lower amortization of non real estate assets. We will continue to look for and achieve additional savings opportunities. In addition, we implemented a new enterprise wide system that includes a property management/billing system (implemented in April 2012), a human resources system (implemented in July 2012), a general ledger and accounting system and a data warehouse (implemented in January 2013). In connection with this implementation, we are striving to utilize the most effective global business processes with the enhanced system functionality, and have also implemented several analytical tools to further empower and assist our regional and local teams. In early 2012, we implemented two new compensation plans that we believe will better align employees’ compensation to our company performance. We believe these efforts and others will help us with the attainment of this objective. See “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of our 2012 results and progress attaining the objectives outlined above. Code of Ethics and Business Conduct We maintain a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applicable to our Board of Directors (“Board”) and all of our officers and employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions. A copy of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on our website, www.prologis.com. In addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to Investor Relations, Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111. Any amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that apply to the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, or the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K, will be disclosed on our website. Environmental Matters We are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. Either the previous owners or we subjected a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land, to environmental reviews. While 7 Table of Contents some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments has revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 and “Item 1A. Risk Factors”. Insurance Coverage We carry insurance coverage on our properties. We determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. Such coverage includes property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. Insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self insurance and through a wholly-owned captive insurance entity. We believe that our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. However, an uninsured loss could result in loss of capital investment and anticipated revenues and earnings. See further discussion in “Item 1A. Risk Factors”. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and structure involve various risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, distributable cash flow and value of our securities. These risks include, among others: General Disruptions in the Global Capital and Credit Markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Global market and economic conditions have been challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower growth in most major economies during the last few years. Although signs of recovery are emerging, there are continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, the availability and cost of credit, a lagging real estate market and geopolitical issues that contribute to increased market volatility and uncertain expectations for the global economy. To the extent there is turmoil in the financial markets, it has the potential to materially affect the value of our properties and investments in our unconsolidated entities, the availability or the terms of financing that we and our unconsolidated entities have or may anticipate utilizing, our ability and that of our unconsolidated entities to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance any outstanding debt when due and may impact the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. The market volatility over the last several years has made the valuation of our properties and those of our unconsolidated entities more difficult. There may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of our properties and those we invest in through unconsolidated entities, that could result in a decrease in the value of our properties and our investments in unconsolidated entities. As a result, we may not be able to recover the current carrying amount of our investments in real estate properties, including our unconsolidated entities, which may require us to recognize an impairment charge in earnings where it is known in addition to the charges we previously recognized. Any additional, continued or recurring disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. As a global company, we are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in many countries. We conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the United States. During 2012, we generated approximately 41.8% or $838.6 million of our revenue from operations outside the United States. Circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow include, but are not limited to, the following factors: • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain regions; • differing employment practices and labor issues; • local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; • volatility in currencies; • currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the United States; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and other laws; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing; 8 Table of Contents • the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; • political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist or gang activities (particularly with respect to our operations in Mexico); • foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; and • access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations. Our global growth also subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act and similar laws. Although we have committed substantial resources to expand our global platform, if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with our global business or to adequately manage operational fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, our international operations and, specifically, the ability of our non-United States subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries, including transfers of cash to pay interest and principal on our debt, may be affected by currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences, among other things. The depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We have pursued, and intend to continue to pursue, growth opportunities in international markets where the U.S. dollar is not the functional currency. At December 31, 2012, approximately 40.6% or $11.1 billion of our total assets are invested in a currency other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the British pound sterling, euro and Japanese yen. As a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. A significant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, debt covenant ratios, results of operations and cash flow. Although we attempt to mitigate adverse effects by borrowing under debt agreements denominated in foreign currencies and using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that those attempts to mitigate foreign currency risk will be successful. Hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements and the risk of fluctuation in the relative value of the foreign currency. The funds required to settle such arrangements could be significant depending on the stability and movement of foreign currency. The failure to hedge effectively against exchange rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors. Real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of investments and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as secured mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. Like other companies qualifying as REITs under the Internal Revenue Code, we are only able to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business through taxable REIT subsidiaries in order to not incur punitive taxation on any tax gain from the sale of such property. While we may dispose of certain properties that have been held for investment in order to generate liquidity, if we do not satisfy certain safe harbors or we believe there is too much risk of incurring the punitive tax on any tax gain from the sale, we may not pursue such sales. In the event that we do not have sufficient cash available to us through our operations or available credit facilities to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. Such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting ourselves of properties, whether or not they otherwise meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms, incurring debt, entering into leases with our customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms or entering into lease renewals with our existing customers without an increase in rental rates at turnover. There can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. Additionally, taking such measures to increase our liquidity may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, our ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. Risks Related to our Business General economic conditions and other events or occurrences that affect areas in which our properties are geographically concentrated, may impact financial results. We are exposed to general economic conditions, local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties. Our operating performance is further impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties. 9 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2012, approximately 25.1% of our consolidated operating properties or $5.7 billion (based on investment before depreciation) are located in California, which represented 20.5% of the aggregate square footage of our operating properties and 23.1% of our annualized base rent. Our revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in California may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. Business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact California’s economic climate. Because of the number of properties we have located in California, a downturn in California’s economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. In addition to California, we also have significant holdings (defined as more than 3% of total investment before depreciation) in operating properties in certain global and regional markets located in Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, France, Japan, Mexico, New Jersey/New York City, South Florida and the United Kingdom. Our operating performance could be adversely affected if conditions become less favorable in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties. Conditions such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space, among other factors, may impact operating conditions. Any material oversupply of distribution space or material reduction in demand for distribution space could adversely affect our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of our securities. In addition, the unconsolidated entities in which we invest have concentrations of properties in the same markets mentioned above, as well as in markets in Germany, the Netherlands, Poland and Seattle are subject to the economic conditions in those markets. A number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. United States properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, and Seattle. International properties located in active seismic areas include Japan and Mexico. We generally carry earthquake insurance on our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. We evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants and in some specific instances have elected to self insure our earthquake exposure based on this analysis. We have elected not to carry earthquake insurance for wholly owned assets in Japan based on this analysis. Further, a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and/or flood risk. We carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. We evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. Our insurance coverage does not include all potential losses. We and our unconsolidated entities currently carry insurance coverage including property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from certain perils such as fire and additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance, as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and business operations are located. The insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties, business activities and markets. We believe our properties and the properties of our unconsolidated entities are adequately insured. However, there are certain losses, including losses from floods, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, that are not generally insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and future revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that the insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties or if the insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. Any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. Investments in real estate properties are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business. Investments in real estate properties are subject to varying degrees of risk. While we seek to minimize these risks through geographic diversification of our portfolio, market research and our property management capabilities, these risks cannot be eliminated. Some of the factors that may affect real estate values include: • local conditions, such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space in an area; • the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers; • competition from other available properties; 10 Table of Contents • increasing costs of rehabilitating, repositioning, renovating and making improvements to our properties; • our ability to provide adequate maintenance of, and insurance on, our properties; • our ability to control rents and variable operating costs; • governmental regulations, including zoning, usage and tax laws and changes in these laws; and • potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning and other laws. Our investments are concentrated in the industrial distribution sector and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector. Our investments in real estate assets are primarily concentrated in the industrial distribution sector. This concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities were more diversified. Our operating results and distributable cash flow will depend on the continued generation of lease revenues from customers and we may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire. Our operating results and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. We are also subject to the risk that, upon the expiration of leases for space located in our properties, leases may not be renewed by existing customers, the space may not be re-leased to new customers or the terms of renewal or re-leasing (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to customers) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Our competitors may offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain customers when our customers’ leases expire. In the event of default by a significant number of customers, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord, and may be unable to re-lease spaces. A customer may experience a downturn in its business, which may cause the loss of the customer or may weaken its financial condition, resulting in the customer’s failure to make rental payments when due or requiring a restructuring that might reduce cash flow from the lease. In addition, a customer may seek the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such customer’s lease and thereby cause a reduction in our available cash flow. If we decide to contribute or sell properties to an unconsolidated entity or third parties to generate proceeds, we may not be successful. We may contribute or sell properties to certain of our unconsolidated entities or third parties on a case-by-case basis. Our ability to sell properties on advantageous terms is affected by competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties; market conditions, including the capitalization rates applicable to our properties; and other factors beyond our control. If our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets and/or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at favorable pricing or on favorable terms or at all. The unconsolidated entity or third parties who might acquire our properties may need to have access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, in order to acquire properties from us. Should they have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then dispositions could be delayed. If we are unable to generate proceeds through property sales we may have to delay our deleveraging plans, which may result in adverse effects on our liquidity, distributable cash flow, debt covenant ratio, and the market price of our securities. We may acquire properties, which involves risks that could adversely affect our operating results and the value of our securities. We may acquire industrial properties. The acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and that any actual costs for rehabilitation, repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in the pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. When we acquire properties, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. Additionally, there is, and it is expected there will continue to be, significant competition for properties that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. Our real estate development strategies may not be successful. Our real estate development strategy is focused on monetizing land in the future through sales to third parties, development of industrial properties to hold for long-term investment or contribution or sale to an unconsolidated entity, depending on market conditions, our liquidity needs and other factors. We may expand investment in our development, renovation and redevelopment business and we will complete the build-out and leasing of our development platform. We may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties within existing or newly formed development co-investment ventures. The real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities, which include the following risks: • we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all; • we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; 11 Table of Contents • we may seek to sell certain land parcels and not be able to find a third party to acquire such land or the sales price will not allow us to recover our investment, resulting in additional impairment charges; • development opportunities that we explore may be abandoned and the related investment impaired; • the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts; • we may not be able to lease properties on favorable terms or at all; • construction costs, total investment amounts and our share of remaining funding may exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned; • we may not be able to attract third party investment in new development co-investment ventures or sufficient customer demand for our product; • we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our redevelopment projects on expected timetables or at all; • we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public or government opposition to our activities; and • substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of management’s time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations. We are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flow. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner, developer or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous substances. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. Environmental laws in some countries, including the United States, also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. Some of our properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials. In addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Further, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. From time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. In connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. We cannot give any assurance that other such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. The presence of such substances on our real estate properties could adversely affect our ability to lease, develop or sell such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral and may have an adverse effect on our distributable cash flow. We are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming co-investment ventures, investing in new or existing co-investment ventures, attracting third party investment and investing in and managing properties through co-investment ventures. As of December 31, 2012, we had an investment in real estate containing approximately 214.5 million square feet held through unconsolidated entities. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in unconsolidated entities, and we may and currently intend to develop and acquire properties through co-investment ventures and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to form new co-investment ventures, attract third party investment or make additional investments in new or existing co-investment ventures, successfully develop or acquire properties through unconsolidated entities, or realize value from such unconsolidated entities. Our inability to do so may have an adverse effect on our growth, our earnings and the market price of our securities. 12 Table of Contents Our partners in our unconsolidated investments may share certain approval rights over major decisions and some partners may manage the properties in the unconsolidated entities. Our unconsolidated investments involve certain risks, including: • if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to contribute such capital; • our partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; • the venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the co-investment venture or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; • our relationships with our partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to manage or invest in the assets underlying such relationships resulting in reduced fee revenue or causing a need to purchase such interest to continue ownership; and • disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable co-investment venture to additional risk. We generally seek to maintain sufficient influence over our unconsolidated entities to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to do so. We have formed publicly traded investment vehicles, like our publicly traded REIT in Japan, for which we serve as sponsor and/or manager. We have contributed, and may continue to contribute, assets into such vehicles. As with any of our publicly traded entities or funds, there is a risk that we may not be able to continue to manage such entities and their assets in the event that our managerial relationship is terminated. The occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities. Contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. We have acquired and may in the future acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include: • liabilities for environmental conditions; • losses in excess of our insured coverage; • accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; • tax, legal and regulatory liabilities; and • claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of our properties. Risks Related to Financing and Capital We face risks associated with the use of debt to fund our business activities, including refinancing and interest rate risks, and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to make required payments on our debt or are unable to refinance our debt. We are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness, that such refinancing would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness, or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition would be adversely affected and, if the maturing debt is secured, the lender may foreclose on the property securing such indebtedness. Our Global Senior Credit Agreement, Japanese yen-based credit agreement and certain other debt bears interest at variable rates. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these agreements. From time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap or cap agreements. Such hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. The funds required to settle any swap breakage arrangements, if any, could be significant depending on the size of underlying financing and the applicable interest rates at the time of breakage. The failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. In addition, our unconsolidated entities may be unable to refinance indebtedness or meet payment obligations, which may impact our distributable cash flow and our financial condition and/or we may be required to recognize impairment charges of our investments. 13 Table of Contents Covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and breaches of these covenants could adversely affect our financial condition. The terms of our various credit agreements, including our Global Senior Credit Agreement and Japanese yen-based credit agreement, the indentures under which our senior notes are issued and other note agreements, require us to comply with a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios, fixed charge ratios and other operating covenants including maintaining insurance coverage. These covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. If we default under the covenant provisions and are unable to cure the default, refinance the indebtedness or meet payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition could be adversely affected. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. The credit ratings of our senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. Our credit ratings can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future growth, our financial condition, the market price of our securities, and our development and acquisition activity. We are dependent on external sources of capital. In order to qualify as a REIT, we are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and we may be subject to tax to the extent our income is not fully distributed. While historically we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, we may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. For distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2012, and in some cases declared as late as December 31, 2013, the REIT can satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of our stock if certain conditions are met. Assuming we continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. Further, in order to maintain our REIT status and not have to pay federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. Our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market’s perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our securities. Our stockholders may experience dilution if we issue additional common stock. Any additional future issuance of common stock will reduce the percentage of our common stock owned by investors. In most circumstances, stockholders will not be entitled to vote on whether or not we issue additional common stock. In addition, depending on the terms and pricing of an additional offering of our common stock and the value of the properties, our stockholders may experience dilution in both book value and fair value of their common stock. Federal Income Tax Risks Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have serious adverse consequences. We elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code commencing with the taxable year ended December 31, 1997. We believe we have operated so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code and believe that our current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code to enable us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, it is possible that we are organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow us to qualify as a REIT, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify. Qualification as a REIT requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the Internal Revenue Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, Prologis must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. In addition, we must pay dividends to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. The provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations regarding qualification as a REIT are more complicated in our case because we hold assets through the Operating Partnership. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost the qualification. If we lost our REIT status, our net earnings would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. Furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary REITs which elected to be taxed as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. Provided that each subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT, our interest in such subsidiary REIT will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary REIT will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. To qualify as a REIT, the subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements. If such subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to United States federal income tax. In addition, a failure of the subsidiary REIT to qualify as a REIT would have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a REIT. Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co-investment ventures. Under the Internal Revenue Code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. We do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. However, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. The Internal Revenue Code may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. While we believe that the Internal Revenue Code would not prevail in any such dispute, if the Internal Revenue Code were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition, or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. In addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect us. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax taws applicable to investments in REITs and similar entities. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders. Other Risks Risks Associated with our Dependence on Key Personnel. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. From time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. In connection with the completion of the Merger, there were changes to our personnel and their roles. While we believe that we have retained our key talent and have found suitable employees to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market price of our securities. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. If we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, including removing access barriers, then our cash flow and the amounts available to make distributions and payments to our security holders may be adversely affected. Our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life-safety requirements. We could incur fines or private damage awards if we fail to comply with these requirements. While we believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. We are subject to governmental regulations and actions that affect operating results and financial condition. Many laws, including tax laws, and governmental regulations apply to us, our unconsolidated entities and our properties. Changes in these laws and governmental regulations, or their interpretation by agencies or the courts, could occur, which might affect our ability to conduct business. Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures 15 Table of Contents and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting that may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in the price of our securities, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. We are exposed to the potential impacts of future climate change and climate change related risks. We consider that we are exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate. Our distribution facilities may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms and/or floods. If the frequency of extreme weather events increases due to climate change, our exposure to these events could increase. We do not currently consider ourselves to be exposed to regulatory risks related to climate change, as our operations do not emit a significant amount of greenhouse gases. However, we may be adversely impacted as a real estate developer in the future by potential impacts to the supply chain and/or stricter energy efficiency standards for buildings. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 