Item 1A. Risk Factors This section describes material risks affecting our business. In addition, in connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this annual report, we urge you to review carefully not only the factors discussed below but also the cautionary statements referred to in “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business Global recessionary economic conditions and adverse developments in the credit markets have had, and we expect will continue to have, an adverse effect on our investments and our operating results, including causing significant reduction in the availability of financing to us and for refinancing to our borrowers, increases in payment defaults and other credit risks in our investments, decreases in the fair value of our assets and decreases in the cash flow we receive from our investments. Global recessionary economic conditions and adverse developments in the credit markets have substantially reduced or eliminated the availability of financing for most real estate sectors in which we and the companies we finance operate. This has reduced, and may continue to reduce, the amount of capital we have available to make new investments, contributing to the reduction of our assets under management, and the reduction of income and fees derived from our investments. These conditions and developments have adversely affected many real estate sectors in which the companies we finance operate, resulting in increasing credit risk relating to, and payment defaults in, our investments. This has reduced, and may continue to reduce, the revenue and cash flow we receive from our investments and the fair value of our investments and has resulted in, and may continue to cause, material asset impairment of these investments. Our response to current economic conditions may require us to change our business strategy, including the types of investments we make, how we finance them and our dividend policies, from our historical approaches. We cannot predict the effect on us that government policies and plans adopted in response to global recessionary economic conditions and adverse developments in the credit markets will have. Governments have adopted, and we expect will continue to adopt, policies and plans intended to address current recessionary economic conditions and adverse developments in the credit markets. We cannot assure you that these programs will assist us. To the extent they assist our competitors and not ourselves or do not increase the liquidity available to us or the companies we finance or otherwise do not improve conditions for investments in our portfolio and the companies we have financed, we may be adversely affected by these plans. Our ability to obtain additional liquidity and capital resources has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the global recessionary economic conditions and adverse developments in the capital markets. Our business requires a substantial amount of liquidity to fund investments, to pay expenses and to acquire and hold assets. As REITs, we and Taberna must distribute at least 90% of REIT taxable income to our respective shareholders, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, which substantially limits our ability to accumulate cash from our operations. Developments in the capital markets have substantially reduced the debt capital and equity capital available to us and adversely affected our ability to execute successfully our business plan. With respect to debt capital, we believe many of the types of financing arrangements we used historically will not be available for investments of the type we have originated historically for the foreseeable future, including warehouse lines of credit and repurchase agreements for short term financing and securitizations for long term financing of our investments. Our continued use of secured bank financing will depend on our ability to negotiate renewals of our current lines of credit as they mature and to obtain new secured bank financing on acceptable terms and for banks to approve of the investments we propose to make financed by our bank lines of 14 Table of Contents credit. We have historically issued debt securities to one or more institutional investors from time to time as market conditions permitted, particularly our TruPS and our convertible senior notes. We expect that our opportunities to issue additional debt will be limited for the foreseeable future. With respect to equity capital, we believe the market for our common shares and preferred shares has contracted as the global recessionary economic conditions and adverse developments in the capital markets have developed from 2007. We may not be able to obtain the amounts of capital on the terms we seek through issuances of our equity securities. We are seeking, and expect we will continue to seek, alternative financing arrangements in response to current market conditions, including joint venture and co-investment opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop these financing sources on acceptable terms, or at all. We may need to identify capital in smaller increments to attempt to match fund the investment to the financing source to the extent economically feasible. Our rate of originating new assets may decline under alternative financing arrangements which may result in lower fee income and cash flow for distribution and a reduction in our assets under management. The failure to secure financing on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts has, and may continue to, reduce our taxable income by limiting our ability to originate loans and other investments and reducing our fee income, increasing our financing expense. A reduction in our net taxable income could impair our liquidity and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. The failure of most of our securitization financings to meet their performance tests, including over-collateralization requirements, has reduced, and may continue to reduce, our net income and cash flow generated by these securitizations, may trigger certain termination provisions in the related collateral management agreements under which we manage these securitizations and may cause an event of default under these securitizations. The terms of the securitizations we have structured generally provide that the principal amount of assets must exceed the principal balance of the related securities issued by them by a certain amount, commonly referred to as “over-collateralization.” The securitization terms provide that, if delinquencies and/or losses exceed specified levels based on the analysis by the rating agencies (or any financial guaranty insurer) of the characteristics of the assets collateralizing the securities issued in the securitization, the required level of over-collateralization may be increased or may be prevented from decreasing as would otherwise be permitted if losses or delinquencies did not exceed those levels. In addition, a failure by a securitization to satisfy an over-collateralization test typically results in accelerated distributions to the holders of the senior debt securities issued by the securitization entity. Our equity holdings and, when we acquire debt interests in securitizations, our debt interests, and our subordinated management fees, if any, are subordinate in right of payment to the other classes of debt securities issued by the securitization entity. Many of our securitizations have not passed some of their overcollateralization tests and have accelerated distributions to senior debt resulting in the cessation of distributions on the subordinated debt and equity we hold in these securitizations and our subordinated management fees from these securitizations. This has resulted in a substantial reduction in the cash flow we receive from these securitizations. Other tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may restrict our ability to receive cash distributions from assets collateralizing the securities issued by the securitization entity. We cannot assure you that the performance tests will be satisfied. In addition, collateral management agreements typically provide that if certain over-collateralization tests are failed, the collateral management agreement may be terminated by a vote of the security holders resulting in our loss of senior and subordinated management fees from these securitizations. If the assets held by securitizations fail to perform as anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected, and over-collateralization or other credit enhancement expenses associated with our securitization financings will increase. 15 Table of Contents The overcollateralization tests and other tests of those of our securitizations still making distributions on some or all of the subordinated debt and equity we hold in these securitizations and our subordinated management fees from these securitizations have been, and may continue to, deteriorate. If these securitizations fail to satisfy their performance tests, we may be adversely affected in a manner similar to the effects described above. If any of our securitizations fail to meet certain overcollateralization tests relevant to the most senior debt issued and outstanding by the securitization, an event of default may occur under that securitization. If that occurs, our ability to manage the securitization would be terminated and our ability to attempt to cure any defaults in the securitization would be limited, which would increase the likelihood of a reduction or elimination of cash flow and returns to us in those securitizations for an indefinite time. We receive collateral management fees pursuant to collateral management agreements for services provided by our subsidiaries for acting as the collateral manager of securitizations sponsored by us. If a collateral management agreement is terminated or if the securities serving as collateral for a securitization are prepaid or go into default, the collateral management fees will be reduced or eliminated. Our subsidiaries receive collateral management fees pursuant to collateral management agreements for acting as the collateral manager of securitizations sponsored by us. If all the notes issued by a securitization for which one of our subsidiaries acts as collateral manager are redeemed, or if the collateral management agreement is otherwise terminated, we will no longer receive collateral management fees from that subsidiary with respect to that securitization. In general, a collateral management agreement may be terminated both with and without cause at the direction of holders of a specified supermajority in principal amount of the notes issued by the securitization. Furthermore, such fees are based on the total amount of collateral held by the securitizations. If the securities serving as collateral for a securitization are prepaid or go into default, we will receive lower collateral management fees than expected or the collateral management fees may be eliminated. Our investments in securitizations are exposed to greater uncertainty and risk of loss than investments in higher grade securities in these securitizations. When we securitize assets such as commercial mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, TruPS and residential mortgage loans, the various tranches of investment grade and non-investment grade debt obligations and equity securities have differing priorities and rights to the cash flows of the underlying assets being securitized. We structured our securitization transactions to enable us to place debt and equity securities with investors in the capital markets at various pricing levels based on the credit position created for each tranche of debt and equity securities. The higher rated debt tranches have priority over the lower rated debt securities and the equity securities issued by the particular securitization entity with respect to payments of interest and principal using the cash flows from the collateral assets. The relative cost of capital increases as each tranche of capital becomes further subordinated, as does the associated risk of loss if cash flows from the assets are insufficient to repay fully interest and principal or pay dividends. Since we invest in the “BBB,” “BB,” “B” and unrated debt and equity classes of securitizations, we are in a “first loss” position because the rights of the securities that we hold are subordinate in right of payment and in liquidation to the rights of higher rated debt securities issued by the securitization entities. Accordingly, we may incur significant losses when investing in these securities. These investments bear a greater risk of loss than the senior debt securities that have been sold to third-party investors in each of our securitizations. In the event of default, we may not be able to recover all of our respective investments in these securities. In addition, we may experience significant losses if the underlying portfolio has been overvalued or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest, principal and dividend payments due on the related securities. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than higher rated investments, but are more sensitive to economic downturns or developments specific to a particular issuer. An economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities 16 Table of Contents because the ability of obligors on the underlying assets to make principal, interest and dividend payments may be impaired. In such an event, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our investments in these securities. Adverse market trends relating to the loans and real estate securities collateralizing our securitizations have reduced, and are expected to continue to reduce, the value of our retained interests in these securitizations. The securitizations we sponsored where we retained debt or equity issued by the securitization entity have been backed by mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, TruPS, other senior and subordinated real estate company securities, other preferred securities, RMBS, CMBS or other real estate-related securities. Adverse market trends since then have reduced, and we expect them to continue to reduce, the value of these types of assets and the value of our interests in securitizations. Representations and warranties made by us in loan sales and securitizations may subject us to liability that could result in loan losses and could harm our operating results and, therefore distributions we make to our shareholders. In connection with securitizations, we make representations and warranties regarding the assets transferred into securitization trusts. The trustee in the securitizations has recourse to us with respect to the breach of these representations and warranties. While we generally have recourse to loan originators for any such breaches, there can be no assurance that the originators will be able to honor their obligations. We generally attempt to limit the potential remedies of the trustee to the potential remedies we have against the originators from whom we acquired the assets. However, in some cases, the remedies available to the trustee may be broader than those available to us against the originators of the assets and, in the event the trustee enforces its remedies against us, we may not always be able to enforce whatever remedies are available to us against the originators of the loans. Furthermore, if we discover, prior to the securitization of an asset, that there is any fraud or misrepresentation with respect to it and the originator fails to repurchase the asset, then we may not be able to sell the asset or may have to sell it at a discount. Our reliance on significant amounts of debt to finance investments may subject us to an increased risk of loss, reduce our return on investments, reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders and possibly result in the foreclosure of any assets subject to secured financing. We have historically incurred a significant amount of debt to finance operations, which could compound losses and reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Changes in market conditions have caused, and may continue to cause, availability of financing to decrease and the cost of financing to increase relative to the income that we can derive from investments, which has impaired, and may continue to impair, the returns we can achieve and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Our debt service payments reduce the net income available for distributions to our shareholders. Most of our assets are pledged as collateral for borrowings. In addition, the assets of the securitizations that we consolidate collateralize the debt obligations of the securitizations and are not available to satisfy other creditors. To the extent that we fail to meet debt service obligations, we risk the loss of some or all of our respective assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy these debt obligations. Currently, our declaration of trust and bylaws do not impose any limitations on the extent to which we may leverage our respective assets. We may seek to acquire, redeem, restructure, refinance or otherwise enter into transactions to satisfy our debt which may include issuances of our debt and/or equity securities, sales or exchanges of our assets or other methods. We are aware that our convertible senior notes, CDO notes payable and other indebtedness are currently trading at substantial discounts to their respective face amounts. In order to reduce future cash interest payments, as well as future principal amounts due at maturity or upon redemption, or to otherwise benefit RAIT, we may, 17 Table of Contents from time to time, purchase such convertible senior notes, CDO notes payable or other indebtedness for cash, in exchange for our equity securities, or for a combination of cash and equity securities, in each case in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, exchange offers and consent solicitations or otherwise. We will evaluate any such transactions in light of then-existing market conditions, contractual restrictions and other factors, taking into account our current liquidity and prospects for future access to capital. The amounts involved in any such transactions, individually or in the aggregate, may be material. Our financing arrangements contain covenants that restrict our operations, and any default under these arrangements would inhibit our ability to grow our business, increase revenue and pay distributions to our shareholders. Our financing arrangements contain extensive restrictions, covenants and events of default. Failure to meet or satisfy any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. Any event of default may materially adversely affect us. These agreements may contain cross- default provisions so that an event of default under any agreement will trigger an event of default under other agreements, giving our lenders the right to declare all amounts outstanding under their particular credit agreement to be immediately due and payable, and enforce their rights by foreclosing on or otherwise liquidating collateral pledged under these agreements. Some of the consequences of these restrictions include the following: • under our senior convertible notes, payment may be accelerated if a defined change in control occurs or if RAIT fails to pay a final judgment in excess of $25.0 million; • under our $10.0 million secured credit facility, a covenant default occurs if we do not maintain a defined net worth of $500.0 million, a defined debt to equity ratio of not more than 0.75 to 1 on a semi-annual basis and maintain liquidity of 5% of the committed lines of credit to us and an event of default occurs if RAIT fails to pay a final judgment in excess of $2.5 million; • under our $50.0 million secured credit facility, we must maintain a defined effective tangible net worth of $400.0 million and an event of default occurs if RAIT fails to pay a final judgment in excess of $5.0 million; • under the junior subordinated notes issued by RAIT included in “Other Indebtedness” in our balance sheets, if a payment default or bankruptcy related default occurs, RAIT is prohibited from paying dividends on its equity; and • under our master repurchase agreements, payments may be accelerated if we fail to maintain a defined effective tangible net worth of at least $400.0 million as of the end of any fiscal quarter and, under one of our master repurchase agreements, the rate of repayment may be increased if our defined average liquidity balance for the four most recent fiscal quarters is less than 40% of the aggregate purchase price outstanding under both master repurchase agreements or the aggregate management fees we receive during any fiscal quarter are less than $1.75 million and we may also be required to pay a performance amount monthly if losses in the purchased assets exceed agreed-upon limits. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or to engage in other business activities. Furthermore, our default under any of our financing arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The lack of liquidity in our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises and any sales may be at a loss to us. We make investments in securities issued by private companies and other illiquid investments. A portion of these securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises and may impair the value of these investments. In addition, the fair value of our assets has been declining. Any sales of investments we make may result in our recognizing a loss on the sale. 18 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive market which may harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We are subject to significant competition in all of our business lines. We compete with many third parties engaged in finance and real estate investment activities, including other REITs, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, lenders, governmental bodies and other entities. Some of these competitors have, or in the future may have, substantially greater financial resources than we do and generally may be able to accept more risk. As such, they have the ability to make larger loans and to reduce the risk of loss from any one loan by having a more diversified loan portfolio. They may also enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. An increase in the general availability of funds to lenders, or a decrease in the amount of borrowing activity, may increase competition for making loans and may reduce obtainable yields or increase the credit risk inherent in the available loans. In addition, competition may lead us to pay a greater portion of the origination fees that we expect to collect in our future origination activities to third-party investment banks and brokers that introduce their clients to us in order to continue to generate new business from these sources or otherwise may reduce the fees we are able to earn in connection with our business lines. Competition may limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us. It may also result in higher prices, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs, making it more difficult for us to acquire new investments on attractive terms and reducing the fee income we realize from the origination, structuring and management of securitizations. It may also make it more difficult to obtain appreciation interests and increase the price, and thus reduce potential yields, on discounted loans we acquire. Loss of our management team or the ability to attract and retain key employees could harm our business. The real estate finance business is very labor-intensive. We depend on our management team to manage our investments and attract customers for financing by, among other things, developing relationships with issuers, financial institutions and others. The market for skilled personnel is highly competitive and has historically experienced a high rate of turnover. Due to the nature of our business, we compete for qualified personnel not only with companies in our business, but also in other sectors of the financial services industry. Competition for qualified personnel may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract or retain qualified personnel at reasonable costs or at all. If we are unable to attract or retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel at manageable costs, it could impair our ability to manage our investments and execute our investment strategies successfully, thereby reducing our earnings and our ability to make distributions. We depend on information systems and third parties. Systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, impair our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Our business depends on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of these systems could cause delays or other problems in our activities, which could reduce our earnings and our operating results and negatively affect our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We are named as a defendant in a consolidated putative class action securities lawsuit and putative shareholders’ derivative actions and the adverse resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We, certain of our executive officers and trustees, our auditors and the lead underwriters involved in our public offering of common shares in January 2007 and our public offering of series C preferred stock in July 2007 were named defendants in one or more of nine putative class action securities lawsuits filed in August 19 Table of Contents and September 2007 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. By Order dated November 17, 2007, the Court consolidated these cases under the caption In re RAIT Financial Trust Securities Litigation (No. 2:07-cv-03148), and appointed a lead plaintiff and lead counsel. On August 17, 2007, a putative shareholders’ derivative action was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania naming us, as nominal defendant, and certain of our executive officers and trustees as defendants. On February 10, 2009 a putative shareholders’ derivative action was filed in the Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County naming us, as nominal defendant, and certain of our executive officers and trustees as defendants. An adverse resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For further information, see “Legal Proceedings.” Our board of trustees may change our policies without shareholder consent. Our board of trustees determines our policies and, in particular, our investment policies. Our board of trustees may amend our policies or approve transactions that deviate from these policies without a vote of or notice to our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market price of our shares and our ability to make distributions. Our board of trustees cannot take any action to disqualify us as a REIT or to otherwise revoke our election to be taxed as a REIT without the approval of a majority of our outstanding voting shares. Our organizational documents do not limit our ability to enter into new lines of businesses, and we may enter into new businesses, make future strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. Our organizational documents do not limit us to our current business lines. Accordingly, we may pursue growth through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures, which may include entering into new lines of business. In addition, we expect opportunities will arise to acquire other companies, including REITs, managers of investment products or originators of real estate debt. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, enter into joint ventures, or enter into a new line of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with: • the required investment of capital and other resources, • the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk, and • combining or integrating operational and management systems and controls and • compliance with applicable regulatory requirements including those required under the Internal Revenue Code and the Investment Company Act. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. If a new business generates insufficient revenue or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputation damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. We engage in transactions with related parties and our policies and procedures regarding these transactions may be insufficient to address any conflicts of interest that may arise. Under our code of business conduct, we have established procedures regarding the review, approval and ratification of transactions which may give rise to a conflict of interest between us and any employee, officer, trustee, their immediate family members, other businesses under their control and other related persons. In the ordinary course of our business operations, we have ongoing relationships and have engaged in transactions with several related entities. These procedures may not be sufficient to address any conflicts of interest that may arise. 20 Table of Contents Quarterly results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore, you should not rely on past quarterly results to be indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among others, variations in our investment origination volume, variations in the timing of repayments, variations in the amount of time between our receipt of the proceeds of a securities offering and our investment of those proceeds in loans or real estate interests, market conditions that result in increased cost of funds, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. Risks Related to Our Investments Payment defaults and other credit risks in our investment portfolio have substantially increased, and may continue to increase, in all categories of our investment portfolio, which has caused, and may continue to cause, adverse effects on our cash flow, net income and ability to make distributions. Global recessionary economic conditions and adverse developments in the credit markets have led to business contraction, liquidity issues and other problems for many of the companies we finance. As a result, payment defaults and other credit risks in our investment portfolio have substantially increased, and may continue to increase, in all categories of our investment portfolio, which has caused, and may continue to cause, adverse effects on our cash flow, net income and ability to make distributions. Our portfolio of TruPS has been adversely affected by, and may continue to be adversely affected by, adverse economic developments affecting the business sectors in which our borrowers operate, including homebuilders, residential mortgage providers, commercial mortgage providers, office, specialty finance, retail, hospitality and storage resulting in a substantial reduction in their fair value which adversely affects our financial performance and a substantial decrease in the cash flow we receive from the securitizations holding TruPS. We cannot assure you that the fair value we reflect for any asset or liability in any particular reporting period will not change adversely in a subsequent reporting period. We have increased, and may continue to increase, our loan loss reserves against our portfolios of commercial real estate investments and residential mortgage backed securities, or RMBS, due to general business and economic conditions and increased credit and liquidity risks which have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our portfolio of commercial real estate investments has been adversely affected by, and may continue to be adversely affected by, adverse economic developments affecting the business sectors in which our borrowers operate, including multi-family, office, and retail, reductions in the value of commercial real estate generally and the reduced availability of refinancing for commercial real estate investments as they mature. We cannot assure you that the loan loss reserves we adopt in any particular reporting period will be sufficient or will not increase in a subsequent reporting period. If we are unable to improve the performance of commercial real estate properties we take control of in connection with restructurings, workouts and foreclosures of investments, our financial performance may be adversely affected. We have taken control of an increasing number of the properties underlying our commercial real estate investments in connection with restructurings, workouts and foreclosures of these investments. If we are unable to improve the performance of these properties from their performance under their prior owners, our financial performance may be adversely affected. Any properties we consolidate may be required to be reflected at lower values on our financial statements. We may not realize gains or income from investments and have realized, and may continue to realize, losses from some of our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation. However, our investments may not appreciate in value and, in fact, a substantial portion of our investments have declined, and may continue to decline, in value. In addition, some of the financings that we originated and the loans and securities in which we 21 Table of Contents invest have, and may continue to, default on interest and/or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains or income from investments and may realize losses. Any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Any income that we realize may not be sufficient to offset our respective expenses. Our investment portfolio may have material geographic, sector, property-type and sponsor concentrations. We have material geographic concentrations related to investments in residential mortgage loans, RMBS, commercial real estate loans and CMBS. The REITs and real estate operating companies in whose securities we invest in may also have material geographic concentrations related to their investments in real estate, loans secured by real estate or other investments. We also have material concentrations in the property types that comprise our commercial loan portfolio and in the industry sectors that comprise our unsecured securities portfolio. We have material concentrations in the property types that comprise our commercial loan portfolio. We also have material concentrations in the sponsors of properties that comprise our commercial loan portfolio. Where we have any kind of concentration risk in our investments, an adverse development in that area of concentration could reduce the value of our investment and our return on that investment and, if the concentration affects a material amount of our investments, impair our ability to execute our investment strategies successfully, reduce our earnings and reduce our ability to increase or maintain our current level of distributions. Adverse developments in any arrangement with a third party that was the source of a material amount of our investments could adversely impact our growth. Our ability to grow our business depends on our ability to continue generating attractive investment opportunities. We have initiated numerous arrangements with third parties intended to increase our sources for originating investments in real estate. If any arrangement with a particular third party, whether through these programs or otherwise, becomes the source of a large percentage of our investments, any adverse developments in such an arrangement could impair our growth. Failure of arrangements with third parties could reduce our ability to originate assets. Usury statutes may impose interest ceilings and substantial penalties for violations. Interest we charge on our investments, which may include amounts received from appreciation interests, may be subject to state usury laws. These laws impose maximum interest rates that may be charged on loans and penalties for violation, including repayment of excess interest and unenforceability of debt. We seek to structure our loans so that we do not violate applicable usury laws, but uncertainties in determining the legality of interest rates and other borrowing charges under some statutes may result in inadvertent violations. Longer term, subordinate and non-traditional loans and our consolidated real estate interests may be illiquid and their value may decrease. Our commercial real estate loans and our consolidated real estate interests are relatively illiquid investments and we may be unable to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions. As a result, the fair market value of our portfolio may decrease in the future. Our subordinated real estate investments such as mezzanine loans and preferred equity interests in entities owning real estate involve increased risk of loss. We invest in mezzanine loans and other forms of subordinated financing, such as investments consisting of preferred equity interests in entities owning real estate. Because of their subordinate position, these subordinated investments carry a greater credit risk than senior lien financing, including a substantially greater risk of 22 Table of Contents non-payment. If a borrower defaults on our subordinated investment or on debt senior to us, our subordinated investment will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid off, which may result in our being unable to recover the full amount, or any, of our investment. A decline in the real estate market could adversely affect the value of the property so that the aggregate outstanding balances of senior liens may exceed the value of the underlying property. Where debt senior to our investment exists, the presence of inter-creditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through “standstill” periods) and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Bankruptcy and borrower litigation can significantly increase the time needed for us to acquire underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value. In addition, there are significant costs and delays associated with the foreclosure process. In the event of a default on a senior loan, we may elect to make payments, if we have the right to do so, in order to prevent foreclosure on the senior loans. When we originate or acquire a subordinated investment, we may not have the right to service senior loans. The servicers of the senior loans are responsible to the holders of those loans, whose interests will likely not coincide with ours, particularly in the event of a default. Accordingly, the senior loans may not be serviced in a manner advantageous to us. It is also possible that, in some cases, a “due on sale” clause included in a senior mortgage, which accelerates the amount due under the senior mortgage in case of the sale of the property, may apply to the sale of the property if we foreclose, increasing our risk of loss. We have loans that are not collateralized by recorded or perfected liens on the real estate underlying our loans. Some of the loans not collateralized by liens are secured instead by deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure, also known as “pocket deeds.” A deed-in-lieu of foreclosure is a deed executed in blank that the holder is entitled to record immediately upon a default in the loan. Loans that are not collateralized by recorded or perfected liens are subordinate not only to existing liens encumbering the underlying property, but also to future judgments or other liens that may arise as well as to the claims of general creditors of the borrower. Moreover, filing a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure with respect to these loans will usually constitute an event of default under any related senior debt. Any such default would require us to assume or pay off the senior debt in order to protect our investment. Furthermore, in a borrower’s bankruptcy, we will have materially fewer rights than secured creditors and, if our loan is secured by equity interests in the borrower, fewer rights than the borrower’s general creditors. Our rights also will be subordinate to the lien-like rights of the bankruptcy trustee. Moreover, enforcement of our loans against the underlying properties will involve a longer, more complex, and likely, more expensive legal process than enforcement of a mortgage loan. In addition, we may lose lien priority in many jurisdictions, to persons who supply labor and materials to a property. For these and other reasons, the total amount that we may recover from one of our investments may be less than the total amount of that investment or our cost of an acquisition of an investment. Acquisitions of loans may involve increased risk of loss. When we acquire existing loans, they are subject to general risks described in this section. When we acquire loans at a discount from both the outstanding balances of the loans and the appraised value of the properties underlying the loans; the loans typically are in default under the original loan terms or other requirements and are subject to forbearance agreements. A forbearance agreement typically requires a borrower to pay to the lender all revenue from a property after payment of the property’s operating expenses in return for the lender’s agreement to withhold exercising its rights under the loan documents. Acquiring loans at a discount involves a substantially higher degree of risk of non-collection than loans that conform to institutional underwriting criteria. We do not acquire a loan unless material steps have been taken toward resolving problems with the loan, or its underlying property. However, previously existing problems may recur or other problems may arise. Financing with high loan-to-value ratios may involve increased risk of loss. A loan-to-value ratio is the ratio of the amount of our financing, plus the amount of any senior indebtedness, to the appraised value of the property underlying the loan. Most of our financings have loan-to-value ratios in excess of 80% and many have loan-to-value ratios in excess of 90%. We expect to continue to hold loans with 23 Table of Contents high loan-to-value ratios. By reducing the margin available to cover fluctuations in property value, a high loan-to-value ratio increases the risk that, upon default, the amount obtainable from the sale of the underlying property may be insufficient to repay the financing. Lease expirations, lease defaults and lease terminations may adversely affect our revenue. Lease expirations, lease defaults and lease terminations may result in reduced revenue from our real estate interests if the lease payments received from replacement tenants are less than the lease payments received from the expiring, defaulting or terminating tenants. In addition, lease defaults by one or more significant tenants, lease terminations by tenants following events causing significant damage to the property or takings by eminent domain, or the failure of tenants under expiring leases to elect to renew their leases, could cause us to experience long periods with reduced or no revenue from a facility and to incur substantial capital expenditures in order to obtain replacement tenants. We may need to make significant capital improvements to our properties in order to remain competitive. The properties underlying our consolidated real estate interests may face competition from newer, more updated properties. In order to remain competitive, we may need to make significant capital improvements to these properties. In addition, in the event we need to re-lease a property, we may need to make significant tenant improvements. The costs of these improvements could impair our financial performance. Uninsured and underinsured losses may affect the value of, or our return from, our real estate interests. Our properties, and the properties underlying our loans, have comprehensive insurance in amounts we believe are sufficient to permit the replacement of the properties in the event of a total loss, subject to applicable deductibles. There are, however, certain types of losses, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and terrorism that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Also, inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might make it impractical to use insurance proceeds to replace a damaged or destroyed property. If any of these or similar events occurs, it may reduce our return from an affected property and the value of our investment. Real estate with environmental problems may create liability for us. The existence of hazardous or toxic substances on a property will adversely affect its value and our ability to sell or borrow against the property. Contamination of real estate by hazardous substances or toxic wastes not only may give rise to a lien on that property to assure payment of the cost of remediation, but also can result in liability to us as owner, operator or lender for that cost. Many environmental laws can impose liability whether we know of, or are responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses, and may materially limit our use of our properties and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, future or amended laws, or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing environmental requirements, may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Preferred equity investments in REITs and real estate operating companies may involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing and specific risks relating to particular issuers. We may invest in preferred securities, other than TruPS, of REITs and real estate operating companies, depending upon our ability to finance such assets directly or indirectly in accordance with our financing strategy. Preferred equity investments involve a higher degree of risk than traditional debt financing due to a variety of factors, including that such investments are subordinate to debt and are not secured by property underlying the investment. Furthermore, should an issuer of preferred equity default on our investment, we would only be able to proceed against the issuer, and not the property owned by the issuer. In most cases, a preferred equity holder 24 Table of Contents has no recourse against an issuer for a failure to pay stated dividends; rather, unpaid dividends typically accrue and the preferred shareholder maintains a liquidation preference in the event of a liquidation of the issuer of the preferred securities. An issuer may not have sufficient assets to satisfy any liquidation preference to which we may be entitled. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investments in preferred equity securities. Our investments in unsecured REIT note receivables are subject to the risks of investing in subordinated real estate-related securities, which may result in losses to us. REITs generally are required to invest substantially in operating real estate or real estate-related assets and are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate-related investments. Our investments in TruPS and other REIT securities are also subject to the risks described below with respect to mortgage-backed securities and similar risks, including • risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and the resulting risks of loss, • the dependence upon the successful operation of and net income from real property, • risks generally incident to interests in real property, and • risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular property. Unsecured REIT securities are generally subordinated to other obligations of the issuer and are not secured by specific assets of the REIT. Investments in REIT securities are also subject to risks of: • limited liquidity in the secondary trading market, • substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates, • subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer, • the operation of mandatory sinking fund or call/redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest premature redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets, • the possibility that earnings of the REIT issuer may be insufficient to meet its debt service and dividend obligations, and • the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer of such REIT securities during periods of rising interest rates or economic downturn. These risks may impair the value of outstanding REIT securities and the ability of the issuers of such securities to repay principal and interest or make dividend payments. Prepayment rates on TruPS, mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities could reduce the value of our investments, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and impair our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. The value of the TruPS, mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, mortgage-backed securities and, possibly, other securities in which we invest may be reduced by prepayment rates. For example, higher than expected prepayment rates will likely result in interest-only securities retained by us in the mortgage loan securitizations and securities that we acquire at a premium to diminish in value. Prepayment rates are influenced by changes in current interest rates, availability of credit and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control, and consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty. Borrowers tend to prepay their financings faster when interest rates decline. In these circumstances, we would have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, borrowers tend not to prepay on their financings when interest rates increase. Consequently, we would be unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher 25 Table of Contents prevailing interest rates. This volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our investment portfolio, and may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. The guarantees of principal and interest related to the mortgage-backed securities in which we may invest directly or indirectly provided by the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or the Government National Mortgage Association do not protect investors against prepayment risks. The residential and commercial mortgage loans in which we invest and the residential and commercial mortgage loans underlying the RMBS and CMBS, respectively, in which we invest are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us that may result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We hold substantial amounts of investments in residential mortgage loans and RMBS. Residential mortgage loans and RMBS are secured by single-family residential property and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a residential property depends upon the income or assets of the borrower. A number of factors, including a general economic downturn, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances, may impair borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans. RMBS are securities collateralized by a pool of residential mortgages. Payments on RMBS are dependent upon the performance of the underlying residential mortgages in the pool. We hold substantial portfolios of commercial mortgage loans and CMBS, which are secured by multi-family or other commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically depends primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things: tenant mix, success of tenant businesses, property management decisions, property location and condition, competition from comparable types of properties, changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged, any need to address environmental contamination at the property, the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, declines in regional or local real estate values, declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. In the event of any default under a residential or commercial mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on its cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a residential or commercial mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Legislation is being considered which would permit a bankruptcy judge to alter the terms of a residential mortgage loan in bankruptcy, including reduction of the principal amount of the mortgage and interest rates, which, if enacted, could have an adverse effect on amounts we are able to recover from residential mortgages in bankruptcy that we hold directly or underlying RMBS we hold. Foreclosure of a residential or commercial mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process, which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. RMBS evidence interests in or are secured by pools of residential mortgage loans and CMBS evidence interests in or are secured by a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. Accordingly, the mortgage-backed securities in which we invest are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. 26 Table of Contents In addition, residential mortgage borrowers are not typically prevented by the terms of their mortgage loans from prepaying their loans in whole or in part at any time. Borrowers prepay their mortgages for many reasons, but typically, when interest rates decline, borrowers tend to prepay at faster rates. To the extent that the underlying residential mortgage borrowers in any of our mortgage loan pools or the pools underlying any of our mortgage-backed securities prepay their loans, we will likely receive funds that will have to be reinvested, and we may need to reinvest those funds at less desirable rates of return. Our investments in residential mortgages and mortgage-related receivables consists primarily of investments in adjustable rate residential mortgages. These mortgages bear interest rates that are fixed for three, five, seven and ten year periods, respectively, and reset annually thereafter and are referred to as 3/1, 5/1, 7/1 and 10/1 ARMs, respectively. In the event the interest rate on the residential mortgages at the time of an interest rate adjustment is higher than at thetime of issuance or the prior rate reset, the interest amount payable will increase and the possibility of prepayment or default by the related mortgagors increase. A substantial majority of the mortgage loans in the residential mortgage loan portfolios that we have invested in have an initial interest only period of three, five, seven or ten years, which may result in increased delinquencies and losses. These loans were primarily originated in years 2005 and 2006. During this period, the payment made by the related mortgagor will be less than it would be if the mortgage loan amortized. In addition, the mortgage loan balance will not be reduced by the principal portion of scheduled payments during this period. After the initial interest only period, the scheduled monthly payment on these mortgage loans will increase, which may result in increased delinquencies by the related mortgagors. In addition, losses may be greater on these mortgage loans as a result of the mortgage loan not amortizing during the early years of these mortgage loans. Also, no principal distributions are made to residential mortgage-backed securities holders from interest only loans during their interest only period except in the case of a prepayment, which may extend the weighted average lives of such securities, Our acquisition of investments denominated or payable in foreign currencies may affect our revenues operating margins and distributions and may also affect the book value of our assets and shareholders’ equity. Our investment strategy has historically involved acquiring investments denominated or payable in foreign currencies. As a result, changes in the relation of any such foreign currency to the U.S. dollar may affect our revenue, operating margins and distributions and may also affect the book value of our assets and shareholders’ equity. We have engaged, and may continue to engage, in direct hedging activities to mitigate the risks of exchange rate fluctuations. We may reduce or cease these hedging activities in the future which may increase our exposure to the risks of exchange rate fluctuations. Any income recognized with respect to these hedges (as well as any unhedged foreign currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates) will generally not qualify as eligible income for purposes of either the 75% gross income text or the 95% gross income test that we and Taberna must each satisfy annually in order to qualify as a REIT. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates used to value a REIT’s foreign assets may be considered changes in the value of the REIT’s assets. These changes could cause either or both of us and Taberna to be unable to qualify as a REIT. Further, bank accounts in foreign currencies which are not considered cash or cash equivalents could also cause us or Taberna to be unable to qualify as a REIT. 27 Table of Contents Our international investing strategy will subject us to risks related to adverse political and economic developments, differing laws regarding a lender’s or property owner’s rights and its ability to enforce its rights, availability of financial information conforming to U.S. accounting standards, and the tax treatment of investments, any of which may impair our operations or ability to make distributions. Additionally, foreign real estate investments involve risks not generally associated with investments in the United States. These risks include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, political and economic instability in some geographic locations, potential imposition of adverse or confiscatory taxes, possible challenges to the tax treatment of an investment that could change the treatment from what we expected at the time of investments, possible currency transfer restrictions, expropriation, the difficulty in enforcing obligations in other countries and the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. Each of these risks might impair our performance and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions. In addition, there is typically less publicly available information about foreign companies and a lack of uniform financial accounting standards and practices (including the availability of information in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States) which could impair our ability to analyze transactions and receive the timely and accurate financial information we each need to monitor the performance of our investments and to meet our reporting obligations to financial institutions or regulatory agencies, such as the SEC. Risks Relating to the Fair Value of Our Assets and Liabilities A substantial portion of our assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our management and, as a result, there may be uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Prior to January 1, 2008, we recorded certain of our investments in securities and derivatives at fair value. Upon adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 159 on January 1, 2008, we adjusted the carrying amounts of certain investments in securities, certain CDO notes payable, certain derivative instruments and other assets and liabilities to fair value. Going forward, we will continue to reflect the fair value of these financial assets and liabilities at fair value in our balance sheet, with all changes in fair value recorded in earnings. We expect that most of our investments will be securities or other assets that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We will value these investments quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our management. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these investments existed. If our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments are not realized, we could record a loss upon their disposal. The fair value of our assets and liabilities that we record at their fair value under SFAS 159 has declined, and may continue to decline, substantially, which has had a material adverse effect of our financial performance. The fair value of our investments and related interest rate hedges instruments that we record on our financial statements at their fair value under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, has been adversely affected, and may continue to be adversely affected, by general business and economic conditions and interest rate changes which has adversely effected, and may continue to adversely effect, our financial results. These investments consist primarily of our portfolio of TruPS and subordinated debentures. The fair value of our CDO notes payable and other liabilities we record on our financial statements at their fair value under GAAP has been adversely affected, and may continue to be adversely affected, by general business and economic conditions and increased credit and liquidity risks relating to these liabilities which has had a beneficial effect on our financial performance but, if such fair value increases, that increase would have an adverse effect on our financial performance. 28 Table of Contents The fair value of our CDO notes payable issued by our consolidated Taberna securitizations has reduced substantially faster than fair value of the assets collateralizing those securitizations and, if the fair value of the CDO notes payable increases to approximate that of the underlying assets, that would have a material adverse effect on our earnings and shareholders’ equity. Through December 31, 2008, the cumulative effect of the fair value adjustments recorded on each financial asset and liability selected for the fair value option under SFAS No. 159 resulted in a net increase in shareholders’ equity of $215.0 million, principally as a result of adjustments in the fair value of our CDO notes payable and other liabilities. This increase in shareholders’ equity may reverse through earnings as an unrealized loss in the future. For example, in the event our CDO notes payable were to recover some or all of their par amount at a speed that exceeds any recovery of par amount by our investments in securities, the difference in the respective par amount recoveries could adversely affect earnings and our shareholders’ equity. Given the market conditions referred to above and the volatility in interest rates and the credit performance of our underlying collateral, we cannot assure you that there will not be further significant fluctuations in the fair value of our assets and liabilities subject to SFAS No. 159, which could have a material effect on our financial performance. Interest rate changes may reduce the value of our investments. Changes in interest rates affect the market value of our investment portfolio. In general, the market value of a loan will change in inverse relation to an interest rate change where a loan has a fixed interest rate or only limited interest rate adjustments. Accordingly, in a period of rising interest rates, the market value of such a loan will decrease. Moreover, in a period of declining interest rates, real estate loans with rates that are fixed or variable only to a limited extent may have less value than other income-producing securities due to possible prepayments. Interest rate changes will also affect the return we obtain on new loans. In particular, during a period of declining rates, our reinvestment of loan repayments may be at lower rates than we obtained in prior investments or on the repaid loans. Also, increases in interest rates on debt we incur may not be reflected in increased rates of return on the investments funded through such debt, which would reduce our return on those investments. Accordingly, interest rate changes may materially affect the total return on our investment portfolio, which in turn will affect the amount available for distribution to shareholders. The value of our investments depends on conditions beyond our control. Our investments include loans secured directly or indirectly by real estate, interests in entities whose principal or sole assets are real estate or direct ownership of real estate. As a result, the value of these investments depends primarily upon the value of the real estate underlying these investments which is affected by numerous factors beyond our control including general and local economic conditions, neighborhood values, competitive overbuilding, weather, casualty losses, occupancy rates and other factors beyond our control. The value of this underlying real estate may also be affected by factors such as the costs of compliance with use, occupancy and similar regulations, potential or actual liabilities under applicable environmental laws, changes in interest rates and the availability of financing. Income from a property will be reduced if a significant number of tenants are unable to pay rent or if available space cannot be rented on favorable terms. Operating and other expenses of this underlying real estate, particularly significant expenses such as mortgage payments, insurance, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally do not decrease when income decreases and, even if revenue increases, operating and other expenses may increase faster than revenues. Any investment may also be affected by a borrower’s failure to comply with the terms of our investment, its bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or its properties becoming subject to foreclosure proceedings, all of which may require us to become involved in expensive and time-consuming litigation. Some of our investments defer some portion of our return to loan maturity or the mandatory redemption date. The borrower’s ability to satisfy these deferred obligations may depend upon its ability to obtain suitable refinancing or to otherwise raise a substantial amount of cash. These risks may be subject to the same considerations we describe in this “Risks Related to Our Investments” section. 29 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Use of Derivatives and Hedging Instruments Our hedging transactions may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk, which could cause volatility in our earnings. Subject to limits imposed by our desire to maintain our and Taberna’s respective qualification as a REIT, we enter into hedging transactions to limit exposure to changes in interest rates. We are therefore exposed to risks associated with such transactions. We have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, interest rate swap agreements. We may also use instruments such as forward contracts and interest rate caps, currency swaps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of portfolio positions from changes in market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we would not be able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of hedging transactions undertaken by us will depend on our ability to structure and execute effective hedges for the assets we hold and, to a degree, on our ability to anticipate interest rate or currency value fluctuations, the expected life of our assets or other factors. Our failure to do so may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Changes in fair value can be caused by changes in interest rates that are not fully hedged. To the extent that we fail to hedge fully against adverse fluctuations in interest rates, our earnings will be reduced or we could have losses. Accounting for hedges under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, is extremely complicated. We may fail to qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with GAAP, which could have a material effect on our earnings as described above. While we use hedging to mitigate certain risks, our failure to completely insulate the portfolios from those risks may cause greater volatility in our earnings. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks of default by the hedging counterparty and illiquidity. Subject to maintaining our and Taberna’s respective qualification as a REIT, part of our investment strategy involves entering into puts and calls on securities or indices of securities, interest rate swaps, caps and collars, including options and forward contracts, and interest rate lock agreements, principally Treasury lock agreements, to seek to hedge against mismatches between the cash flows from our assets and the interest payments on our liabilities. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. Legislation is being considered to create a clearing house for hedging instruments. We cannot assure you what the impact of this legislation would be on our existing hedging instruments or our ability to enter into hedges. 30 Table of Contents The business failure of a counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we entered into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, we may not always be able to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. A liquid secondary market may not exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may have to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. Our ability to enter into hedging transactions at commercially reasonable rates may be limited by developments relating to the counterparties we used historically and economic and credit market conditions generally. Most of the counterparties under our outstanding hedging instruments are affiliates of investment banks that have subsequently been acquired by other financial institutions. We cannot assure you that as our outstanding hedges reach their termination dates or as we seek to enter into new hedging transactions, that our historical counterparties or other institutions with acceptable credit ratings will enter into hedging transactions with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. While most of our hedging instruments have termination dates in 2014 or later, we have hedges that will terminate in each year prior to 2014. If we cannot enter into interest rate hedges on commercially reasonable terms, our exposure to interest rate risk will increase. The risk of defaults by our counterparties may increase as the markets for hedging transactions shrink and become more volatile. We may enter into hedging instruments that could expose us to unexpected losses in the future. We may enter into hedging instruments that would require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, for example, upon the early termination of the instrument caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the instrument. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open positions with the counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These losses will be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts like the interest rate swaps we use to limit our exposure to interest rate movements. Most of our derivative contracts require us to fund cash payments upon the early termination of a derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. In addition, some of these derivative arrangements require that we maintain specified percentages of cash collateral with the counterparty to fund potential liabilities under the derivative contract. We may have to make cash payments in order to maintain the required percentage of collateral with the counterparty. These economic losses would be reflected in our results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations would depend on the liquidity of our respective assets and access to capital at the time. The need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. Our due diligence may not reveal all of an entity’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in the entity’s business. Before originating a loan or investment for, or making a loan to or investment in, an entity, we will assess the strength and skills of the entity’s management and other factors that we believe will determine the success of the loan or investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we expect to rely on the available resources and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly 31 Table of Contents important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. As a result, there can be no assurance that the due diligence processes we conduct will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. Tax Risks We or Taberna may fail to qualify as a REIT, and such failure to qualify would have significant adverse consequences on the value of our common shares. In addition, if we or Taberna fail to qualify as a REIT, such entity’s dividends will not be deductible, and the entity will be subject to corporate-level tax on its net taxable income, which would reduce the cash available to make distributions. We and Taberna believe that each of us has been organized and operated in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT. Neither we nor Taberna has requested or plan to request a ruling from the IRS that we qualify as a REIT and any statements in our or Taberna’s filings with the SEC are not binding on the IRS or any court. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our or Taberna’s control may also affect our respective abilities to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we and Taberna must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the composition of our respective assets and sources of our respective gross income. Also, we and Taberna must make distributions to our respective shareholders (in Taberna’s case, principally us) aggregating annually at least 90% of our respective net taxable incomes, excluding net capital gains. In addition, our and Taberna’s ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we and Taberna have no control or limited influence, including in cases where we and Taberna own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership or REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As an example, to the extent we invest in preferred equity securities of other REIT issuers, our qualification as a REIT will depend upon the continued qualification of such issuers as REITs under the Internal Revenue Code. Accordingly, unlike other REITs, we may be subject to additional risk regarding our ability to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT. The reduction in our rate of originating new assets, operations and liquidity may adversely impact RAIT and Taberna’s respective ability to meet REIT requirements and we may be less able to make changes to our investment portfolio to adjust our respective REIT qualifying assets and income depended on ability to deploy capital and maintain assets under management. There can be no assurance that we or Taberna will be successful in operating in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our and Taberna’s investors, our and Taberna’s ability to qualify as a REIT or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. If Taberna fails to qualify as a REIT, then we also would very likely fail to qualify as a REIT, because Taberna common and preferred shares make up a significant portion of our total assets and because we will likely receive substantial dividend income from Taberna. If we or Taberna fail to qualify as a REIT or lose our qualification as a REIT at any time, we or it will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to its shareholders (in the case of Taberna, primarily us) for each of the years involved because: • we or Taberna would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our respective shareholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we or Taberna also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless statutory relief provisions apply, we or Taberna could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year of disqualification. In addition, if we or Taberna fail to qualify as a REIT, such entity will not be required to make distributions to its shareholders (in the case of Taberna, primarily us), and all distributions to shareholders will be subject to 32 Table of Contents tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits. Moreover, if we or Taberna fail to qualify as a REIT, any taxable mortgage pool securitizations will be treated as separate taxable corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us or Taberna to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT, we and Taberna must continually satisfy various tests regarding sources of income, nature and diversification of assets, amounts distributed to shareholders and the ownership of common shares. In order to satisfy these tests, we and Taberna may be required to forgo investments that might otherwise be made. Accordingly, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our or Taberna’s investment performance. In particular, at least 75% of each of our and Taberna’s total assets at the end of each calendar quarter must consist of real estate assets, government securities, and cash or cash items. For this purpose, “real estate assets” generally include interests in real property, such as land, buildings, leasehold interests in real property, stock of other entities that qualify as REITs, interests in mortgage loans secured by real property, investments in stock or debt instruments during the one-year period following the receipt of new capital and regular or residual interests in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC. In addition, the amount of securities of a single issuer that each of we and Taberna hold must generally not exceed either 5% of the value of such issuer’s gross assets or 10% of the vote or value of such issuer’s outstanding securities. Certain of the assets that we or Taberna hold or intend to hold, including TruPS and unsecured loans to REITs or other entities, will not be qualified real estate assets for the purposes of the REIT asset tests. In addition, although preferred equity securities of REITs (which would not include TruPS) should generally be treated as qualified real estate assets, this will require that (i) they are treated as equity for U.S. tax purposes, and (ii) their issuers maintain their qualification as REITs. CMBS and RMBS securities should generally qualify as real estate assets. However, to the extent that we or Taberna own non-REMIC collateralized mortgage obligations or other debt instruments secured by mortgage loans (rather than by real property) or secured by non-real estate assets, or debt securities issued by corporations that are not secured by mortgages on real property, those securities will likely not be qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests. We or Taberna generally will be treated as the owner of any assets that collateralize a securitization transaction to the extent that we or Taberna retain all of the equity of the securitization entity and do not make an election to treat such securitization entity as a TRS, as described in further detail below. As noted above, in order to comply with the REIT asset tests and 75% gross income test, at least 75% of each of our and Taberna’s total assets and 75% of gross income must be derived from qualifying real estate assets, whether or not such assets would otherwise represent our or Taberna’s best investment alternative. For example, since neither TruPS nor equity in corporate entities that hold TruPS, such as securitizations, will be qualifying real estate assets, Taberna (and we, to the extent that we invest in such assets) must hold substantial investments in qualifying real estate assets, including mortgage loans and CMBS and RMBS securities, which typically have lower yields than TruPS. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including any mortgage loans, held in inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The prohibited transaction tax may apply to any sale of assets to a securitization and to any sale of securitization securities, and therefore may limit our and Taberna’s ability to sell assets to or equity in securitizations and other assets. It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax and the holding of assets not qualifying as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests by conducting certain activities, holding non-qualifying REIT assets or engaging in securitization transactions through our or Taberna’s TRSs, subject to certain limitations as described below. To the extent that we or Taberna engage in such activities through TRSs, the income associated with such activities may be subject to full U.S. federal corporate income tax. 33 Table of Contents Neither TruPS nor equity in corporate entities, such as issuers of securitizations that hold TruPS, will qualify as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and the income generated by such investments generally will not qualify as real estate-related income for the REIT gross income tests. We and Taberna must continue to invest in qualifying real estate assets, such as mortgage loans and debt securities secured by real estate, to maintain its REIT qualification, and these assets typically generate less attractive returns than TruPS which could result in reduced returns to Taberna, and therefore to our shareholders. Neither TruPS nor equity in corporate entities, such as issuers of securitizations, that hold TruPS will qualify as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests that Taberna must meet on a quarterly basis to maintain its qualification as a REIT. We use the term “securitizations” to refer to either the issuer of securitizations or the securitizations themselves, where the context makes the reference clear. The income received from Taberna’s investments in TruPS or in corporate entities holding TruPS generally will not qualify as real estate-related income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. Accordingly, Taberna will be limited in its ability to originate TruPS or maintain its investments in TruPS or entities created to hold TruPS if Taberna does not invest in sufficient qualifying real estate assets. Taberna will continue to originate and invest in TruPS and in REIT-eligible assets, such as mortgage loans, residential mortgage-backed securities, or RMBS, and commercial mortgage-backed securities, or CMBS. If Taberna fails to make sufficient investments in qualifying real estate assets, Taberna will likely fail to maintain its REIT qualification, which could cause Taberna to be subject to significant taxes and RAIT to fail to maintain its REIT qualification and be subject to significant taxes. REIT qualifying investments typically are lower yielding than Taberna’s expected returns on TruPS. Accordingly, maintaining sufficient amounts of REIT qualifying investments could result in reduced returns to Taberna, and therefore to our shareholders. Furthermore, if income inclusions from Taberna’s foreign taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs, which are securitizations are determined not to qualify for the REIT 95% gross income test, Taberna could fail to qualify as a REIT, or even if it did not fail to qualify as a REIT, Taberna could be subject to a penalty tax. In addition, Taberna would need to invest in sufficient qualifying assets, or sell some of its interests in its foreign TRSs which are securitizations to ensure that the income recognized by Taberna from its foreign TRSs which are securitizations does not exceed 5% of Taberna’s gross income. See “We or Taberna may lose our or its REIT qualification or be subject to a penalty tax if the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, successfully challenges our or its characterization of income from our or its foreign TRSs which are securitizations.” Any reduction in Taberna’s net taxable income would have an adverse effect on its liquidity, and its ability to pay distributions to us. Each of our and Taberna’s qualifications as a REIT and exemption from U.S. federal income tax with respect to certain assets may be dependent on the issuers of the REIT securities in which we and Taberna invest maintaining their REIT qualification and the accuracy of legal opinions rendered to or statements made by the issuers of securities, including securitizations, in which we and Taberna invest. When purchasing securities issued by REITs, we and Taberna may rely on opinions of counsel for the issuer of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents, for purposes of determining whether such issuer qualifies as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes and whether such securities represent debt or equity securities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and therefore to what extent those securities constitute REIT real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produce income which qualifies under the 75% REIT gross income test. In addition, when purchasing securitization equity, we and Taberna may rely on opinions of counsel regarding the qualification of the securitization for exemption from U.S. corporate income tax. The inaccuracy of any such opinions or statements may adversely affect our or Taberna’s REIT qualification and/or result in significant corporate-level tax. In addition, if the issuer of any REIT equity securities in which we or Taberna invest were to fail to maintain its qualification as a REIT, the securities of such issuer held by us or Taberna will fail to qualify as real estate assets for purposes of maintaining REIT qualification and the income generated by such securities will not represent qualifying income for purposes of the 75% REIT gross income test and therefore could cause us or Taberna to fail to qualify as a REIT. 34 Table of Contents We and Taberna own interests in “taxable mortgage pools,” which may subject us to U.S. federal income tax, increase the tax liability of our shareholders and limit the manner in which we and Taberna effect securitizations. We and Taberna have entered, and will likely continue to enter into transactions that result in us or Taberna or a portion of our or Taberna’s assets being treated as a “taxable mortgage pool” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Specifically, we securitized portfolios of loans and other real estate assets that we had originated and will likely do so in the future, and Taberna has securitized portfolios of mortgage loans and will likely in the future securitize RMBS or CMBS assets that Taberna acquires. Such securitizations will result in us and Taberna owning interests in a taxable mortgage pool. We and Taberna have entered, and expect to continue to enter into such transactions at the REIT level. To the extent that all or a portion of us or Taberna is treated as a taxable mortgage pool, or we or Taberna make investments or enter into financing and securitization transactions that give rise to us or Taberna being considered to own an interest in one or more taxable mortgage pools, a portion of net taxable income may be characterized as “excess inclusion income” and allocated to Taberna’s shareholders or our shareholders, generally in the same manner as if the taxable mortgage pool were a REMIC. Excess inclusion income is an amount, with respect to any calendar quarter, equal to the excess, if any, of (i) income allocable to the holder of a residual interest in a REMIC, during such calendar quarter over (ii) the sum of amounts allocated to each day in the calendar quarter equal to its ratable portion of the product of (a) the adjusted issue price of the interest at the beginning of the quarter multiplied by (b) 120% of the long-term federal tax rate (determined on the basis of compounding at the close of each calendar quarter and properly adjusted for the length of such quarter). The U.S. Treasury Department has issued guidance on the tax treatment of shareholders of a REIT that owns an interest in a taxable mortgage pool. Shareholders should be aware that we and Taberna expect to engage in transactions that will likely result in a significant portion of Taberna’s dividend income to us, and of our income from any taxable mortgage pool in which we own interests, being considered excess inclusion income. We are taxed at the highest corporate income tax rate on the excess inclusion income arising from a taxable mortgage pool that is allocable to the percentage of our shares held by “disqualified organizations,” which are generally certain cooperatives, governmental entities and tax-exempt organizations that are exempt from tax on unrelated business taxable income, or UBTI, under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. We believe that disqualified organizations own and will continue to own our shares. Because this tax would be imposed on us, all of our shareholders, including shareholders that are not disqualified organizations, would bear a portion of the tax cost associated with the classification of us or Taberna or a portion of our or its assets as a taxable mortgage pool. If a shareholder is a tax-exempt entity and not a disqualified organization, then this excess inclusion income would be fully taxable as UBTI. If a shareholder is a foreign person, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this income without reduction or exemption pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. If the shareholder is a REIT, regulated investment company (“RIC”), common trust fund or other pass-through entity, its allocable share of excess inclusion income would be considered excess inclusion income of such entity and such entity will be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to its owners that are disqualified organizations. In addition, to the extent Taberna or RAIT realizes excess inclusion income and allocates it to shareholders, this income cannot be offset by net operating losses of its shareholders. Moreover, if we or Taberna sell equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool securitization (or debt securities that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes), such securitization would be treated as a separate corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and would potentially be subject to corporate income tax. In addition, this characterization would alter our or Taberna’s REIT income and asset test calculations and would adversely affect compliance with those requirements. The tax consequences of such a characterization could effectively prevent us or Taberna from using certain techniques to maximize returns from securitization transactions. Finally, if we or Taberna fail to qualify as a REIT, these taxable mortgage pool securitizations will be treated as separate taxable corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 35 Table of Contents We or Taberna may lose our or its REIT qualification or be subject to a penalty tax if the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, successfully challenges our or its characterization of income from foreign TRSs which are securitizations. We and Taberna are required to include in income, in certain cases, even without the receipt of actual distributions, earnings from foreign TRSs that are securitizations or other foreign corporations that are not qualified REIT subsidiaries. Taberna treats, and we intend to treat, certain of these income inclusions as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test applicable to REITs but not for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test. The provisions that set forth what income is qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test provide that gross income derived from dividends, interest and certain other classes of passive income qualify for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Income inclusions from equity investments in our and Taberna’s foreign TRSs are technically neither dividends nor any of the other enumerated categories of income specified in the 95% gross income test for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and there is no clear precedent with respect to the qualification of such income. However, based on advice of counsel, we and Taberna intend to treat such inclusions, to the extent distributed by a foreign TRS in the year it was accrued, as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Nevertheless, because this income does not meet the literal requirements of the REIT provisions, the IRS might take the position that such income is not qualifying income. In the event that such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we or Taberna could fail to qualify as a REIT. Even if such income does not cause us or Taberna to fail to qualify as a REIT because of certain relief provisions, we or Taberna would be subject to a penalty tax with respect to such income because such income, together with other non-qualifying income earned by us or Taberna, has exceeded and will exceed 5% of its gross income. This penalty tax, if applicable, would be calculated by multiplying the amount by which our or Taberna’s non-qualifying income exceeds 5% of our or Taberna’s total gross income by a fraction intended to reflect our or Taberna’s profitability. In addition, if such income were determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we or Taberna would need to invest in sufficient qualifying assets, or sell some interests in foreign TRSs which are securitizations or other foreign corporations that are not qualified REIT subsidiaries to ensure that the income recognized by us or Taberna from foreign TRSs which are securitizations or such other foreign corporations does not exceed 5% of our or Taberna’s gross income. Taberna’s other foreign TRSs, Taberna Ireland and RAIT Securities UK, intend to operate in a manner so that their earnings will not be required to be included in Taberna’s income until such earnings are actually distributed by such foreign TRSs. In the event the IRS were to successfully challenge such characterization of the operations of Taberna Ireland or RAIT Securities UK, and Taberna is required to recognize income earned by Taberna Ireland or RAIT Securities UK on a current basis or otherwise recognize additional income with respect to such TRSs, Taberna could fail to qualify as a REIT or be subject to the penalty tax described above. We and Taberna will pay taxes. Even if we and Taberna qualify as REITs for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and Taberna will be required to pay U.S. federal, state and local taxes on income and property. In addition, our and Taberna’s domestic TRSs are fully taxable corporations that will be subject to taxes on their income, and they may be limited in their ability to deduct interest payments made to us and Taberna. We and Taberna also will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain amounts if the economic arrangements among us and Taberna and TRSs are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties or if we or Taberna receives payments for inventory or property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We may be taxable at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of the income arising from a taxable mortgage pool that is allocable to shares held by “disqualified organizations.” In addition, under certain circumstances we or Taberna could be subject to a penalty tax for failure to meet certain REIT requirements but nonetheless maintains its qualification as a REIT. For example, we or Taberna may be required to pay a penalty tax with respect to income earned in connection with securitization equity in the event such income is determined not to be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 95% gross income test but we or Taberna are otherwise able to remain qualified as a REIT. To the extent that we or Taberna or the TRSs are required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, we or Taberna will have less to distribute to shareholders. 36 Table of Contents Failure to make required distributions would subject us or Taberna to tax, which would reduce the ability to pay distributions to our and its shareholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, we and Taberna must distribute to our and its shareholders each calendar year at least 90% of REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we or Taberna satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of net taxable income, we or Taberna will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax. In addition, we or Taberna will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our or its distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85% of ordinary income for that year; • 95% of capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% undistributed taxable income from prior years. We and Taberna intend to distribute our and its net income to our and its shareholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. There is no requirement that Taberna’s domestic TRSs, such as Taberna Capital, Taberna Securities and Taberna Funding, distribute their after-tax net income to Taberna and such TRSs may, to the extent consistent with maintaining Taberna’s qualification as a REIT, determine not to make any current distributions to Taberna. However, Taberna’s non-U.S. TRSs, such as Taberna Equity Funding, Ltd., and Taberna’s consolidated securitization subsidiaries (but not Taberna Ireland or RAIT Securities UK), will generally be deemed to distribute their earnings to Taberna on an annual basis for U.S. federal income tax purposes, regardless of whether such TRSs actually distribute their earnings. Our or Taberna’s taxable income may substantially exceed its net income as determined by GAAP because, for example, expected capital losses will be deducted in determining its GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing its taxable income. GAAP net income may also be reduced to the extent we or Taberna have to “markdown” the value of assets to reflect their current value. Prior to the sale of such assets, those mark-downs do not comparably reduce taxable income. In addition, we or Taberna may invest in assets including the equity of securitization entities that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as phantom income. This “phantom income” may arise for us in the following ways: • Repurchase of our debt at a discount, including our convertible notes or CDO notes payable, will generally result in our recognizing REIT taxable income in the form of cancellation of indebtedness income generally equal to the amount of the discount. Recent legislation permits the deferral of taxes coming about through debt buybacks at a discount in certain circumstances. • Origination of loans with appreciation interests may be deemed to have original issue discount for federal income tax purposes. Original issue discount is generally equal to the difference between an obligation’s issue price and its stated redemption price at maturity. This “discount” must be recognized as income over the life of the loan even though the corresponding cash will not be received until maturity. • Our loan terms may provide for both an interest “pay” rate and “accrual” rate. When this occurs, we recognize interest based on the sum of the pay rate and the accrual rate, but only receive cash at the pay rate until maturity of the loan, at which time all accrued interest is due and payable. • Our loans or unconsolidated real estate interests may contain provisions whereby the benefit of any principal amortization of the underlying senior debt inures to us. We recognize this benefit as income as the amortization occurs, with no related cash receipts until repayment of our loan. • Sales or other dispositions of consolidated real estate interests, as well as significant modifications to loan terms may result in timing differences between income recognition and cash receipts. 37 Table of Contents Although some types of phantom income are excluded to the extent they exceed 5% of our or Taberna’s net income in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we or Taberna will incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we or Taberna do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we or Taberna may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we or Taberna may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we or it regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid U.S. federal corporate income tax and the 4% deductible excise tax in that year. Generally, dividends payable in stock are not treated as dividends for purposes of the deduction for dividends, or as taxable dividends to the recipient. A complex set of rules applies when a distribution is made partially in stock and partially in cash and different shareholders receive different proportions of each. The Internal Revenue Service, in Revenue Procedure 2009-15, has given guidance with respect to certain stock distributions by publicly traded REITS (and RICs). That Revenue Procedure applies to distributions made on or after January 1, 2008 and declared with respect to a taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2009. It provides that publicly-traded REITS can distribute stock (common shares in our case) to satisfy their REIT distribution requirements if stated conditions are met. These conditions include that at least 10% of the aggregate declared distributions be paid in cash and the shareholders be permitted to elect whether to receive cash or stock, subject to the limit set by the REIT on the cash to be distributed in the aggregate to all shareholders. RAIT did not use this Revenue Procedure with respect to any distributions for its 2008 taxable year, but may do so for distributions with respect to 2009. If our or Taberna’s securitizations or Taberna’s subsidiaries, Taberna Ireland or RAIT Securities UK, are subject to U.S. federal income tax at the entity level, it would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us or Taberna and pay their creditors. Taberna’s consolidated securitization subsidiaries are organized as Cayman Islands companies, and we may own similar foreign securitization’s in the future. There is a specific exemption from U.S. federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We and Taberna intend that the consolidated securitization subsidiaries and any other non-U.S. securitizations that are TRSs will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. Taberna Ireland is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Taberna organized under the laws of Ireland that provides sub-advisory services to Taberna Capital and receives a fee from Taberna Capital for its services. RAIT Securities UK is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Taberna organized under the laws of the United Kingdom that is expected to originate securities and to receive origination fees from issuers in connection with its origination activities. Taberna Ireland and RAIT Securities UK intend to operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their net income. If the IRS were to succeed in challenging the tax treatment of our or Taberna’s securitizations, Taberna Ireland or RAIT Securities UK, it could greatly reduce the amount that those securitizations, Taberna Ireland and RAIT Securities UK would have available to distribute to their shareholders and to pay to their creditors. Any reduced distributions would reduce amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. Our and Taberna’s ownership of and relationship with TRSs will be limited, and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our and its REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In 38 Table of Contents addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Taberna Capital, Taberna Securities, Taberna Funding and any domestic TRSs that we own or that we or Taberna acquire in the future will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution but will not be required to be distributed. The value of the securities that we or Taberna hold in TRSs may not be subject to precise valuation. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we or Taberna will be able to comply with the 20% limitation discussed above or avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. Compliance with REIT requirements may limit our and Taberna’s ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code limit our and Taberna’s ability to hedge mortgage-backed securities, preferred securities and related borrowings. Except to the extent provided by the regulations promulgated by the U.S. Treasury Department, or the Treasury regulations, any income from a hedging transaction we or Taberna enter into in the normal course of business primarily to manage risk of interest rate or price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made, or ordinary obligations incurred or to be incurred, to acquire or carry real estate assets, which is clearly identified as specified in the Treasury regulations before the close of the day on which it was acquired, originated, or entered into, including gain from the sale or disposition of such a transaction, will not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (and will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test). To the extent that we or Taberna enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result, we or Taberna might have to limit use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through TRSs. This could increase the cost of our or Taberna’s hedging activities or expose it or us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we or it would otherwise want to bear. Taberna and RAIT may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common shares. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. Taberna and RAIT could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. Origination fees we receive will not be REIT qualifying income. We must satisfy two gross income tests annually to maintain qualification as a REIT. First, at least 75% of our gross income for each taxable year must consist of defined types of income that we derive, directly or indirectly, from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property or temporary investment income. Qualifying income for purposes of that 75% gross income test generally includes: • rents from real property, • interest on debt secured by mortgages on real property or on interests in real property, and • dividends or other distributions on and gain from the sale of shares in other REITs. 39 Table of Contents Second, in general, at least 95% of our gross income for each taxable year must consist of income that is qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, dividends, other types of interest, gain from the sale or disposition of stock or securities, income from certain interest rate hedging contracts, or any combination of the foregoing. Gross income from any origination fees we obtain or from our sale of property that we hold primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is excluded from both income tests. Any origination fees we receive will not be qualifying income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests applicable to REITs under the Internal Revenue Code. We typically receive initial payments, or “points,” from borrowers as commitment fees or additional interest. So long as the payment is for the use of money, rather than for other services provided by us, we believe that this income should not be classified as non-qualifying origination fees. However, the Internal Revenue Service may seek to reclassify this income as origination fees instead of commitment fees or interest. If we cannot satisfy the Internal Revenue Code’s income tests as a result of a successful challenge of our classification of this income, we may not qualify as a REIT. A portion of the dividends we distribute may be deemed a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. The amount of dividends we distribute to our common shareholders in a given quarter may not correspond to our taxable income for such quarter. Consequently, a portion of the dividends we distribute may be deemed a return of capital for federal income tax purposes, and will not be taxable but will reduce shareholders’ basis in the underlying common shares. Our ability to use TRSs, and consequently our ability to establish fee-generating businesses and invest in securitizations, will be limited by the election made by Taberna and us, respectively, to be taxed as a REIT, which may adversely affect returns to our shareholders. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of securities of one or more TRSs. Taberna Capital, Taberna Securities, Taberna Capital (Ireland) Ltd., which we refer to as Taberna Ireland, RAIT Securities (U.K.) Ltd., which we refer to as RAIT Securities UK, Taberna Funding LLC, which we refer to as Taberna Funding, Taberna Equity Funding and our non-U.S. corporate subsidiaries are TRSs. We expect to own interests in additional TRSs in the future, particularly in connection with our securitization transactions. However, our ability to invest in securitizations that are structured as TRSs and to expand the fee-generating businesses of Taberna Capital and Taberna Securities, as well as the business of Taberna Funding, RAIT Securities UK and future TRSs we may form, will be limited by our and Taberna’s need to meet this 20% test, which may adversely affect distributions we pay to our shareholders. Other Regulatory and Legal Risks of Our Business Our reputation, business and operations could be adversely affected by regulatory compliance failures, the potential adverse effect of changes in laws and regulations applicable to our business and effects of negative publicity surrounding the securitization market or real estate industry in general. Potential regulatory action poses a significant risk to our reputation and thereby to our business. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and in the other countries in which our investment activities occur. We operate our business so as to comply with the Internal Revenue Code’s REIT rules and regulations and so as to remain exempt from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. The SEC and the National Association of Securities Dealers, or NASD, oversee the activities of our broker dealer subsidiary. In addition, we are subject to regulation under the Exchange Act, the Investment Advisers Act and various other statutes. A number of our investing activities, such as our lending business, are subject to regulation by various U.S. state regulators. In the United Kingdom, we are subject to regulation by the U.K. Financial Services Authority. With respect to our operations and investments in other countries, we are subject to a variety of regulatory regimes that vary country by country. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of our business, including the authority to 40 Table of Contents grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular businesses. A failure to comply with the obligations imposed by any of the regulations binding on us or to maintain any of the licenses required to be maintained by us could result in investigations, sanctions and reputation damage. The accounting rules applicable to certain of our transactions are highly complex and require the application of significant judgment and assumptions by our management. In addition, changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our financial statements. Accounting rules for transfers of financial assets, hedging transactions, securitization transactions, consolidation of variable interest entities, or VIEs, and other aspects of our operations are highly complex and require the application of judgment and assumptions by management. These complexities could lead to delay in preparation of financial information. In addition, changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our financial statements. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the price of our common shares may be reduced. We are required to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations. Any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that needs to be addressed, disclosure of management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, or disclosure of our public accounting firm’s report on internal control over financial reporting that reports a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting may reduce the price of our common shares. In connection with its audit of Taberna’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, Taberna and its independent registered public accounting firm identified deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting that were “material weaknesses” as defined by standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The deficiencies related to Taberna’s and the predecessor entities’ accounting for hedging arrangements and the predecessor entities’ accounting for a tax election made by them prior to the consummation of Taberna’s initial private placement. Taberna has restated the financial statements of its predecessor entities to correct the accounting for the tax election and the hedging matter. We have engaged an unaffiliated firm that specializes in hedging activity to assist in the execution and documentation of our hedging activities; however, we cannot assure you that our internal control over financial reporting will not be subject to material weaknesses in the future. Loss of our Investment Company Act exemption would affect us adversely. We seek to conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company. Under Section 3(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act, a company is not deemed to be an “investment company” if: • it neither is, nor holds itself out as being, engaged primarily, nor proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; and • it neither is engaged nor proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and does not own or propose to acquire “investment securities” having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets on an unconsolidated basis, which we refer to as the 40% test. “Investment securities” excludes U.S. government securities and securities of majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. We rely on the 40% test. Because we are a holding company that conducts our businesses through wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiaries, the securities issued by our subsidiaries that are excepted from the definition of “investment company” under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, 41 Table of Contents together with any other investment securities we may own, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis. In fact, based on the relative value of our investment in Taberna, on the one hand, and our investment in RAIT Partnership, on the other hand, we can comply with the 40% test only if Taberna satisfies the 40% test on which it relies (or another exemption other than Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7)) and RAIT Partnership complies with Section 3(c)(5)(c) or 3(c)(6), the exemptions upon which it relies (or another exemption other than Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7)). This requirement limits the types of businesses in which we may engage through our subsidiaries. Because RAIT Partnership and the two wholly-owned subsidiaries through which we hold 100% of the partnership interests in RAIT Partnership—RAIT General, Inc. and RAIT Limited, Inc.—will not be relying on Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) for their respective Investment Company Act exemptions, our investments therein will not constitute “investment securities” for purposes of the 40% test, if RAIT Partnership is otherwise exempt from the Investment Company Act. RAIT Partnership, our subsidiary that holds, directly and through wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiaries, a substantial portion of our assets, intends to conduct its operations so that it is not required to register as an investment company in reliance on the exemption from Investment Company Act regulation provided under Section 3(c)(5)(c). RAIT Asset Holdings LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of RAIT Partnership also intends to be exempt from Investment Company Act regulation under Section 3(c)(5)(c). RAIT Partnership may also from time to time rely on the exemption from Investment Company Act regulation provided under Section 3(c)(6). Any entity relying on Section 3(c)(5)(c) for its Investment Company Act exemption must have at least 55% of its portfolio invested in qualifying assets (which in general must consist of mortgage loans, mortgage backed securities that represent the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans and other liens on and interests in real estate) and another 25% of its portfolio invested in other real estate-related assets. Based on no-action letters issued by the Staff of the SEC, we classify our investments in mortgage loans as qualifying assets, as long as the loans are “fully secured” by an interest in real estate. That is, if the loan-to-value ratio of the loan is equal to or less than 100%, then we consider the loan to be a qualifying asset. We do not consider loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of 100% to be qualifying assets that come within the 55% basket, but only real estate-related assets that come within the 25% basket. Based on a recent no-action letter issued by the Staff of the SEC, we treat most of our mezzanine loans as qualifying assets because we usually obtain a first lien position on the entire ownership interest of a special purpose entity, or SPE, that owns only real property, or that owns the entire ownership interest in a second SPE that owns only real property, and otherwise comes within the conditions of the no-action letter and we treat any remaining mezzanine loans as real estate-related assets that come within the 25% basket. The treatment of other investments as qualifying assets and real estate-related assets, including equity investments in subsidiaries, is based on the characteristics of the underlying asset, in the case of a directly held investment, or the characteristics of the assets of the subsidiary, in the case of equity investments in subsidiaries. Any entity relying on Section 3(c)(6) for its Investment Company Act exemption must be primarily engaged, directly or through majority-owned subsidiaries, in one or more specified businesses, including a business described in Section 3(c)(5)(c), or in one or more of such businesses (from which not less than 25% of its gross income during its last fiscal year was derived), together with an additional business or businesses other than investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. As of December 31, 2006, less than 55% of RAIT Partnership’s assets constituted qualifying assets. RAIT Partnership brought its assets into compliance with the 55% test on January 9, 2007. For the period of non-compliance, we relied for our exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act upon Rule 3a-2, which provides a safe harbor exemption, not to exceed one year, for companies that have a bona fide intent to be engaged in an excepted activity but that temporarily fail to meet the requirements for another exemption from registration as an investment company. RAIT Partnership was in compliance with the 55% test 42 Table of Contents at September 30, 2006. As required by the rule, after we learned that we were out of compliance, our Board of Trustees promptly adopted a resolution declaring our bona fide intent to be engaged in excepted activities and we restored our assets to compliance. Reliance upon Rule 3a-2 is permitted only once every three years. As a result, if RAIT Partnership fails to meet either the 55% test or the 25% test of Section 3(c)(5)(c), or if we otherwise fail to maintain our exclusion from registration, within that three year period, and another exemption is not available, we may be required to register as an investment company, or we or RAIT Partnership may be required to acquire and/or dispose of assets in order to meet the Section 3(c)(5)(c) or other tests for exclusion. Any such asset acquisitions or dispositions may be of assets that we or RAIT Partnership would not acquire or dispose of in the ordinary course of our business, may be at unfavorable prices or may impair our ability to make distributions to shareholders and result in a decline in the price of our common shares. If we are required to register under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), and portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters. Accordingly, registration under the Investment Company Act could limit our ability to follow our current investment and financing strategies, impair our ability to make distributions to our common shareholders and result in a decline in the price of our common shares. Taberna, like RAIT, is a holding company that conducts its operations through subsidiaries. Accordingly, we intend to monitor Taberna’s holdings such that it will satisfy the 40% test. Similar to securities issued to us, the securities issued to Taberna by its subsidiaries that are excepted from the definition of “investment company” by Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities Taberna may own, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of its total assets on an unconsolidated basis. This requirement limits the types of businesses in which Taberna may engage through these subsidiaries. We make the determination of whether an entity is a majority-owned subsidiary of RAIT, RAIT Partnership or Taberna. The Investment Company Act defines a majority-owned subsidiary of a person as a company 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of which are owned by such person, or by another company which is a majority-owned subsidiary of such person. The Investment Company Act further defines voting securities as any security presently entitling the owner or holder thereof to vote for the election of directors of a company. We treat companies, including future CDO subsidiaries, in which we own at least a majority of the outstanding voting securities as majority-owned subsidiaries for purposes of the 40% test. Neither RAIT, RAIT Partnership nor Taberna has requested the SEC to approve our treatment of any company as a majority-owned subsidiary and the SEC has not done so. If the SEC were to disagree with our treatment of one or more companies, including CDO issuers, as majority-owned subsidiaries, we would need to adjust our respective investment strategies and invest our respective assets in order to continue to pass the 40% test. Any such adjustment in its investment strategy could have a material adverse effect on Taberna and us. A majority of Taberna’s subsidiaries are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder with respect to the assets in which they can invest to avoid being regulated as an investment company. In particular, Taberna’s subsidiaries that issue CDOs generally rely on Rule 3a-7, an exemption from the Investment Company Act provided for certain structured financing vehicles that pool income-producing assets and issue securities backed by those assets. Such structured financings may not engage in portfolio management practices resembling those employed by mutual funds. Accordingly, each Taberna CDO subsidiary that relies on Rule 3a-7 is subject to an indenture which contains specific guidelines and restrictions limiting the discretion of the CDO issuer. Accordingly, the indenture prohibits the CDO issuer from acquiring and disposing of assets primarily for the purpose of recognizing gains or decreasing losses resulting from market value changes. Certain sales and purchases of assets, such as dispositions of collateral that has gone into default or is at risk of imminent default, may be made so long as they do not violate the guidelines contained in each indenture and are not based primarily on changes in market value. The 43 Table of Contents proceeds of permitted dispositions may be reinvested in collateral that is consistent with the credit profile of the CDO under specific and predetermined guidelines. In addition, absent obtaining further guidance from the SEC, substitutions of assets may not be made solely for the purpose of enhancing the investment returns of the holders of the equity securities issued by the CDO issuer. As a result of these restrictions, Taberna’s CDO subsidiaries may suffer losses on their assets and Taberna may suffer losses on its investments in its CDO subsidiaries. Taberna’s subsidiaries that hold real estate assets, Taberna Realty Holdings Trust, Taberna Loan Holdings I, LLC and the mortgage loan securitization trusts that are wholly owned by Taberna Loan Holdings I, LLC, rely on the exemption from registration provided by Section 3(c)(5)(c) of the Investment Company Act because each of these entities owns legal title to whole residential mortgage loans. The restrictions of Section 3(c)(5)(c) will limit the ability of these subsidiaries to invest directly in TruPS, mortgage-backed securities that represent less than the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans, unsecured debt and preferred securities issued by REITs and real estate companies or in assets not related to real estate. Taberna Realty Holdings Trust’s assets consist exclusively of whole residential mortgage loans to which it has legal title. Taberna Loan Holdings I, LLC’s investments consist exclusively of its holdings in the securities of five wholly-owned subsidiaries. Each of these subsidiaries’ assets consists exclusively of whole residential mortgage loans to which it has legal title and the unilateral right to foreclose. We believe that each of these entities is exempt from registration as an investment company pursuant to Section 3(c)(5)(c) under the Investment Company Act. Taberna’s subsidiaries that engage in operating businesses (e.g., Taberna Securities and Taberna Capital) are not subject to the Investment Company Act. To the extent Taberna Realty Holdings Trust, Taberna Loan Holdings I, LLC or another subsidiary of Taberna invests in other types of assets such as RMBS, CMBS and mezzanine loans, we will not treat such assets as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of determining the subsidiary’s eligibility for the exemption provided by Section 3(c)(5)(c) unless such treatment is consistent with the guidance of the SEC as set forth in non-action letters, interpretative guidance or an exemptive order. If the combined value of the investment securities issued to Taberna by its subsidiaries that are excepted by Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities Taberna may own, exceeds 40% of Taberna’s total assets on an unconsolidated basis, Taberna may be required either to substantially change the manner in which it conducts its operations or to rely on Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) to avoid having to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on Taberna and us. If Taberna were to rely on Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7), then we would no longer comply with our own exemption from registration as an investment company. None of RAIT, RAIT Partnership or Taberna has received a no-action letter from the SEC regarding whether it complies with the Investment Company Act or how its investment or financing strategies fit within the exclusions from regulation under the Investment Company Act that it is using. To the extent that the SEC provides more specific or different guidance regarding, for example, the treatment of assets as qualifying real estate assets or real estate-related assets, we may be required to adjust these investment and financing strategies accordingly. Any additional guidance from the SEC could provide additional flexibility to us and Taberna, or it could further inhibit the ability of Taberna and our combined company to pursue our respective investment and financing strategies which could have a material adverse effect on us. See Item 1-”Business-Certain REIT and Investment Company Act Limits On Our Strategies-Investment Company Act Limits.” Our ownership limitation may restrict business combination opportunities. To qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of each taxable year. To preserve our REIT qualification, our declaration of trust generally prohibits any person from owning more than 8.3% or, with respect to our original promoter, Resource America, Inc., 15%, of our outstanding common shares and provides that: • A transfer that violates the limitation is void. • A transferee gets no rights to the shares that violate the limitation. 44 Table of Contents • Shares acquired that violate the limitation transfer automatically to a trust whose trustee has all voting and other rights. • Shares in the trust will be sold and the record holder will receive the net proceeds of the sale. The ownership limitation may discourage a takeover or other transaction that our shareholders believe to be desirable. Preferred shares may prevent change in control. Our declaration of trust authorizes our board of trustees to issue preferred shares, to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued, to classify any unissued preferred shares and reclassify any previously classified but unissued preferred shares, without shareholder approval. The issuance of preferred shares could delay or prevent a change in control, apart from the ownership limitation, even if a majority of our shareholders want control to change. Maryland anti-takeover statutes may restrict business combination opportunities. As a Maryland REIT, we are subject to various provisions of Maryland law which impose restrictions and require that specified procedures be followed with respect to the acquisition of “control shares” representing at least ten percent of our aggregate voting power and certain takeover offers and business combinations, including, but not limited to, combinations with persons who own one-tenth or more of our outstanding shares. While we have elected to “opt out” of the control share acquisition statute, our board of trustees has the right to rescind the election at any time without notice to our shareholders. If our subsidiary that is a registered investment adviser fails to comply with the Investment Advisers Act, this could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage securitizations. Our subsidiaries, RAIT Partnership, L.P., or RAIT Partnership, and Taberna Capital Management, LLC, or Taberna Capital Management, are registered investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or the Investment Advisers Act, and, as such, are supervised by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. We did this so that RAIT Partnership and Taberna Capital Management could manage increasing numbers of securitizations. The Investment Advisers Act requires registered investment advisors to comply with numerous obligations, including record-keeping requirements, operational procedures and disclosure obligations. Such subsidiaries may also be registered with various states and thus, subject to the oversight and regulation of such states’ regulatory agencies. If we do not comply with these requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our securitizations. Our failure to maintain a broker-dealer license in the various jurisdictions in which we do business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, has granted our membership application for a broker-dealer license for our subsidiary, Taberna Securities, LLC, or Taberna Securities. We also are required to maintain licenses with state securities regulators. Failure to maintain Taberna Securities’ licenses as a broker- dealer with the FINRA and applicable state regulators would prevent us from originating securities and supplementing our revenue with origination fees paid to Taberna Securities by the issuers of those securities. In that event, we may need to engage a third-party broker-dealer to act as an originator and to permit a third-party broker-dealer to retain origination fees. If Taberna Securities is unable to receive origination fees, it would have less cash available for distribution to RAIT. If our subsidiary that is regulated by the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority fails to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, this could have an adverse effect on our ability to originate securities and receive origination fees in foreign jurisdictions. Our subsidiary, RAIT Securities (UK), Ltd, or RAIT Securities (UK), is subject to extensive government regulation, primarily by the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority under the U.K. Financial Services and 45 Table of Contents Markets Act of 2000. Failure of RAIT Securities (UK) to comply with applicable regulatory requirements would prevent us from originating securities and supplementing our revenue with origination fees paid to RAIT Securities (UK) by the issuers of those securities. In that event, we may need to engage a third-party permitted by applicable regulations to act as an originator and to permit this third-party to retain origination fees. If RAIT Securities (UK) is unable to receive origination fees, it would have less cash available for distribution to RAIT. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 