Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report, should be carefully considered in evaluating our company and our business. Our business is vulnerable to changing economic conditions and current unfavorable economic conditions have and could continue to negatively impact the play levels of our bingo and box equipment, our product sales, and our ability to collect outstanding receivables from our customers. Existing unfavorable domestic and international general economic conditions reduce disposable income of bingo and casino patrons and result in fewer patrons. This decline in disposable income likely results in reduced play levels on our bingo and box equipment, causing our cash flows and revenues from our recurring revenue products to decline. Current unfavorable economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening in credit markets, decreased liquidity in many financial markets, and resulted in significant volatility in the credit and equity markets. A decline in the relative health of the gaming industry and the difficulty or inability of our customers to obtain adequate levels of capital to finance their ongoing operations would reduce their resources available to purchase our products and services, which would adversely affect our revenues. Current unfavorable economic conditions could impact the ability of our customers to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may incur additional provisions for bad debt. Failure to comply with Nevada regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have unconditional licenses from the Nevada Gaming Commission (the “Commission”) as a publicly traded corporation and we are licensed (i) solely a manufacturer (ii) or solely a distributor (iii) or both as a manufacturer and distributor of gaming devices (iv) an operator of a mobile gaming system, and (v) an operator of an inter-casino linked system. Additionally, our officers and directors are suitable to hold such positions in the Company. The foregoing licenses, findings of suitability, and related approvals are subject to an annual renewal process set forth by the Nevada Gaming Commission for all license holders. Under Nevada gaming law all directors, officers and 10% or greater shareholders of companies seeking registration and licensing by the Commission are required to file a licensing application and receive a finding of suitability at the discretion of the Commission on the recommendation of the Gaming Board. Our equipment is subject to evaluation and approval by the state of Nevada prior to product placement or installation. Each of our products that are in distribution in Nevada have been submitted to and approved by the state of Nevada. If we are ever denied a renewal of our Nevada licenses, we may not be able to place our electronic bingo systems or slot machines with Nevada customers and, depending upon the reason for the denial, may be required to relocate our operations outside the state, which may have a material adverse effect or our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If our electronic bingo units were classified as Class III bingo systems under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, we may not be able to obtain the necessary approvals to operate our business, or we may have to modify our systems to remain classified as Class II bingo systems. Our operations in Native American gaming halls, which generated approximately 16% of our bingo revenue during fiscal 2009, are subject to Native American and federal regulation under IGRA, which established the National Indian Gaming Commission, or NIGC. The NIGC has the authority to adopt rules and regulations to enforce certain aspects of IGRA and to protect Native American interests. Under IGRA, electronic bingo devices similar to ours have previously been determined by the NIGC to be Class II products that are subject solely to Native American regulation as approved by the NIGC. We believe our electronic bingo systems meet all of the requirements of a Class II game. We cannot provide assurance that the NIGC will not enact future regulations or reinterpret existing regulations in such a manner so as to limit the authority of tribes to self-regulate Class II gaming or to change the definition of Class II gaming in such a manner that our electronic bingo systems are classified as a Class III game under IGRA. If classified as Class III games, our electronic bingo systems could become subject to federal and state regulation through the Johnson Act and through tribal-state compacts required for Class III games played on Native American lands. In that event, or in the event other federal laws are enacted or interpreted differently that would subject our operations on Native American lands to state regulation, we may not be able to modify our electronic bingo systems to be classified as Class II games, or we may not obtain the necessary state approval and licenses to continue our operations in Native American gaming halls. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Any modifications of our electronic bingo systems would also have the additional risk that such modifications would not appeal to customers or be acceptable to the Native American tribes. -14- Our compliance with several governmental and other regulations is costly and subjects our company to significant risks. We must maintain the existing licenses and approvals necessary to operate in our existing markets and obtain the necessary licenses, approvals, findings of suitability, and product approvals in all additional jurisdictions in which we intend to distribute our products. The licensing and approval processes can involve extensive investigation into our company and our products, officers, directors, certain personnel, significant stockholders, and other associated parties, all of which can require significant expenditures of time and resources. We must also comply with applicable regulations for our activities in any international jurisdiction into which we conduct business. We may not receive licensing or other required approvals in a timely manner in the jurisdictions in which we are currently seeking such approval. The regulations relating to company and product licensing are subject to statutory amendment and/or change in interpretation, and other jurisdictions, including the federal government, may elect to regulate or tax bingo, box or other gaming products. We cannot predict the nature of any such changes or the impact that such changes would have on our business. The loss of a license in a particular jurisdiction may prohibit us from generating revenue in that jurisdiction, may prohibit us from installing or maintaining our terminals in other jurisdictions, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Business combinations and investments present risk, and we may not be able to realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of the transaction, which could materially affect our financial results. We have invested in strategic initiatives that we believe will expand our geographic reach, product lines, and/or customer base. We may encounter difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies and/or products, or an acquisition may prove to be less valuable than the price we paid. Any of these events or circumstances may require us to record substantial impairment charges on goodwill and other intangible assets, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. Moreover, as we continue the process of evaluating our business in conjunction with an assessment of the Company’s long-term strategic goals, we will also further evaluate past and potential investments to determine if and how they will fit into our organizational structure going forward. If an event or change occurs in affiliate relationships or agreements associated with business combinations, we may be required to reassess cash flows, recoverability, useful lives, and fair value measurements, which may result in material impairment charges. If deterioration of the economy continues, this could cause additional financial and stock market declines, which could lead to reduced earnings and could result in future goodwill impairments . In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $15.7 million related to our acquisition of Summit, representing all of the remaining goodwill for our box division. This was based on a combination of factors, including the current economic environment, decreased revenues, particularly in the box segment. As of November 1, 2009, the remaining goodwill amounted to $10.2 million, all of which is the bingo division. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of the use of our assets or the strategy for our overall business and significant negative industry or economic trends. If current economic conditions worsen causing decreased revenues and increased costs we may have further goodwill impairments. For additional information see Item 7 “Impairment of Long –lived Assets, Goodwill and Intangible Assets”. -15- If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting or remediate any future material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and our stock price. Our internal controls over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable reports and prevent fraud. We believe that a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within a company have been detected. We cannot guarantee that we will not identify significant deficiencies and/or material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future, and our failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our outstanding credit facility subjects us to financial covenants which may limit our flexibility. Servicing our Credit Facility requires a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate the required cash depends on our ability to successfully manage our business and upon other factors some of which are beyond our control. The agreement governing the debt contains substantial affirmative and restrictive covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. A breach of any of our obligations under the debt agreement can result in a default allowing the Lenders to elect to declare all amounts outstanding together with accrued interest to be immediately due and payable. The financial covenants include a cash flow leverage ratio, fixed charge coverage ratio, working capital requirement and liquidity requirement. The non-financial covenants include restrictions on asset divestitures; liens; transactions with related parties; limitations on additional indebtedness; mergers, acquisitions and consolidations; cash dividends; redemptions of stock; and change of control. As of November 1, 2009, the outstanding balance on our term loan was $27.4 million and we were in compliance with all the covenants as amended. For additional information see Note 4 “Credit Agreements and Acquisition of Real Property” to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein. We must continue to meet NASDAQ Global Market continued listing requirements or we risk delisting. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. In order to maintain that listing, we are required to satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing requirements, including, without limitation, maintaining a $1.00 per share minimum closing bid price for our common stock. If the closing bid price of our common stock is below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days, we could receive notice from NASDAQ stating that the minimum bid price of our common stock is below continued listing standards. To regain compliance, our common stock would need to close at $1.00 or more for any 10 consecutive business days during the 180 calendar days following our receipt of the notice. If we are unable to regain compliance within 180 calendar days, NASDAQ would determine whether we meet the initial listing criteria for the NASDAQ Capital Market other than the bid price requirement. If we met such criteria, we would be afforded an additional 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. Given current economic conditions and the volatility of our stock price, there is no guarantee that we will be in compliance with the NASDAQ Global Market’s minimum bid requirement when the suspension is lifted. If we are unable to meet the minimum bid, or if we fail to satisfy any other continued listing standard under the NASDAQ Global Market rules, NASDAQ may commence delisting proceedings against us. If we were to be delisted, the market liquidity of our common stock would likely be adversely affected and the market price of our common stock would likely decrease. In addition, our stockholders’ ability to trade or obtain quotations on our shares could be severely limited because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask price of our common stock. -16- Our success depends on our ability to respond to rapid market changes and product enhancements. Our products utilize hardware components developed primarily for the personal computer industry, which is characterized by rapid technological change and product enhancements. Should any of our current or potential competitors succeed in developing a better electronic bingo system or box, those competitors could be in a position to outperform us in our ability to exploit developments in microprocessor, video technology, or other multimedia technology. The emergence of an electronic bingo system or box that is superior to ours in any respect could substantially diminish our revenue and limit our ability to grow. Any failure of our company to respond to rapid market changes and product enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We must retain and extend our existing relationships with customers and secure new customers. We derive all of our revenue and cash flow from our portfolio of contracts to lease electronic bingo products to customers as well as from our relationships with established customers in our box markets. Our bingo lease contracts are primarily for terms ranging from one to three years and not all contracts preclude customers from using electronic bingo products of our competitors. Upon the expiration of a contract, a customer may decide to use a competitive bidding process to award a new contract. We may be unsuccessful in winning the new contract or be forced to reduce the pricing structure in the new contract. Our box customers have multiple choices of suppliers of gaming equipment, and we may be unable to attract and retain customers in those markets. Our inability to attract new and retain existing box customers at terms acceptable to us, could, depending on the circumstances, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We depend on our relationships with our distributors. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from customers serviced through distributors in both the bingo and box business. Our bingo distributors place our products with our customers and often maintain the primary relationship with the bingo halls. Generally, we, or our distributors enter into one- to three-year agreements with customers for the use of our systems and terminals. We rely on our distributors exclusively in the states in which the law requires us to place our systems and terminals through qualified distributors. The loss of our relationship with one or more of our distributors may require us to develop our internal sales force or engage new distributors to place our systems and terminals, which could be time consuming and expensive. The loss of one or more of our significant distributors may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As of November 1, 2009, there was one distributor that represented approximately 42% of the consolidated accounts receivable balance, and approximately 87% of the box accounts receivable balance. We rely on the Louisiana, Texas, and Mississippi markets for a significant portion of our revenue. The concentration of our revenue in the Louisiana, Texas, and Mississippi markets heightens our exposure to regulatory changes or market changes that may prevent or impede us from doing business in those states. The Louisiana market generated 75.6% of box revenue and 16.3% of consolidated revenue; the Texas market generated 15.3% of bingo revenue and 12.5% of consolidated revenue, while the Mississippi market generated 7.7% of bingo revenue and 6.3% of consolidated revenue. Furthermore, the loss of or inability of our company to find suitable distributors in Texas and Louisiana, where state law requires electronic bingo devices and systems to be placed through qualified distributors, could cause a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The electronic bingo and box gaming industries are extremely competitive. The electronic bingo industry is characterized by intense competition based on, among other things, the ability to enhance the operations of and to generate incremental sales for bingo operators through product appeal to players, ease of use, ease of serviceability, customer support and training, distribution, name recognition, and price. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced operating margins, conversion of terminals from lease to sale, and loss of market share. We believe server-based gaming will be the next significant technological development in the gaming industry. The continuing development of server-based gaming will require additional resources that could be allocated to other areas, and the failure to effectively bring server-based gaming to market could have a negative impact on our financial condition. All of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The box industry is also characterized by intense competition that is based upon the ability to develop new gaming content that will appeal to a variety of gaming customers. Increased competition may result in a need to increase game development activity, price reductions, providing extended payment terms, or increased commissions to distributors. -17- Additionally, many of our competitors do not face the same level of public company costs and administrative costs that we face. Furthermore, existing and new competitors may expand their operations in our existing or potential new markets. In addition, our electronic bingo business competes with other similar forms of entertainment, including casino gaming and lotteries. In Native American casinos, competition for space on the casino and bingo room floor is very intense. All forms of gaming compete for square footage at Native American casinos. We can make no assurances that Native American casinos currently leasing our equipment will not significantly limit the play of bingo or eliminate it entirely. Additionally, as we expand into new Class II and Class III markets we will face intense competition from existing competitors who have many years of established track records in those markets. We can make no assurances that we can successfully penetrate these markets with our newly developed Class II and Class III gaming machines. Investors may not be able to exercise control over our company as a result of our Chairman’s ownership. Our Chairman of the Board, Richard Fedor, beneficially owns approximately 17% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, the Chairman of our company can significantly influence the management and affairs of our company and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, even when such change of control is in the best interests of stockholders. This concentration of ownership might also adversely affect the market price of the common stock and the voting and other rights of the Company’s other stockholders. We must be able to attract and retain skilled employees. Our success depends largely on recruiting and retaining talented employees. The market for qualified executives and highly skilled, technical workers is intensely competitive. The loss of key employees or an inability to hire a sufficient number of technical staff could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Acquisitions could divert management’s time and attention, dilute the voting power of existing stockholders, and have a material adverse effect on our business. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire complementary businesses and assets. Acquisitions that we may make in the future could result in the diversion of time and personnel from our existing business. We also may issue shares of common stock or other securities in connection with acquisitions, which could result in the dilution of the voting power of existing stockholders and could dilute earnings per share. Any acquisitions would be accompanied by other risks commonly encountered in such transactions, including the following: · difficulties integrating the products, operations, and personnel of acquired companies; · the additional financial resources required to fund the operations of acquired companies; · the potential disruption of our business; · our ability to maximize our financial and strategic position by the incorporation of acquired technology or businesses with our product offerings; · the difficulty of maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures, and policies; · the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies; · the impairment of employee and customer relationships as a result of changes in management; · significant expenditures to consummate acquisitions; and · difficulties in meeting applicable regulatory requirements, including obtaining necessary licenses. -18- As a part of our acquisition strategy, we may engage in discussions with various businesses regarding their potential acquisition. In connection with these discussions, we may exchange confidential operational and financial information with each potential acquired business and each of us may conduct due diligence inquiries and consider the structure, terms, and conditions of the potential acquisition. In certain cases, the parties may agree not to discuss a potential acquisition with any other party for a specific period of time, may grant us certain rights in the event the acquisition is not completed, and may agree to take other actions designed to enhance the possibility of the acquisition. Potential acquisition discussions may take place over a long period of time, may involve difficult business integration and other issues, and may require solutions for numerous family relationships, management succession, and related matters. As a result of these and other factors, potential acquisitions that from time to time appear likely to occur may not result in binding legal agreements and may not be consummated. Our acquisition agreements may contain purchase price adjustments, rights of setoff, and other remedies in the event that certain unforeseen liabilities or issues arise in connection with an acquisition. These remedies, however, may not be sufficient to compensate us in the event that any unforeseen liabilities or other issues arise. Our failure to effectively manage our growth could impair our business. Our growth plans may require full use of our current financial, managerial, and other resources as well as substantial expansion of those resources. In order to manage effectively any significant future growth, we may have to perform various tasks, including the following: · expand our facilities and equipment and further enhance our operational, financial, and management systems; · design, develop, produce, and receive products from third-party suppliers on a timely basis; · develop new and maintain existing distribution channels in order to maximize revenue and profit margins; · effectively manage regulatory risks in various jurisdictions; · successfully hire, train, retain, and motivate additional employees; and · integrate successfully the operations of any acquired businesses with our operations. We plan to expand within our existing markets and into foreign and domestic bingo and lottery terminal markets in which we have no previous operating experience. We may not be able to maintain profitability or manage successfully the aggressive expansion of our existing and planned business. Our failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Economic factors beyond our control may adversely affect our investments and we may incur additional impairment charges to our investment portfolio. As of November 1, 2009, we had $3.9 million of principal invested in Auction Rate Securities (“ARS”), representing interests in collateralized debt obligations supported by pools of residential and commercial mortgages or credit cards, insurance securitizations and other structured credits, including corporate bonds. Some of the underlying collateral for the ARS held by us consists of sub-prime mortgages. With the liquidity issues experienced in global credit and capital markets, the ARS held by us at November 1, 2009 have experienced multiple failed auctions as the amount of securities submitted for sale exceeded the amount of purchase orders. We recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of approximately $3.3 million during fiscal 2008 reflecting the portion of ARS holdings that was an other-than-temporary decline in value. The estimated market value of our ARS holdings at November 1, 2009, was $0.6 million. During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we received a tender offer for one of our eight ARS, which we were able to sell, providing $0.5 million in cash. The credit and capital markets could continue to deteriorate in 2010. If uncertainties in these markets deteriorate further or we experience any additional rating downgrades on any investments in our portfolio (including ARS), we may incur additional impairment charges to our investment portfolio, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings. -19- Sales of additional shares of common stock, or the potential for such sales, could have a depressive effect on the market price of our common stock. As of January 26, 2010, we had 11,735,865 outstanding shares of common stock. Approximately 9.5 million of such shares are eligible for resale in the public market without restriction or further registration. The remaining approximately 2.2 million shares of common stock outstanding are held by affiliates of our company and may be sold without registration only in compliance with the volume and other limitations of Rule 144. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock by stockholders in the public market, or even the potential for such sales, are likely to adversely affect the market price of the common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital by selling equity securities. Moreover, the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of 1,032,450 outstanding options and issuable upon the vesting of 177,165 outstanding restricted stock shares will be freely tradable without restriction unless acquired by affiliates of our company. The issuance of such freely tradable shares will result in additional outstanding shares of common stock and will create additional potential for sales of additional shares of common stock in the public market. We have limited protection of our intellectual property. We regard our products as proprietary and rely primarily on a combination of patent law, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, licensing agreements, and employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights. Defense of intellectual property rights can be difficult and costly, and we may not be able to protect our technology from misappropriation by competitors or others. In addition, the protections offered by trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws may not prevent a competitor from designing electronic bingo systems or box gaming content that have the appearance and functionality that closely resemble our systems. As the number of electronic bingo terminals and boxes increase and the functionality of these products further overlaps, we may become subject to infringement claims, with or without merit. Intellectual property-related claims or litigation can be costly and can result in a significant diversion of management’s attention. Any settlement of such claims or adverse determinations in such litigation could also have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our Stockholders’ Rights Plan may adversely affect existing stockholders. Our Stockholders’ Rights Plan may have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Under the Rights Plan, we issued a dividend of one Preferred Share Purchase Right for each share of our common stock held by stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 17, 2003. In general, subject to certain limited exceptions, the stock purchase rights become exercisable when a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock or a tender offer or exchange offer for 15% or more of our common stock is announced or commenced. After any such event, our other stockholders may purchase additional shares of our common stock at 50% of the then-current market price. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. The rights may be redeemed by us at $0.01 per stock purchase right at any time before any person or group acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. The rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by our board of directors. The rights expire on March 17, 2013. New products require regulatory approval and may be subject to complex and dynamic revenue recognition standards, which could materially affect our financial results. As we introduce new products and transactions become increasingly complex, additional analysis and judgment is required to account for and recognize revenues in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Transactions may include multiple element arrangements and/or software components and applicable accounting principles or regulatory product approval delays could change the timing of revenue recognition and could adversely affect our financial results for any given period. Fluctuations may occur in our deferred revenues and reflect our continued shift toward more multiple element contracts that include systems and software. -20- Current environmental laws and regulations, or those enacted in the future, could result in additional liabilities and costs. The manufacturing of our products may require the use of materials that are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws could increase our costs and impact the availability of components required to manufacture our products. Violation of these laws may subject us to significant fines, penalties or disposal costs, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 