Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report, should be carefully considered in evaluating our company and our business. Our business is vulnerable to changing economic conditions and current unfavorable economic conditions have and could continue to negatively impact the play levels of our bingo and box equipment, our product sales, and our ability to collect outstanding receivables from our customers. Existing unfavorable domestic and international general economic conditions reduce disposable income of bingo and casino patrons and result in fewer patrons. This decline in disposable income likely results in reduced play levels on our bingo and box equipment, causing our cash flows and revenues from our recurring revenue products to decline. Current unfavorable economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening in credit markets, decreased liquidity in many financial markets, and resulted in significant volatility in the credit and equity markets. A decline in the relative health of the gaming industry and the difficulty or inability of our customers to obtain adequate levels of capital to finance their ongoing operations would reduce their resources available to purchase our products and services, which would adversely affect our revenues. Current unfavorable economic conditions could impact the ability of our customers to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may incur additional provisions for bad debt. Economic factors beyond our control may adversely affect our investments and we may incur additional impairment charges to our investment portfolio. As of November 2, 2008, we had $3.9 million of principal invested in Auction Rate Securities (“ARS”), representing interests in collateralized debt obligations supported by pools of residential and commercial mortgages or credit cards, insurance securitizations and other structured credits, including corporate bonds. Some of the underlying collateral for the ARS held by us consists of sub-prime mortgages. The estimated market value of our ARS holdings at November 2, 2008, was $0.6 million, which reflected a $3.3 million adjustment to the principal amount of $3.9 million. Although seven of the eight ARS continue to pay interest according to their stated terms, based on the fair value of the investments and an analysis of other-than-temporary impairment factors, we have recorded an impairment charge of approximately $3.3 million in the 53 weeks ended November 2, 2008. This impairment charge reflects the portion of ARS holdings that is an other-than-temporary decline in value. The credit and capital markets could continue to deteriorate in 2009. If uncertainties in these markets deteriorate further or we experience any additional rating downgrades on any investments in our portfolio (including ARS), we may incur additional impairment charges to our investment portfolio, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings. Compliance with Nevada regulations is time-consuming and expensive and failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our operations. As of November 2, 2008, we were successful in obtaining unconditional licenses from the Nevada Gaming Commission (the “Commission”) as a publicly traded corporation and were licensed as (i) a manufacturer and distributor of gaming devices, (ii) an operator of a mobile gaming system, and (iii) an operator of an inter-casino linked system. Additionally, the Commission found our officers and directors suitable to hold such positions in the company. The foregoing licenses, findings of suitability, and related approvals are subject to an annual renewal process set forth by the Nevada Gaming Commission for all license holders. Under Nevada gaming law all directors, officers and 10% or greater shareholders of companies seeking registration and licensing by the Commission are required to file a licensing application and receive a finding of suitability at the discretion of the Commission on the recommendation of the Gaming Board. Our equipment is subject to evaluation and approval by the state of Nevada prior to product placement or installation. Each of our products that are in distribution in Nevada have been submitted to and approved by the state of Nevada. If we are ever denied a renewal of our Nevada licenses, we may not be able to place our electronic bingo systems or slot machines with Nevada customers and, depending upon the reason for the denial, may be required to relocate our operations outside the state, which may have a material adverse effect or our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 10 If our electronic bingo units were classified as Class III bingo systems under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, we may not be able to obtain the necessary approvals to operate our business, or we may have to modify our systems to remain classified as Class II bingo systems. Our operations in Native American gaming halls, which generated approximately 12.5% of our bingo revenue during fiscal 2008, are subject to Native American and federal regulation under IGRA, which established the National Indian Gaming Commission, or NIGC. The NIGC has the authority to adopt rules and regulations to enforce certain aspects of IGRA and to protect Native American interests. Under IGRA, electronic bingo devices similar to ours have previously been determined by the NIGC to be Class II products that are subject solely to Native American regulation as approved by the NIGC. We believe our electronic bingo systems meet all of the requirements of a Class II game. We cannot provide assurance that the NIGC will not enact future regulations or reinterpret existing regulations in such a manner so as to limit the authority of tribes to self-regulate Class II gaming or to change the definition of Class II gaming in such a manner that our electronic bingo systems are classified as a Class III game under IGRA. If classified as Class III games, our electronic bingo systems could become subject to federal and state regulation through the Johnson Act and through tribal-state compacts required for Class III games played on Native American lands. In that event, or in the event other federal laws are enacted or interpreted differently that would subject our operations on Native American lands to state regulation, we may not be able to modify our electronic bingo systems to be classified as Class II games, or we may not obtain the necessary state approval and licenses to continue our operations in Native American gaming halls. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Any modifications of our electronic bingo systems would also have the additional risk that such modifications would not appeal to customers or be acceptable to the Native American tribes. Our compliance with several governmental and other regulations is costly and subjects our company to significant risks. We must maintain the existing licenses and approvals necessary to operate in our existing markets and obtain the necessary licenses, approvals, findings of suitability, and product approvals in all additional jurisdictions in which we intend to distribute our products. The licensing and approval processes can involve extensive investigation into our company and our products, officers, directors, certain personnel, significant stockholders, and other associated parties, all of which can require significant expenditures of time and resources. We must also comply with applicable regulations for our activities in any international jurisdiction into which we conduct business. We may not receive licensing or other required approvals in a timely manner in the jurisdictions in which we are currently seeking such approval. The regulations relating to company and product licensing are subject to statutory amendment and/or change in interpretation, and other jurisdictions, including the federal government, may elect to regulate or tax bingo, box or other gaming products. We cannot predict the nature of any such changes or the impact that such changes would have on our business. The loss of a license in a particular jurisdiction may prohibit us from generating revenue in that jurisdiction, may prohibit us from installing or maintaining our terminals in other jurisdictions, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our acquisition of Summit Gaming may not produce the results we anticipate. On August 30, 2006, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Summit Amusement & Distributing, Ltd. (“box business”) to acquire substantially all of its assets and assume certain of its liabilities. The closing of the acquisition occurred on March 28, 2007. Our acquisition of the box business was the largest acquisition undertaken by our company. The success of this strategic acquisition will depend in large part on our management’s ability to integrate, maintain and grow the box business. Challenges we face include the following: · the diversion of management time and effort from our existing business, · managing a much larger combined business, including maintaining adequate internal controls, and · maintaining the box business’ customers and growing the customer base and markets. In addition, our box business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, including the following: · its dependence on the video lottery terminal industry, · its dependence on key markets in Montana, Louisiana, South Dakota, West Virginia and Native American casinos, and · its ability to respond to rapid technological change and market demand for product enhancements, and changes in laws and regulations. If deterioration of the economy continues, this could cause additional financial and stock market declines, which could lead to reduced earnings and could result in future goodwill impairments . In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $10.8 million related to our acquisition of Summit. As of November 2, 2008, the remaining goodwill amounted to $25.9 million of which $10.2 million is the bingo division and $15.7 million is the box division. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of the use of our assets or the strategy for our overall business and significant negative industry or economic trends. If current economic conditions worsen causing decreased revenues and increased costs we may have further goodwill impairments. For additional information see Item 7 “Impairment of Long –lived Assets, Goodwill and Intangible Assets”. 11 If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting or remediate any future material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and our stock price. Our internal controls over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable reports and prevent fraud. As of July 31, 2008, we carried out an evaluation under the supervision of our management including the CEO and CFO, and with the participation of an outside accounting firm, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on this evaluation, the CEO and CFO determined that there existed significant deficiencies and possible material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, particularly regarding sufficient documentation issues found in our initial review of the internal controls relative to Summit revenue and other controls, which required remediation. Our management developed and implemented the remediation plan and effectively remediated the possible material weaknesses and the significant deficiencies prior to November 2, 2008. In fiscal 2007, we identified a significant deficiency in our accounting for revenue related to software contracts with multiple delivery elements which could adversely affect our ability to record the financial information in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. An adjustment to our revenue related to a single non-standard arrangement with multiple delivery elements was reflected in our consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2007. Our procedures for review of software contracts with multiple delivery elements were updated and we continued to increase the skill and experience level of senior management. In addition, we developed definitive procedures for the detailed documentation and reconciliations supporting the revenue relating to software contracts with multiple delivery elements, including appropriate review and approval. In fiscal 2005 and 2006, we reported a material weakness and significant deficiency, respectively, in our internal controls relating to our tax liability accounts and related tax provision. This control issue was remediated in fiscal 2007. We believe that a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within a company have been detected. We cannot guarantee that we will not identify significant deficiencies and/or material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future, and our failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We have incurred significant debt in connection with our New Credit Facility and acquired real property. On August 22, 2008, we entered into a Senior Secured Credit Facility (the “New Credit Facility”) with U.S. Bank N.A. as lender, lead arranger and administrative agent, and Bank of the West as lender (collectively “Lenders”) that provides up to $40.0 million of financing. The New Credit Facility is being used (i) to refinance our prior credit facility, (ii) acquire real property as described below, and (iii) for general corporate purposes. The New Credit Facility also provided for a Senior Secured Term Credit Facility (the “Term Loan”) of $38.0 million that required monthly interest payments beginning September 30, 2008, and quarterly principal payments of approximately $1.1 million beginning October 31, 2008, until its maturity on August 28, 2013, when the balance will be due in full. The interest rate for the term loan varies based upon the one-month LIBOR rate plus 2.80%. In connection with the Term Loan agreement, the Company also entered into an interest rate swap agreement with U.S. Bank N. A., which exchanged the variable one-month LIBOR rate of the Term Loan for a fixed LIBOR rate of 3.99% per annum effective August 22, 2008, through the maturity of the Term Loan. As of November 2, 2008, there was $36.9 million outstanding under the Term Loan at an average interest rate of 6.79% and the value of the interest rate swap was ($0.7) million. The New Credit Facility provides a Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility (the “Revolver”) of $2.0 million, maturing on August 31, 2010, with monthly interest-only payments due on the last day of each month beginning September 30, 2008. The Company selects the interest rate calculation for each advance under the Revolver from two allowable interest rate calculations. The first allowed interest rate calculation is the higher of the Agent’s prime rate or the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% (a “Base Rate Loan”) minus 0.25%. The second allowed interest rate calculation is the 1, 2, 3, 6, or 12-month LIBOR rate plus 2.0%. As of November 2, 2008, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolver. On August 22, 2008, and concurrent with the closing of the New Credit Facility, we purchased from RKD Holdings, L.L.C. certain real property in southwest Reno, Nevada for an aggregate purchase price of $7.2 million. The real property includes an approximately 100,000 square foot building that will be used as our new headquarters. Pursuant to the New Credit Facility, we will invest approximately $2.7 million in additional improvements to the interior of the building to add office space, and provide for the manufacturing and assembly needs of bingo, box and slot equipment. The building improvements are being funded by proceeds from the New Credit Facility and are held in a construction control account with U.S. Bank N.A. 12 Servicing this debt will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate the required cash depends on our ability to successfully manage our business and upon other factors some of which are beyond our control. The agreement governing the debt contains substantial affirmative and restrictive covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. A breach of any of our obligations under the debt agreement can result in a default allowing the Lenders to elect to declare all amounts outstanding together with accrued interest to be immediately due and payable. At November 2, 2008, the fixed charge coverage ratio did not meet the minimum requirement specified in the New Credit Facility. On January 28, 2009, the Company entered into an amendment with both lenders of the New Credit Facility (“Amendment”). The Amendment waives the fixed charge coverage ratio requirement for the fiscal 2008 year end. The Amendment also reduces the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio for the first fiscal quarter of 2009, increases the base rate on the Revolver by 0.25%, and increases the LIBOR spread on the Revolver from 2.0% to 2.5%. At November 2, 2008, we were in compliance with all the covenants as amended. We must continue to meet NASDAQ Global Market continued listing requirements or we risk delisting. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. In order to maintain that listing, we are required to satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing requirements, including, without limitation, maintaining a $1.00 per share minimum closing bid price for our common stock. In response to current market conditions, NASDAQ has temporarily suspended the enforcement rules requiring the minimum $1.00 closing bid price through April 19, 2009. If the closing bid price of our common stock is below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days after April 19, 2009, we could receive notice from NASDAQ stating that the minimum bid price of our common stock is below continued listing standards. To regain compliance, our common stock would need to close at $1.00 or more for any 10 consecutive business days during the 180 calendar days following our receipt of the notice. If we are unable to regain compliance within 180 calendar days, NASDAQ would determine whether we meet the initial listing criteria for the NASDAQ Capital Market other than the bid price requirement. If we met such criteria, we would be afforded an additional 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. Given current economic conditions and the volatility of our stock price, there is no guarantee that we will be in compliance with the NASDAQ Global Market’s minimum bid requirement when the suspension is lifted. If we are unable to meet the minimum bid when the temporary suspension is lifted, or if we fail to satisfy any other continued listing standard under the NASDAQ Global Market rules, NASDAQ may commence delisting proceedings against us. If we were to be delisted, the market liquidity of our common stock would likely be adversely affected and the market price of our common stock would likely decrease. In addition, our stockholders’ ability to trade or obtain quotations on our shares could be severely limited because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask price of our common stock. Our success depends on our ability to respond to rapid market changes and product enhancements. Our products utilize hardware components developed primarily for the personal computer industry, which is characterized by rapid technological change and product enhancements. Should any of our current or potential competitors succeed in developing a better electronic bingo system or box, those competitors could be in a position to outperform us in our ability to exploit developments in microprocessor, video technology, or other multimedia technology. The emergence of an electronic bingo system or box that is superior to ours in any respect could substantially diminish our revenue and limit our ability to grow. Any failure of our company to respond to rapid market changes and product enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We must retain and extend our existing relationships with customers and secure new customers. We derive all of our revenue and cash flow from our portfolio of contracts to lease electronic bingo products to customers as well as from our relationships with established customers in our box markets. Our bingo lease contracts are primarily for terms ranging from one to three years and not all contracts preclude customers from using electronic bingo products of our competitors. Upon the expiration of a contract, a customer may decide to use a competitive bidding process to award a new contract. We may be unsuccessful in winning the new contract or be forced to reduce the pricing structure in the new contract. Our box customers have multiple choices of suppliers of gaming equipment, and we may be unable to attract and retain customers in those markets. Our inability to attract new and retain existing box customers at terms acceptable to us, could, depending on the circumstances, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We depend on our relationships with our distributors. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from customers serviced through distributors in both the bingo and box business. Our bingo distributors place our products with our customers and often maintain the primary relationship with the bingo halls. Generally, we, or our distributors 13 enter into one- to three-year agreements with customers for the use of our systems and terminals. We rely on our distributors exclusively in the states in which the law requires us to place our systems and terminals through qualified distributors. The loss of our relationship with one or more of our distributors may require us to develop our internal sales force or engage new distributors to place our systems and terminals, which could be time consuming and expensive. The loss of one or more of our significant distributors may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We rely on the Texas, Montana, and Louisiana markets for a significant portion of our revenue. The concentration of our revenue in the Texas, Montana, and Louisiana markets heightens our exposure to regulatory changes or market changes that may prevent or impede us from doing business in those states. The Texas market generated approximately 16% of fiscal 2008 bingo revenue and 13% of consolidated revenue; the Montana market generated approximately 44% of box revenue and 9% of consolidated revenue, while the Louisiana market generated approximately 44% of box revenue and 11% of consolidated revenue. Furthermore, the loss of or inability of our company to find suitable distributors in Texas and Louisiana, where state law requires electronic bingo devices and systems to be placed through qualified distributors, could cause a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The electronic bingo, box, and server-based gaming industries are extremely competitive. The electronic bingo industry is characterized by intense competition based on, among other things, the ability to enhance the operations of and to generate incremental sales for bingo operators through product appeal to players, ease of use, ease of serviceability, customer support and training, distribution, name recognition, and price. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced operating margins, conversion of terminals from lease to sale, and loss of market share. The box industry is also characterized by intense competition that is based upon the ability to develop new gaming content that will appeal to a variety of gaming customers. Increased competition may result in a need to increase game development activity, price reductions, providing extended payment terms, or increased commissions to distributors. We believe server-based gaming will be the next significant technological development in the gaming industry. The continuing development of server-based gaming will require additional resources that could be allocated to other areas, and the failure to effectively bring server-based gaming to market could have a negative impact on our financial condition. All of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, many of our competitors do not face the same level of public company costs and administrative costs that we face. Furthermore, existing and new competitors may expand their operations in our existing or potential new markets. In addition, our electronic bingo business competes with other similar forms of entertainment, including casino gaming and lotteries. In Native American casinos, competition for space on the casino and bingo room floor is very intense. All forms of gaming compete for square footage at Native American casinos. We can make no assurances that Native American casinos currently leasing our equipment will not significantly limit the play of bingo or eliminate it entirely. Additionally, as we expand into new Class II and Class III markets we will face intense competition from existing competitors who have many years of established track records in those markets. We can make no assurances that we can successfully penetrate these markets with our newly developed Class II and Class III gaming machines. Investors may not be able to exercise control over our company as a result of our Chairman’s ownership. Our Chairman of the Board, Richard Fedor, beneficially owns approximately 16% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, the Chairman of our company can significantly influence the management and affairs of our company and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, even when such change of control is in the best interests of stockholders. This concentration of ownership might also adversely affect the market price of the common stock and the voting and other rights of the company’s other stockholders. We must be able to attract and retain skilled employees. Our success depends largely on recruiting and retaining talented employees. The market for qualified executives and highly skilled, technical workers is intensely competitive. The loss of key employees or an inability to hire a sufficient number of technical staff could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 14 Acquisitions could divert management’s time and attention, dilute the voting power of existing stockholders, and have a material adverse effect on our business. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire complementary businesses and assets. Acquisitions that we may make in the future could result in the diversion of time and personnel from our existing business. We also may issue shares of common stock or other securities in connection with acquisitions, which could result in the dilution of the voting power of existing stockholders and could dilute earnings per share. Any acquisitions would be accompanied by other risks commonly encountered in such transactions, including the following: · difficulties integrating the products, operations, and personnel of acquired companies; · the additional financial resources required to fund the operations of acquired companies; · the potential disruption of our business; · our ability to maximize our financial and strategic position by the incorporation of acquired technology or businesses with our product offerings; · the difficulty of maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures, and policies; · the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies; · the impairment of employee and customer relationships as a result of changes in management; · significant expenditures to consummate acquisitions; and · difficulties in meeting applicable regulatory requirements, including obtaining necessary licenses. As a part of our acquisition strategy, we may engage in discussions with various businesses regarding their potential acquisition. In connection with these discussions, we may exchange confidential operational and financial information with each potential acquired business and each of us may conduct due diligence inquiries and consider the structure, terms, and conditions of the potential acquisition. In certain cases, the parties may agree not to discuss a potential acquisition with any other party for a specific period of time, may grant us certain rights in the event the acquisition is not completed, and may agree to take other actions designed to enhance the possibility of the acquisition. Potential acquisition discussions may take place over a long period of time, may involve difficult business integration and other issues, and may require solutions for numerous family relationships, management succession, and related matters. As a result of these and other factors, potential acquisitions that from time to time appear likely to occur may not result in binding legal agreements and may not be consummated. Our acquisition agreements may contain purchase price adjustments, rights of setoff, and other remedies in the event that certain unforeseen liabilities or issues arise in connection with an acquisition. These remedies, however, may not be sufficient to compensate us in the event that any unforeseen liabilities or other issues arise. Our failure to manage effectively our growth could impair our business. Our growth plans may require full use of our current financial, managerial, and other resources as well as substantial expansion of those resources. In order to manage effectively any significant future growth, we may have to perform various tasks, including the following: · expand our facilities and equipment and further enhance our operational, financial, and management systems; · design, develop, produce, and receive products from third-party suppliers on a timely basis; · develop new and maintain existing distribution channels in order to maximize revenue and profit margins; · effectively manage regulatory risks in various jurisdictions; · successfully hire, train, retain, and motivate additional employees; and · integrate successfully the operations of any acquired businesses with our operations. We plan to expand within our existing markets and into foreign and domestic bingo and lottery terminal markets in which we have no previous operating experience. We may not be able to maintain profitability or manage successfully the aggressive expansion of our existing and planned business. Our failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Sales of additional shares of common stock, or the potential for such sales, could have a depressive effect on the market price of our common stock. As of January 27, 2009, we had 11,706,269 outstanding shares of common stock. Approximately 9.5 million of such shares are eligible for resale in the public market without restriction or further registration. The remaining approximately 2.2 million shares of common stock outstanding are held by affiliates of our company and may be sold without registration only in compliance with the volume and other limitations of Rule 144. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock by stockholders in the public market, or even the potential for such sales, are likely to adversely affect the market price of the common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital by selling equity securities. Moreover, the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of 612,150 outstanding options will be freely tradable without restriction unless acquired by affiliates of our company. The issuance of such freely tradable shares will result in additional outstanding shares of common stock and will create additional potential for sales of additional shares of common stock in the public market. 15 We have limited protection of our intellectual property. We regard our products as proprietary and rely primarily on a combination of patent law, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, licensing agreements, and employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights. Defense of intellectual property rights can be difficult and costly, and we may not be able to protect our technology from misappropriation by competitors or others. In addition, the protections offered by trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws may not prevent a competitor from designing electronic bingo systems or box gaming content that have the appearance and functionality that closely resemble our systems. As the number of electronic bingo terminals and boxes increase and the functionality of these products further overlaps, we may become subject to infringement claims, with or without merit. Intellectual property-related claims or litigation can be costly and can result in a significant diversion of management’s attention. Any settlement of such claims or adverse determinations in such litigation could also have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our Stockholders’ Rights Plan may adversely affect existing stockholders. Our Stockholders’ Rights Plan may have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Under the Rights Plan, we issued a dividend of one Preferred Share Purchase Right for each share of our common stock held by stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 17, 2003. In general, subject to certain limited exceptions, the stock purchase rights become exercisable when a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock or a tender offer or exchange offer for 15% or more of our common stock is announced or commenced. After any such event, our other stockholders may purchase additional shares of our common stock at 50% of the then-current market price. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. The rights may be redeemed by us at $0.01 per stock purchase right at any time before any person or group acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. The rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by our board of directors. The rights expire on March 17, 2013. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 