Item 1A. Risk Factors.You should carefully consider the following risks as well as the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our financial statements and related notes. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, the selected risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. While we attempt to mitigate known risks to the extent we believe to be practicable and reasonable, we can provide no assurance, and we make no representation, that our mitigation efforts will be successful.Risks Related to Our Business and Structure The current challenging economic environment, along with difficult and volatile conditions in the capital and credit markets, could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, and we are unsure whether these conditions will improve in the near future. The U.S. economy and global credit markets remain volatile. Instability in consumer confidence and continued high unemployment have increased concerns of prolonged economic weakness. While certain healthcare spending is considered non-discretionary and may not be significantly impacted by economic downturns, other types of healthcare spending may be significantly adversely impacted by such conditions. When patients are experiencing personal financial difficulties or have concerns about general economic conditions, they may choose to defer or forego elective surgeries and other non-emergency procedures, which are generally more profitable lines of business for hospitals. We are unable to determine the specific impact of the current economic conditions on our business at this time, but we believe that further deterioration or a prolonged period of economic weakness will have an adverse impact on our operations. Other risk factors discussed herein describe some significant risks that may be magnified by the current economic conditions such as the following: •our concentration of operations in a small number of regions, and the impact of economic downturns in those communities. To the extent the communities in and around San Antonio, Harlingen and Brownsville, Texas; Phoenix, Arizona; Chicago, Illinois; Detroit, Michigan; or certain communities in Massachusetts experience a greater degree of economic weakness than average, the adverse impact on our operations could be magnified;•our revenues may decline if federal or state programs reduce our Medicare or Medicaid payments or managed care companies (including managed Medicare and managed Medicaid payers) reduce our reimbursement. Current economic conditions have accelerated and increased the budget deficits for most states, including those in which we operate. These budgetary pressures have resulted, and may continue to result, in healthcare payment reductions under state Medicaid plans or reduced benefits to participants in those plans. Also, governmental, managed Medicare or managed Medicaid payers may defer payments to us to conserve cash. Managed care companies have reduced and may continue to seek to reduce payment rates or limit payment rate increases to hospitals in response to continuing pressure from employers and from reductions in enrolled participants; •our hospitals face a growth in uncompensated care as the result of the inability of uninsured patients to pay for healthcare services and difficulties in collecting the patient portions of insured accounts. Higher unemployment, Medicaid benefit reductions and employer efforts to reduce employee healthcare costs may increase our exposure to uncollectible accounts for uninsured patients or those patients with higher co-pay and deductible limits; and•under extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance that funds necessary to run our business will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. Most of our cash and borrowing capacity under the 2010 Credit Facilities (as defined below) will be held with a limited number of financial institutions, which could increase our liquidity risk if one or more of those institutions become financially strained or are no longer able to operate. We are unable to predict if the condition of the U.S. economy, the local economies in the communities we serve or global credit conditions will improve in the near future or when such improvements may occur. We are unable to predict the impact of the Health Reform Law, which represents significant change to the healthcare industry. The Health Reform Law will change how healthcare services are covered, delivered, and reimbursed through expanded coverage of uninsured individuals, changes to Medicare and Medicaid program reimbursement, and the establishment of programs where reimbursement is tied to quality and integration. In addition, the Health Reform Law contains provisions 44Table of Contentsintended to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement. On June 28, 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision in a major challenge to the Health Reform Law brought by a majority of states and private individuals and groups representing stakeholders, such as small business advocates. The Court concluded that provisions requiring individuals to possess health insurance or pay a penalty (or tax) was constitutional and therefore valid. However the Supreme Court invalidated a provision empowering the HHS Secretary to withhold all federal Medicaid funds from states that choose not to expand Medicaid as prescribed under the law. Congress is considering a number of changes that could alter the scope or implementation of the Health Reform Law. In 2012, the U.S. House of Representatives approved legislation that would repeal the entire law, but the Senate rejected the legislation. Nonetheless, Congress has enacted several changes to the Health Reform Law, including several changes that have repealed portions of the original measure. States are moving at different rates to implement portions of the Health Reform Law left to their discretion, including Exchanges that will be necessary to enroll millions of uninsured Americans in insurance plans. Some states have made no discernible progress toward establishing Exchanges, which makes uncertain when and how residents of those states will become insured pursuant to the expectations of the Health Reform Law. The expansion of health insurance coverage under the Health Reform Law may result in a material increase in the number of patients using our facilities who have either private or public program coverage. Further, the Health Reform Law provides for a value-based purchasing program, the establishment of ACOs and bundled payment pilot programs, which will create possible sources of additional revenue. However, it is difficult to predict the size of the potential revenue implications for us because of uncertainty surrounding a number of material factors, including the following: •how many states will implement the Medicaid expansion provisions and under what terms;•how many currently uninsured individuals will obtain coverage (either private health insurance or Medicaid) as a result of the Health Reform Law; •what percentage of the newly insured patients will be covered under the Medicaid program and what percentage will be covered by private health insurers; •the extent to which states will enroll new Medicaid participants in managed care programs; •the pace at which insurance coverage expands, including the pace of different types of coverage expansion; •the change, if any, in the volume of inpatient and outpatient hospital services that are sought by and provided to previously uninsured individuals; •the rate paid to hospitals by private payers for newly covered individuals, including those covered through the newly created Exchanges and those who might be covered under the Medicaid program under contracts with the state; •the rate paid by state governments under the Medicaid program for newly covered individuals; •how the value-based purchasing and other quality programs will be implemented; •the percentage of individuals in the Exchanges who select the high deductible plans, since health insurers offering those kinds of products have traditionally sought to pay lower rates to hospitals; •the extent to which the net effect of the Health Reform Law, including the prohibition on excluding individuals based on pre-existing conditions, the requirement to keep medical costs lower than a specified percentage of premium revenue, other health insurance reforms and the annual fee applied to all health insurers, will put pressure on the profitability of health insurers, which in turn might cause them to seek to reduce payments to hospitals with respect to both newly insured individuals and their existing business; and•the possibility that the Health Reform Law or components of it will be delayed, revised or eliminated as a result of other court challenges or actions by Congress. On the other hand, the Health Reform Law provides for significant reductions in the growth of Medicare spending, reductions in Medicare and Medicaid DSH payments and the establishment of programs where reimbursement is tied to quality and integration. Since approximately 60-65% of our net patient revenues during each of our fiscal years ended 2010, 2011 and 2012 were from Medicare and Medicaid (including Medicare and Medicaid managed plans), reductions to these programs may significantly impact us and could offset any positive effects of the Health Reform Law. It is difficult to predict the size of the revenue reductions to Medicare and Medicaid spending because of uncertainty regarding a number of material factors including the following: 45Table of Contents•the amount of overall revenues we will generate from Medicare and Medicaid business when the reductions are implemented; •whether future reductions required by the Health Reform Law will be changed by statute or judicial decision prior to becoming effective; •the size of the Health Reform Law's annual productivity adjustment to the market basket; •the amount of the Medicare DSH reductions that will be made, commencing in FFY 2014; •the allocation to our hospitals of the Medicaid DSH reductions, commencing in FFY 2014; •what the losses in revenues will be, if any, from the Health Reform Law's quality initiatives; •how successful ACOs in which we participate will be at coordinating care and reducing costs or whether they will decrease reimbursement; •the scope and nature of potential changes to Medicare reimbursement methods, such as an emphasis on bundling payments or coordination of care programs; •whether our revenues from UPL programs, or other Medicaid supplemental programs developed through a federally approved waiver program, will be adversely affected, because there may be reductions in available state and local government funding for the programs, or because there may be fewer indigent, non-Medicaid patients for whom we provide services pursuant to UPL programs in which we participate; and •reductions to Medicare payments CMS may impose for “excessive readmissions.”Because of the many variables involved, we are unable to predict the net effect on us of the expected decreases in uninsured individuals using our facilities, the reductions in Medicare spending, reductions in Medicare and Medicaid DSH funding and numerous other provisions in the Health Reform Law that may affect us. If we are unable to enter into favorable contracts with managed care plans, our operating revenues may be reduced. Our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with health maintenance organizations, insurers offering preferred provider arrangements and other managed care plans significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. Revenues derived from health maintenance organizations, insurers offering preferred provider arrangements and other managed care plans, including managed Medicare and managed Medicaid plans, accounted for a significant portion of our net patient revenues for each of the years ended June 30, 2010, 2011 and 2012. Managed care organizations offering prepaid and discounted medical services packages represent a significant portion of our admissions. In addition, private payers are increasingly attempting to control healthcare costs through direct contracting with hospitals to provide services on a discounted basis, increased utilization reviews and greater enrollment in managed care programs such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. The trend towards consolidation among private managed care payers tends to increase their bargaining power over prices and fee structures. As various provisions of the Health Reform Law are implemented, including the establishment of the Exchanges, non-government payers increasingly may demand reduced fees. In most cases, we negotiate our managed care contracts annually as they come up for renewal at various times during the year. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to renew existing managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. Other healthcare companies, including some with greater financial resources, greater geographic coverage or a wider range of services, may compete with us for these opportunities. For example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care companies to contract with us. It is not clear what impact, if any, the increased obligations on managed care payers and other payers imposed by the Health Reform Law will have on our ability to negotiate reimbursement increases. If we are unable to contain costs through increased operational efficiencies or to obtain higher reimbursements and payments from managed care payers, our results of operations and cash flows will be materially adversely affected. Our revenues may decline if federal or state programs reduce our Medicare or Medicaid payments. Approximately 60-65% of our net patient revenues for each of the years ended June 30, 2010, 2011 and 2012 came from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, including Medicare and Medicaid managed plans. In recent years federal and state governments have made significant changes to the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Some of those changes adversely affect the reimbursement we receive for certain services. In addition, due to budget deficits in many states, significant decreases in state funding for Medicaid programs have occurred or are being proposed. Changes in government healthcare programs may reduce the reimbursement we receive and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to healthcare providers for certain services under the Medicare program. For example, CMS completed a two-year transition to full implementation of the MS-DRG system, which represents a refinement to the existing diagnosis-related group 46Table of Contentssystem. Future realignments in the MS-DRG system could impact the margins we receive for certain services. Further, the Health Reform Law provides for material reductions in the growth of Medicare program spending, including reductions in Medicare market basket updates, and Medicare DSH funding. On August 2, 2011, Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011. This law increased the nation's borrowing authority while taking steps to reduce federal spending and the deficit. The deficit reduction component is being implemented in two phases. In the first phase, the law imposes caps that reduce discretionary (non-entitlement) spending by more than $900 billion over 10 years, beginning in FFY 2012. Under a second phase, if spending and deficit amounts reach certain thresholds, an enforcement mechanism called “sequestration” will be triggered under which a total of $1.2 trillion in automatic, across-the board spending reductions must be implemented over ten years beginning in February 2013. The spending reductions are to be split evenly between defense and non-defense discretionary spending, although certain programs (including the Medicaid and CHIP programs) are exempt from these automatic spending reductions, and Medicare expenditures cannot be reduced by more than two percent. If sequestration goes into effect and these reductions are implemented, Medicare payments to hospitals and for other services could be reduced. Congress may take additional action in 2012 or 2013 to further reduce federal spending and the deficit to avoid sequestration being triggered. If so, Medicare, Medicaid and CHIP spending could be reduced further, and provider payments under those programs could be substantially reduced. Congress may consider legislation that would seek to further reduce the federal deficit, which could also further substantially reduce Medicare and Medicaid spending, including payments to providers.Since most states must operate with balanced budgets and since the Medicaid program is often a state's largest program, some states can be expected to enact or consider enacting legislation designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures. The current weakened economic conditions have increased the budgetary pressures on many states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted, and likely will continue to result, in decreased spending for Medicaid programs and the CHIP in many states. Certain states in which we operate are also delaying payments to us, or accelerating payments we owe to them, as a way to deal with their budget shortfalls. Further, many states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage, enroll Medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states' Medicaid systems. On March 15, 2011, the Governor of Arizona announced the state's plan to reform Medicaid by making changes to eligibility, freezing enrollment, and modifying reimbursement rates, among other proposals. Many of the proposed changes required federal approval. In April 2011, the Governor signed Arizona's fiscal year 2012 budget legislation, which included a 5% reduction to provider reimbursement, effective October 1, 2011, and a reduction in Medicaid beneficiaries through enrollment caps, attrition and more stringent eligibility requirements. Following the passage of the legislation, on October 21, 2011, CMS approved certain modifications to Arizona's Section 1115 waiver consistent with the legislative plans. The Arizona Hospital and Healthcare Association ("AHH") challenged the reimbursement cut, but the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona declined to issue a preliminary injunction preventing the rate decrease and AHH voluntarily dismissed its claims on April 2, 2012. For a five year period, the waiver allows Arizona to freeze Medicaid enrollment for the Childless Adult Program and provides flexibility for the state to fund the Childless Adult Program based on availability of resources. However, CMS did not approve Arizona's waiver proposal to freeze enrollment of parents with incomes between 75-100% of the FPL. In April 2012, CMS approved a modification to Arizona's waiver to implement AHCCCS's Safety Net Care Pool ("SNCP"), which provides additional funding to certain safety net hospitals and temporarily expands Medicaid eligibility for low income children. In April 2012, CMS also approved Arizona's State Plan Amendment, which imposes a 25-day limit per year on inpatient hospital services for adults 21 and older, retroactive to October 1, 2011. Additionally, AHCCCS has proposed a gain sharing plan, the details of which have not been finalized, which would be implemented through an annual reconciliation process with the managed Medicaid health plans. On July 30, 2012, CMS approved an update to Arizona's waiver that revised Arizona's Medicaid DSH payment methodology. Similar to the Arizona reimbursement cuts, in July 2011, the Texas Health and Human Services Commission ("HHSC")issued a final rule implementing a statewide acute care hospital inpatient Standard Dollar Amount (“SDA”) rate along with an 8% reduction in Medicaid hospital outpatient reimbursement. The MS-DRG relative weights were also rebased concurrent with the SDA rate change. In June 2012, HHSC submitted a proposed regulation to transition from the use of MS-DRGs to the All Patient Refined Diagnosis Related Groups (APR-DRG). After holding a public hearing on July 23, 2012 and receiving written comments on the proposed regulations, HHSC has indicated that it intends to issue a revised final regulation, which will be effective September 1, 2012. The SDA rate includes certain add-on adjustments for geographic wage-index, indirect medical education and trauma services but does not include add-on adjustments for higher acuity services such as neonatal and other 47Table of Contentswomen's services. The June 2012 proposed rule would remove the cost of living index calculation for the statewide base SDA. Our Texas hospitals also participate in private supplemental Medicaid reimbursement programs that are structured to expand the community safety net by providing indigent healthcare services and result in additional revenues for participating hospitals. CMS approved a Medicaid waiver in December 2011 that allows Texas to continue receiving supplemental Medicaid reimbursement while expanding its managed Medicaid program. HHSC issued a final rule, effective July 1, 2012, which implements the provider eligibility requirements and payment methodologies approved by CMS under the waiver. We cannot predict whether the Texas private supplemental Medicaid reimbursement programs will continue or guarantee that revenues recognized from the programs will not decrease. Additional Medicaid spending reductions may be implemented in the future in the states in which we operate. The Health Reform Law expands Medicaid coverage to all individuals under age 65 with incomes up to 133% of the FPL by 2014, with such limit effectively increasing to 138% with the "5% income disregard" provision. In addition, states are to maintain, at a minimum, Medicaid eligibility standards established prior to the enactment of the law for adults until January 1, 2014 and for children until October 1, 2019. However, states with budget deficits may seek exemptions from this requirement to address eligibility standards that apply to adults making more than 133% of the FPL. As a result, of the Supreme Court's June 28, 2012 decision on the Health Reform Law, HHS is no longer permitted to withdraw Medicaid funds from states that fail to comply with the Health Reform Law Medicaid expansion provisions. The CBO estimates that one-sixth of the population that would be newly eligible to receive Medicaid coverage under the provisions of the Health Reform Law will live in states that opt out of Medicaid expansion, and an additional one-half of the newly eligible population will live in states that partially expand Medicaid eligibility. Failure of a state to adopt the Medicaid expansion could adversely impact our revenues. In addition, the Health Reform Law will result in increased state legislative and regulatory changes in order for states to comply with new federal mandates, such as the requirement to establish Exchanges, and to participate in grants and other incentive opportunities. Future legislation or other changes in the administration or interpretation of government health programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In recent years, both the Medicare program and several large managed care companies have changed our reimbursement to link some of their payments, especially their annual increases in payments, to performance on certain quality of care measures. We expect this trend to “pay-for-performance” to increase in the future. If we are unable to meet these performance measures, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows will be materially adversely affected. In some cases, commercial third-party payers rely on all or portions of the MS-DRG system to determine payment rates, which may result in decreased reimbursement from some commercial third-party payers. Other changes to government healthcare programs may negatively impact payments from commercial third-party payers. Current or future healthcare reform efforts, changes in laws or regulations regarding government healthcare programs, other changes in the administration of government healthcare programs and changes to commercial third-party payers in response to healthcare reform and other changes to government healthcare programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that could reduce our revenues and profitability. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to licensing, the conduct of operations, the ownership of facilities, the addition of facilities and services, financial arrangements with physicians and other referral sources, confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records, billing for services and prices for services. If a determination was made that we were in material violation of such laws or regulations, our operations and financial results could be materially adversely affected. In many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretations of these laws and regulations. This is particularly true in the case of the Medicare and Medicaid statute codified under Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act and known as the “Anti-Kickback Statute.” This statute prohibits providers and other persons or entities from soliciting, receiving, offering or paying, directly or indirectly, any remuneration with the intent to generate referrals of orders for services or items reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Courts have interpreted this statute broadly and held that there is a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute if just one purpose of the remuneration is to generate referrals, even if there are other lawful purposes. Furthermore, the Health Reform Law provides that knowledge of the law or the intent to violate the law is not required. As authorized by the U.S. Congress, HHS has issued 48Table of Contentsregulations that describe certain conduct and business relationships immune from prosecution under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The fact that a given business arrangement does not fall within one of these “safe harbor” provisions does not render the arrangement illegal, but business arrangements of healthcare service providers that fail to satisfy the applicable safe harbor criteria risk increased scrutiny by enforcement authorities. The safe harbor requirements are generally detailed, extensive, narrowly drafted and strictly construed. Many of the financial arrangements that our facilities maintain with physicians do not meet all of the requirements for safe harbor protection. The regulatory authorities that enforce the Anti-Kickback Statute may in the future determine that one or more of these arrangements violate the Anti-Kickback Statute or other federal or state laws. A determination that a facility has violated the Anti-Kickback Statute or other federal laws could subject us to liability under the Social Security Act, including criminal and civil penalties, as well as exclusion of the facility from participation in government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. In addition, the portion of the Social Security Act commonly known as the “Stark Law” prohibits physicians from referring Medicare and (to an extent) Medicaid patients to providers of certain “designated health services” if the physician or a member of his or her immediate family has an ownership or investment interest in, or compensation arrangement with, that provider. In addition, the provider in such arrangements is prohibited from billing for all of the designated health services referred by the physician, and, if paid for such services, is required to promptly repay such amounts. Most of the services furnished by our facilities are “designated health services” for Stark Law purposes, including inpatient and outpatient hospital services. There are multiple exceptions to the Stark Law, among others, for physicians having a compensation relationship with the facility as a result of employment agreements, leases, physician recruitment and certain other arrangements. However, each of these exceptions applies only if detailed conditions are met. An arrangement subject to the Stark Law must qualify for an exception in order for the services to be lawfully referred by the physician and billed by the provider. Although there is an exception for a physician's ownership interest in an entire hospital, the Health Reform Law prohibits newly created physician owned hospitals from billing for Medicare patients referred by their physician owners. As a result, the new law effectively prevents the formation of physician-owned hospitals after December 31, 2010. While the new law grandfathers existing physician-owned hospitals, it does not allow these hospitals to increase the percentage of physician ownership and significantly restricts their ability to expand services. A March 31, 2011 decision by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District Court of Texas upheld the constitutionality of this new law, but a notice of appeal was filed on May 27, 2011, for review of the decision by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. On August 16, 2012, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals vacated and dismissed the case on the basis that the district court lacked subject matter jurisdiction. In addition, the House of Representatives approved a bill in December 2011 that would have relaxed physician hospital ownership restrictions imposed under the Health Reform Law to allow physician-owned hospitals that were under construction but did not have Medicare provider numbers as of December 31, 2010, to open and operate and qualify for grandfather protection; the bill also would have made it significantly easier for hospitals that were grandfathered under the Health Reform Law to expand capacity (presently, grandfathered hospitals are allowed to expand bed and/or capacity only if they meet very limited criteria). The Senate counterpart to that bill did not include a comparable provision, and the final legislation signed by the President in March 2012 also did not contain a similar provision. It is possible that Congress could revisit and advance additional changes to the hospital-physician ownership provisions in future legislation. Over the last decade, we have faced significant competition from hospitals that have physician ownership and it is uncertain how these changes may affect such competition.CMS has issued three phases of final regulations implementing the Stark Law. Phases I and II became effective in January 2002 and July 2004, respectively, and Phase III became effective in December 2007. While these regulations help clarify the requirements of the exceptions to the Stark Law, it is unclear how the government will interpret many of these exceptions for enforcement purposes. On July 31, 2008, CMS issued a final rule which, effectively prohibits, as of a delayed effective date of October 1, 2009, both “under arrangements” ventures between a hospital and any referring physician or entity owned, in whole or in part, by a referring physician. The rule also effectively prohibits unit-of-service-based “per click” compensation and percentage-based compensation in office space and equipment leases between a hospital and any referring physician or entity owned, in whole or in part, by a referring physician. Because the Stark Law and its implementing regulations continue to evolve, we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of this law and its regulations. We attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the Stark Law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot assure you that every relationship complies fully with the Stark Law. In addition, in the July 2008 final Stark rule CMS indicated that it will continue to enact further regulations tightening aspects of the Stark Law that it perceives allow for Medicare program abuse, especially those regulations that still permit physicians to profit from their referrals of ancillary services. We cannot 49Table of Contentsassure you that the arrangements entered into by our hospitals with physicians will be found to be in compliance with the Stark Law, as it ultimately may be implemented or interpreted. Additionally, if we violate the Anti-Kickback Statute or Stark Law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the FCA, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam or “whistleblower,” suit. For a discussion of remedies and penalties under the FCA, see “Providers in the healthcare industry have been the subject of federal and state investigations, whistleblower lawsuits and class action litigation, and we may become subject to investigations, whistleblower lawsuits or class action litigation in the future” below. Effective December 31, 2010, in connection with the impending acquisition of DMC, we and DMC entered into a Settlement Agreement with the DOJ and the OIG releasing us from liability under the FCA, the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, and the civil monetary penalties provisions of the Stark Law for certain disclosed conduct (the “Covered Conduct”) by DMC prior to our acquisition that may have violated the Anti-Kickback Statute or the Stark Law or failed to comply with governmental reimbursement rules. (A copy of the Settlement Agreement may be found as Exhibit 2.6 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, dated January 5, 2011, filed with the SEC.) DMC paid $30 million to the government in connection with such settlement based upon the government's analysis of DMC's net worth and ability to pay, but not upon our net worth and ability to pay. The Settlement Agreement is subject to the government's right of rescission in the event of DMC's nondisclosure of assets or any misrepresentation in DMC's financial statements disclosed to the government by DMC. While we are not aware of any such misrepresentation or nondisclosure at this time, such misrepresentation or nondisclosure by DMC would provide the government the right to rescind the Settlement Agreement. Additionally, while the scope of release for the Covered Conduct under the Stark Law is materially similar to or broader than that found in most similar publicly-available settlement agreements, the precise scope of such a release under the Stark Law and the FCA, as amended by the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 and the Health Reform Law, has not been interpreted by any court, and it is possible that a regulator or a court could interpret these laws such that the release would not extend to all possible liability for the Covered Conduct. If the Settlement Agreement were to be rescinded or so interpreted, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. In addition, the DOJ continues to investigate the Covered Conduct covered by the Settlement Agreement with respect to potential claims against individuals. It is possible that this investigation might result in adverse publicity or adversely impact our business reputation or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business. If we fail to comply with the Anti-Kickback Statute, the Stark Law, the FCA or other applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain an effective corporate compliance program, we could be subjected to liabilities, including civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs and, for violations of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. All of the states in which we operate have adopted or have considered adopting similar anti-kickback and physician self-referral legislation, some of which extends beyond the scope of the federal law to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients and physician self-referrals, regardless of the source of payment for the care. Little precedent exists for the interpretation or enforcement of these laws. Both federal and state government agencies have announced heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts. Government officials responsible for enforcing healthcare laws could assert that one or more of our facilities, or any of the transactions in which we are involved, are in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute or the Stark Law and related state laws. It is also possible that the courts could ultimately interpret these laws in a manner that is different from our interpretations. Moreover, other healthcare companies, alleged to have violated these laws, have paid significant sums to settle such allegations and entered into “corporate integrity agreements” because of concern that the government might exercise its authority to exclude those providers from governmental payment programs (e.g., Medicare, Medicaid and TRICARE). Both Arizona Heart Hospital and Arizona Heart Institute had such “corporate integrity agreements” prior to our purchase of certain of their assets and liabilities that the OIG has not sought to impose on us. A determination that one or more of our facilities has violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. Federal law permits the OIG to impose civil monetary penalties, assessments and to exclude from participation in federal healthcare programs individuals and entities who have submitted false, fraudulent or improper claims for payment. Improper claims include those submitted by individuals or entities that have been excluded from participation or an order to prescribe a 50Table of Contentsmedical or other item or service during a period a person was excluded from participation, where the person knows or should know that the claim would be made to a federal healthcare program. These penalties may also be imposed on providers or entities that employ or enter into contracts with excluded individuals to provide services to beneficiaries of federal healthcare programs. Furthermore, if services are provided by an excluded individual or entity, the penalties may apply even if the payment is made directly to a non-excluded entity. Employers of, or entities that contract with, excluded individuals or entities for the provision of services may be liable for up to $10,000 for each item or service furnished by the excluded individual or entity, an assessment of up to three times the amount claimed and program exclusions. In order for the penalties to apply, the employer or contractor must have known or should have known that the person or entity was excluded from participation. On October 12, 2009, we voluntarily reported to the OIG that two of our employees had been excluded from participation in Medicare at certain times during their employment. The OIG may seek to apply its exclusion authority to an officer or a managing employee of an excluded or convicted entity. The OIG has used the responsible corporate officer doctrine to apply this authority expansively. In fact, a recent federal district court case from the District of Columbia affirmed the OIG's exclusion authority on the basis of the responsible corporate officer doctrine, Friedman et. al. v. Sebelius (1:09-cv-02028-ESH). In addition, a bill passed by the 2010 U.S. House of Representatives would expand this exclusion authority to include individuals and entities affiliated with sanctioned entities. Consideration of this bill in the Senate was blocked by an anonymous Senate hold and the bill died at the end of the 111th Congress. Although a similar bill was re-introduced in the 112th Congress on February 11, 2011 in the U.S. House of Representatives, its chances of passage remain unclear given that the bill has yet to advance in the House of Representatives and because the 2010 bill was blocked in the Senate. Claims for services furnished by excluded parties may constitute false claims under the federal FCA. As such, the DOJ may also impose penalties on providers that employ excluded parties. Penalties include three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties of $5,500 to $11,000 for each claim. Illinois, Michigan and Massachusetts require Certificates of Need prior to the purchase of major medical equipment or the construction, expansion, closure, sale or change of control of healthcare facilities. We believe our facilities have obtained appropriate Certificates of Need wherever applicable. However, if a determination were made that we were in material violation of such laws, our operations and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The governmental determinations, embodied in Certificates of Need, can also affect our facilities' ability to add bed capacity or important services as well as our ability to acquire healthcare facilities. We cannot predict whether we will be able to obtain required Certificates of Need in the future. A failure to obtain any required Certificates of Need may impair our ability to operate the affected facility profitably. Executive Order 13563EO 13563 requires federal agencies to develop plans to periodically review existing significant regulations to identify outmoded, ineffective, insufficient or excessively burdensome regulations and to modify, streamline, expand, or repeal the regulations as appropriate. This EO may result in revisions to healthcare regulations, the nature and impact of which cannot be predicted. In May 2012, HHS released an updated list of existing and proposed regulations for review. The CMS regulations designated for review and revision and that are relevant to our operations include rules related to:•conditions of participation for hospitals and other healthcare facilities;•MA and prescription drug plan marketing rules and comment process for annual policy changes;•Medicaid home and community-based services waivers; •clarifying CLIA regulations and promoting patient access to laboratory tests; and•improving quality and performance measures.The HHS plan also includes two HIPAA-related provisions for review that may be relevant to our operations. In May 2012, CMS finalized two rules that were promulgated pursuant to EO 13563 and that are expected to save approximately $1 billion per year. These rules eliminate or revise provisions identified as unnecessary, obsolete or burdensome including, but not limited to, changes to:•encourage use of pre-printed and electronic standing orders, order sets and protocols;•remove requirements for a single Director of Outpatient Services; and•allow one governing body to oversee multiple hospitals in a health system.Although the regulatory review process and regulations revised thereunder are intended to result in less regulatory burden, the results of these reviews and revised regulations are uncertain and may result in regulatory changes that could adversely 51Table of Contentsaffect our operations.The laws, rules and regulations described above are complex and subject to interpretation. If we are in violation of any of these laws, rules or regulations, or if further changes in the regulatory framework occur, our results of operations could be significantly harmed. Some of our hospitals may be required to submit to CMS information on their relationships with physicians and this submission could subject such hospitals and us to liability. CMS announced in 2007 that it intended to collect information on ownership, investment and compensation arrangements with physicians from several hundred pre-selected hospitals by requiring these hospitals to submit to CMS Disclosure of Financial Relationship Reports (“DFRR”). CMS intended to use this data to determine whether these hospitals were in compliance with the Stark Law and implementing regulations during the reporting period. In June 2010, CMS decided to delay implementation of the DFRR and instead focus on implementation of the Health Reform Law reporting provisions as to physician-owned hospitals. If CMS decides to re-implement its DFRR initiative, hospitals that receive a DFRR request will have 60 days to compile a significant amount of information relating to its financial relationships with physicians. The hospital may be subject to civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 per day if it is unable to assemble and report this information within the required timeframe or if CMS or any other government agency determines that the submission is inaccurate or incomplete. The hospital may be the subject of investigations or enforcement actions if a government agency determines that any of the information indicates a potential violation of law. Depending on the final format of the DFRR, responding hospitals may be subject to substantial penalties as a result of enforcement actions brought by government agencies and whistleblowers acting pursuant to the FCA and similar state laws, based on allegations such as failure to respond within required deadlines, inaccurate response or incomplete information or a response that indicates a potential violation of the Stark Law or other requirements. Any governmental investigation or enforcement action which results from the DFRR process could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Providers in the healthcare industry have been the subject of federal and state investigations, whistleblower lawsuits and class action litigation, and we may become subject to investigations, whistleblower lawsuits or class action litigation in the future. Both federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of hospital companies, as well as their executives and managers. These investigations relate to a wide variety of topics, including: •cost reporting and billing practices; •laboratory and home healthcare services; •physician ownership of, and joint ventures with, hospitals; •physician recruitment activities; and •other financial arrangements with referral sources. The Health Reform Law includes additional federal funding of $350 million over the next 10 years to fight healthcare fraud, waste and abuse, including $95 million for FFY 2011, $55 million in FFY 2012 and additional increased funding through 2016. In addition, the federal FCA permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. Defendants determined to be liable under the FCA may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. Typically, each fraudulent bill submitted by a provider is considered a separate false claim, and thus the penalties under the FCA may be substantial. Liability arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act, which became law on May 20, 2009, changes the scienter requirements for liability under the FCA. An entity may now violate the FCA if it “knowingly and improperly avoids or decreases an obligation” to pay money to the United States. This includes obligations based on an “established duty . . . arising from . . . the retention of any overpayment.” Thus, if a provider is aware that it has retained an overpayment that it has an obligation to refund, this may form the basis of a FCA violation even if the provider did not know the claim was “false” when it was submitted. The Health Reform Law expressly requires healthcare providers and others to report and return overpayments. 52Table of ContentsThe term overpayment is defined as “any funds that a person receives or retains under title XVIII or XIX to which the person, after applicable reconciliation, is not entitled under such title.” The Health Reform Law also defines the period of time in which an overpayment must be reported and returned to the government. The Health Reform Law provides that “[a]n overpayment must be reported and returned” within “60 days after the date on which the overpayment was identified,” or “the date any corresponding cost report is due,” whichever is later. In February 2012, CMS proposed regulations that would find that a provider has “identified” an overpayment if the provider has “actual knowledge of the existence of the overpayment” or “acts in reckless disregard or deliberate ignorance of the overpayment.” CMS also proposed suspending the 60-day period for returning an overpayment for overpayments that are the subject of a Medicare Self-Referral Disclosure Protocol already received by CMS or OIG Self-Disclosure Protocol already received by the OIG. Under the proposed rules, a provider would have an obligation to report and return an overpayment if that overpayment is discovered within 10 years of the date the overpayment was received. The Health Reform Law explicitly states that if the overpayment is retained beyond the 60-day period, it becomes an “obligation” sufficient for reverse false claim liability under the FCA, and is therefore subject to treble damages and penalties if there is a “knowing and improper” failure to return the overpayment. In some cases, courts have held that violations of the Stark Law and Anti-Kickback Statute can properly form the basis of a FCA case, finding that in cases where providers allegedly violated other statutes and have submitted claims to a governmental payer during the time period they allegedly violated these other statutes, the providers thereby submitted false claims under the FCA. Some states have adopted similar whistleblower and false claims provisions. The Health Reform Law now explicitly links violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute to the FCA. In addition, in February 2012, CMS suggested that there may be situations where a provider is unaware of a kickback arrangement between third parties that causes the provider to submit claims that are the subject of the kickback. For example, a hospital submitting a claim for a medical device may not be aware that a medical device manufacturer paid kickbacks to a referring physician. CMS has proposed that a provider who is not a party to a kickback arrangement may still have a duty to report a kickback scheme if it has sufficient knowledge of the arrangement to identify an overpayment. Under this proposed rule, such a failure to report could create potential false claims liability. The Health Reform Law changes the intent requirement for healthcare fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1347, such that “a person need not have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation.” In addition, the Health Reform Law significantly changes the FCA by removing the jurisdictional bar for allegations based on publicly disclosed information and by loosening the requirements for a qui tam relator to qualify as an “original source,” by permitting the DOJ to oppose a defendant's motion to dismiss on “public disclosure bar” grounds and by narrowing the definition of what prior disclosures constitute “public disclosure” for the purpose of the bar. These changes will effectively increase FCA exposure by enabling a greater number of whistleblowers to bring a claim. Should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws, regulations or programs, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, financial position and results of operations could be negatively impacted. As required by statute, CMS has implemented the Recovery Audit Program on a nationwide basis. Under the program, CMS contracts with recovery auditors to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service Medicare program. The Health Reform Law expands the Recovery Audit Program's scope to include managed Medicare plans and to include Medicaid claims by requiring all states to have established a RAC program by December 31, 2010. CMS expected states to implement their Medicaid RAC programs by January 1, 2012. In addition, CMS employs MICs to perform post-payment audits of Medicaid claims and identify overpayments. The Health Reform Law increased federal funding for the MIC program beginning in FFY 2011 and the increased funding continues through FFY 2016. In addition to Medicare recovery auditors and MICs, several other contractors, including the state Medicaid agencies, have increased their review activities. Further, on November 15, 2011, CMS announced the RAPR demonstration will allow RACs to review claims before they are paid to ensure that the provider complied with all Medicare payment rules. The RACs will conduct prepayment reviews on certain types of claims that historically result in high rates of improper payments, beginning with those involving short stay inpatient hospital services. These reviews will focus on seven states (Florida, California, Michigan, Texas, New York, Louisiana and Illinois) with high populations of fraud and error-prone providers and four states (Pennsylvania, Ohio, North Carolina, and Missouri) with high claims volumes of short inpatient hospital stays for a total of 11 states. The goal of the RAPR demonstration is to reduce improper payments before they are paid, rather than the traditional “pay and chase” methods of looking for improper payments after they have been made. These prepayment reviews will not replace the MAC prepayment reviews as RACs and MACs are supposed to coordinate to avoid duplicate efforts. The RAPR demonstration was to start in January 2012, but CMS decided in January 2012 to delay the start of the program. On August 3, 2012, CMS announced that the RAPR demonstration will start on August 27, 2012 and run until August 26, 2015.53Table of ContentsThe OIG and the DOJ have, from time to time, including for fiscal year 2012, established national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. As a result of these initiatives, some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. For example, we have significant Medicare and Medicaid billings, we provide some durable medical equipment and home healthcare services, and we have joint venture arrangements involving physician investors. We also have a variety of other financial arrangements with physicians and other potential referral sources, including recruitment arrangements and leases. In addition, our executives and managers, many of whom have worked at other healthcare companies that are or may become the subject of federal and state investigations and private litigation, could be included in governmental investigations or named as defendants in private litigation. We are aware that several of our hospitals or their related healthcare operations were and may still be under investigation in connection with activities conducted prior to our acquisition of them. With the exception of the acquisition of the assets of DMC, under the terms of our various acquisition agreements, the prior owners of our hospitals are responsible for any liabilities arising from pre-closing violations. The prior owners' resolution of these matters or failure to resolve these matters, in the event that any resolution was deemed necessary, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any investigations of us, our executives, managers, facilities or operations could result in significant liabilities or penalties to us, as well as adverse publicity. We maintain a compliance program to address health regulatory and other compliance requirements. This program includes initial and periodic ethics and compliance training, a toll-free hotline for employees to report, without fear of retaliation, any suspected legal or ethical violations, annual “fraud and abuse” audits to look at our financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and annual “coding audits” to make sure our hospitals bill the proper service codes in obtaining payment from the Medicare and Medicaid programs.As an element of our corporate compliance program and our internal compliance audits, from time to time we make voluntary disclosures and repayments to the Medicare and Medicaid programs and/or to the federal and/or state regulators for these programs in the ordinary course of business. All of these voluntary actions on our part could lead to an investigation by the regulators to determine whether any of our facilities have violated the Stark Law, the Anti-Kickback Statute, the FCA or similar state law. Either an investigation or initiation of administrative or judicial actions could result in a public announcement of possible violations of the Stark Law, the Anti-Kickback Statute or the FCA or similar state law. Such determination or announcements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. Additionally, several hospital companies have in recent years been named defendants in class action litigation alleging, among other things, that their charge structures are fraudulent and, under state law, unfair or deceptive practices, insofar as those hospitals charge insurers lower rates than those charged to uninsured patients. We cannot assure you that we will not be named as a defendant in litigation of this type. Furthermore, the outcome of these suits may affect the industry standard for charity care policies and any response we take may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In June 2006, we and two other hospital systems operating in San Antonio, Texas had a putative class action lawsuit brought against all of us alleging that we and the other defendants had conspired with one another and with other unidentified San Antonio area hospitals to depress the compensation levels of registered nurses employed at the competing hospitals within the San Antonio area by engaging in certain activities that violated the federal antitrust laws. On the same day that this litigation was brought against us and two other hospital systems in San Antonio, substantially similar class action litigation was brought against multiple hospitals or hospital systems in three other cities (Chicago, Illinois; Albany, New York; and Memphis, Tennessee), with a fifth suit instituted against hospitals or hospital systems in Detroit, Michigan later in 2006, one of which hospital systems was DMC. A negative outcome in the San Antonio and/or the Detroit actions could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Competition from other hospitals or healthcare providers (especially specialty hospitals) may reduce our patient volumes and profitability. The healthcare business is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients has intensified in recent years. Generally, other hospitals in the local communities served by most of our hospitals provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. In addition, CMS publicizes on its Medicare website performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys hospitals submit in connection with their Medicare reimbursement. Federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. Additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. Further, the Health Reform Law requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of the hospital's standard charges for items and services. If any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than 54Table of Contentsour competitors) on these quality measures or on patient satisfaction surveys or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volumes could decline. In addition, we believe the number of freestanding specialty hospitals and surgery and diagnostic centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly in recent years. As a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. Some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or non-profit corporations supported by endowments and charitable contributions and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. Increasingly, we are facing competition from physician-owned specialty hospitals and freestanding surgery centers that compete for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. If ambulatory surgery centers are better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our ambulatory surgery centers. Further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. PHP also faces competition within the Arizona markets that it serves. As in the case of our hospitals, some of our health plan competitors in these markets are owned by governmental agencies or non-profit corporations that have greater financial resources than we do. The revenues we derive from PHP could significantly decrease if new plans operating in the AHCCCS, which is Arizona's state Medicaid program, enter these markets or other existing AHCCCS plans increase their number of members. Moreover, a failure to attract future members may negatively impact our ability to maintain our profitability in these markets. We may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. We operate in a highly regulated and litigious industry. As a result, various lawsuits, claims and legal and regulatory proceedings have been instituted or asserted against us, including those outside of the ordinary course of business such as class actions and those in the ordinary course of business such as malpractice lawsuits. Some of these actions may involve large claims as well as significant defense costs. We maintain professional and general liability insurance with unrelated commercial insurance carriers to provide for losses in excess of our self-insured retention (such retention is maintained by our captive insurance subsidiaries and/or other of our subsidiaries) of $10.0 million through June 30, 2010 which increased to $15.0 million for our Illinois hospitals subsequent to June 30, 2010. As a result, a few successful claims against us that are within our self-insured retention amounts could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or liquidity. We also maintain umbrella coverage for an additional $65.0 million above our self-insured retention with independent third party carriers. There can be no assurance that one or more claims might not exceed the scope of this third-party coverage. The relatively high cost of professional liability insurance and, in some cases, the lack of availability of such insurance coverage for physicians with privileges at our hospitals increases our risk of vicarious liability in cases where both our hospital and the uninsured or underinsured physician are named as co-defendants. As a result, we are subject to greater self-insured risk and may be required to fund a higher amount of claims out of our operating cash flows in future periods as our claims mature. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to obtain insurance coverage in the future or that such insurance coverage, if it is available, will be available on acceptable terms. While we cannot predict the likelihood of future claims or inquiries, we expect that new matters may be initiated against us from time to time. Moreover, the results of current claims, lawsuits and investigations cannot be predicted, and it is possible that the ultimate resolution of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, may have a material adverse effect on our business (both in the near and long term), financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our hospitals face a growth in uncompensated care as the result of the inability of uninsured patients to pay for healthcare services and difficulties in collecting patient portions of insured accounts. Like others in the hospital industry, we have experienced an increase in uncompensated care. Our combined provision for doubtful accounts, uninsured discounts and charity care deductions as a percentage of net patient revenues (prior to these adjustments) was 16.4% and 19.0% for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Our self-pay discharges as a percentage of total discharges during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 increased by 110 basis points compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011. Our hospitals remain at risk for increases in uncompensated care as a result of price increases, the continuing trend of increases in coinsurance and deductible portions of managed care accounts and increases in uninsured patients as a result of potential state Medicaid funding reductions or general economic weakness. We continue to seek ways to improve point of service collection efforts and to implement appropriate payment plans with our patients. However, if we continue to experience growth in self-pay revenues prior to the Health Reform Law being fully implemented, our results of 55Table of Contentsoperations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Further, our ability to improve collections for self-pay patients may be limited by regulatory and investigatory initiatives, including private lawsuits directed at hospital charges and collection practices for uninsured and underinsured patients. The Health Reform Law seeks to decrease over time the number of uninsured individuals. Among other things, effective January 1, 2014, the Health Reform Law will expand Medicaid in those states choosing to participate and incentivize employers to offer, and require individuals to carry, health insurance or be subject to penalties. However, it is difficult to predict the full impact of the Health Reform Law due to the law's complexity, limited implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, gradual implementation and possible amendment by Congress, as well as our inability to foresee how individuals and businesses will respond to the choices afforded them by the law. In addition, even after implementation of the Health Reform Law, we may continue to experience bad debts and have to provide uninsured discounts and charity care for undocumented aliens who are not permitted to enroll in a health insurance exchange or government healthcare programs. Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. Physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions. Thus, the success of our hospitals depends in part on the following factors: •the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals; •the admitting practices of those physicians; and •the maintenance of good relations with those physicians. Most physicians at our hospitals also have admitting privileges at other hospitals. Our efforts to attract and retain physicians are affected by our managed care contracting relationships, national shortages in some specialties, such as anesthesiology and radiology, the adequacy of our support personnel, the condition of our facilities and medical equipment, the availability of suitable medical office space and federal and state laws and regulations prohibiting financial relationships that may have the effect of inducing patient referrals. If facilities are not staffed with adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment that meets the needs of patients, physicians may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, which could adversely affect our profitability. In an effort to meet community needs in the markets in which we operate, we have implemented a strategy to employ physicians both in primary care and in certain specialties. As of June 30, 2012, we employed more than 700 practicing physicians, excluding residents. We have employed a significant number of additional physicians since June 30, 2010 primarily through acquisitions, including 19 physicians from the Arizona Heart Institute acquisition, approximately 160 physicians from the DMC acquisition and approximately 33 physicians from the Valley Baptist acquisition. A physician employment strategy includes increased salary and benefits costs, physician integration risks and difficulties associated with physician practice management. While we believe this strategy is consistent with industry trends, we cannot be assured of the long-term success of such a strategy. In addition, if we raise wages in response to our competitors' wage increases and are unable to pass such increases on to our patients, our margins could decline, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to achieve our acquisition and growth strategies and we may have difficulty acquiring non-profit hospitals due to regulatory scrutiny. An important element of our business strategy is expansion by acquiring hospitals and ambulatory care facilities in our existing markets and in new urban and suburban markets and by entering into partnerships or affiliations with other healthcare service providers. The competition to acquire these facilities is significant, including competition from healthcare companies with greater financial resources than ours. As previously discussed, in fiscal 2011, we acquired two hospitals in Chicago, Illinois, one hospital in Phoenix, Arizona and eight hospitals in metropolitan Detroit, Michigan and in fiscal 2012, we acquired two hospitals in Harlingen and Brownsville, Texas. There is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate acquired hospitals and ambulatory care facilities, which limits our ability to complete future acquisitions. We may not be able to acquire additional hospitals on satisfactory terms and future acquisitions may be on less than favorable terms. We may have difficulty obtaining financing, if necessary, for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms. The DMC acquisition includes, and other future acquisitions may include, significant capital or other funding commitments. Furthermore, we invest capital in our existing facilities to develop new services or expand or renovate our facilities in an effort to generate new, or sustain existing, revenues from our operations. We may not be able to finance these capital commitments or development programs through operating cash flows or additional debt or equity proceeds. We sometimes agree not to sell an acquired hospital for some period of time (currently no longer than 10 years) after purchasing it and/or grant the seller a right of first refusal to purchase the hospital if we agree to sell it to a third party. 56Table of ContentsAdditionally, many states, including some where we have hospitals and others where we may in the future attempt to acquire hospitals, have adopted legislation regarding the sale or other disposition of hospitals operated by non-profit entities. In other states that do not have specific legislation, the attorneys general have demonstrated an interest in these transactions under their general obligations to protect charitable assets from waste. These legislative and administrative efforts focus primarily on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the sale proceeds by the non-profit seller. These review and approval processes can add time to the consummation of an acquisition of a non-profit hospital, and future actions on the state level could seriously delay or even prevent future acquisitions of non-profit hospitals. Furthermore, as a condition to approving an acquisition, the attorney general of the state in which the hospital is located may require us to maintain specific services, such as emergency departments, or to continue to provide specific levels of charity care, which may affect our decision to acquire or the terms upon which we acquire these hospitals. Future acquisitions or joint ventures may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions or joint ventures of hospitals or other healthcare facilities and services. These acquisitions or joint ventures may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, additional operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Acquisitions or joint ventures involve numerous risks, including: •difficulty and expense of integrating acquired personnel into our business; •diversion of management's time from existing operations; •potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies; and •assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare regulations. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in obtaining financing for acquisitions or joint ventures at a reasonable cost, or that such financing will not contain restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. We also may be unable to operate acquired facilities profitably or succeed in achieving improvements in their financial performance. The cost of our malpractice insurance and the malpractice insurance of physicians who practice at our facilities remains volatile. Successful malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our physicians or our employees could materially adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. Physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are subject to legal actions alleging malpractice, general liability or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. Hospitals and physicians have typically maintained malpractice or professional liability insurance to protect against the costs of these types of legal actions. We created a captive insurance subsidiary on June 1, 2002 to assume a substantial portion of the professional and general liability risks of our facilities. For claims incurred between June 1, 2002 and June 30, 2010, we self-insured our professional and general liability risks, either through our captive subsidiary or through another of our subsidiaries, for losses up to $10.0 million. For claims subsequent to June 30, 2010, we increased this self-insured retention to $15.0 million for our Illinois hospitals. We have also purchased umbrella excess policies for professional and general liability insurance for all periods through June 30, 2013 with unrelated commercial carriers to provide an additional $65.0 million of coverage in the aggregate above our self-insured retention. While our premium prices have not fluctuated significantly during the past few years, the total cost of professional and general liability insurance remains sensitive to the volume and severity of cases reported. There is no guarantee that excess insurance coverage will continue to be available in the future at a cost allowing us to maintain adequate levels of such insurance. Moreover, due to the increased retention limits insured by us and our captive subsidiary, if actual payments of claims materially exceed our projected estimates of malpractice claims, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Physicians' professional liability insurance costs in certain markets have dramatically increased to the point where some physicians are either choosing to retire early or leave those markets. If physician professional liability insurance costs continue to escalate in markets in which we operate, some physicians may choose not to practice at our facilities, which could reduce our patient volumes and revenues. Our hospitals may also incur a greater percentage of the amounts paid to claimants if physicians are unable to obtain adequate malpractice coverage since we are often sued in the same malpractice suits brought against physicians on our medical staffs who are not employed by us. We have employed a significant number of additional physicians from our recent acquisitions. Also, effective with the DMC acquisition, we now provide malpractice coverage through certain of our insurance captive subsidiaries to approximately 1,050 non-employed attending physicians, which creates additional risks for us. We expect to continue to employ additional physicians in the future. A significant increase in employed physicians could significantly increase our professional and general liability risks and related costs in future periods since for employed physicians there is no insurance coverage from unaffiliated 57Table of Contentsinsurance companies. Our facilities are concentrated in a small number of regions. If any one of the regions in which we operate experiences a regulatory change, economic downturn or other material change, our overall business results may suffer. Among our operations as of June 30, 2012, five hospitals and various related healthcare businesses were located in San Antonio, Texas; six hospitals and related healthcare businesses were located in metropolitan Phoenix, Arizona; four hospitals and related healthcare businesses were located in metropolitan Chicago, Illinois; eight hospitals and various related healthcare businesses were located in metropolitan Detroit, Michigan; three hospitals and related healthcare businesses were located in Massachusetts; and two hospitals and related healthcare businesses were located in Harlingen and Brownsville, Texas.For the years ended June 30, 2010, 2011 and 2012 our total revenues were generated as follows: Year Ended June 30,2010 2011 2012San Antonio26.8% 20.7% 16.5%PHP and AAHP23.1 16.6 11.9Massachusetts18.2 12.5 10.4Metropolitan Phoenix, excluding PHP and AAHP17.5 13.2 9.1Metropolitan Chicago (1)14.1 15.5 12.0Metropolitan Detroit— 21.3 32.9Harlingen and Brownsville, Texas (2)— — 7.1Other0.3 0.2 0.1 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%__________(1)Includes CHS(2)Includes VBICAny material change in the current demographic, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions in any of these regions could adversely affect our overall business results because of the significance of our operations in each of these regions to our overall operating performance. Moreover, due to the concentration of our revenues in only six markets, our business is less diversified and, accordingly, is subject to greater regional risk than that of some of our larger competitors. In addition, a natural disaster or other catastrophic event could affect us more significantly than other companies with less geographic concentration, and the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover our losses. In particular, hurricanes could have a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in south Texas and the patient populations in the areas they serve.If we are unable to control our healthcare costs at PHP, if PHP should lose its governmental contract or if budgetary reductions reduce the scope of Medicaid coverage, our profitability may be adversely affected. For the years ended June 30, 2010, 2011 and 2012, PHP generated approximately 22.1%, 15.9%, 10.7% of our total revenues, respectively. PHP derives substantially all of its revenues through a contract with AHCCCS. AHCCCS pays capitated rates to PHP and PHP subcontracts with physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers to provide services to its members. If we fail to effectively manage our healthcare costs, these costs may exceed the payments we receive. Many factors can cause actual healthcare costs to exceed the capitated rates paid by AHCCCS, including: •our ability to contract with cost-effective healthcare providers; •the increased cost of individual healthcare services; •the type and number of individual healthcare services delivered; and •the occurrence of catastrophes, epidemics or other unforeseen occurrences. Our current contract with AHCCCS began October 1, 2008 and expires September 30, 2012. AHCCCS has the option to renew the contract, in whole or in part, for an additional one-year period commencing on October 1, 2012. This contract is terminable without cause on 90 days written notice from AHCCCS or for cause upon written notice from AHCCCS if we fail to comply with any term or condition of the contract or fail to take corrective action as required to comply with the terms of the 58Table of Contentscontract. AHCCCS may also terminate the contract with PHP in the event of unavailability of state or federal funding. If our AHCCCS contract is terminated or not renewed, our profitability would be adversely affected by the loss of these revenues and cash flows. Also, should the scope of the Medicaid program be reduced as a result of state budgetary reductions or other political factors, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are dependent on our senior management team and local management personnel, and the loss of the services of one or more of our senior management team or key local management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. The success of our business is largely dependent upon the services and management experience of our senior management team, which includes Charles N. Martin, Jr., our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Kent H. Wallace, our President and Chief Operating Officer; Keith B. Pitts, our Vice Chairman; Phillip W. Roe, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; Bradley A. Perkins, M.D., our Executive Vice President and Chief Transformation Officer; Timothy M. Petrikin, our Executive Vice President, Ambulatory Care Services; Joseph D. Moore, our Executive Vice President; James H. Spalding, our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary; Mark R. Montoney, M.D., our Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer; and Alan G. Thomas, our Executive Vice President-Operations Finance. In addition, we depend on our ability to attract and retain local managers at our hospitals and related facilities, on the ability of our senior officers and key employees to manage growth successfully and on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any of our officers. If we were to lose any of our senior management team or members of our local management teams, or if we are unable to attract other necessary personnel in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were to lose the services of one or more members of our senior management team or a significant portion of our hospital management staff at one or more of our hospitals, we would likely experience a significant disruption in our operations and failure of the affected hospitals to adhere to their respective business plans. Controls designed to reduce inpatient services may subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny and reduce our revenues. Controls imposed by Medicare and commercial third-party payers designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as “utilization reviews,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. Utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressures to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. For example, the Health Reform Law potentially expands the use of prepayment review by Medicare contractors by eliminating statutory restrictions on their use. Although we are unable to predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. There has been recent increased scrutiny of a hospital's “Medicare Observation Rate” from outside auditors, government enforcement agencies and industry observers. The term “Medicare Observation Rate” is defined as total unique observation claims divided by the sum of total unique observation claims and total inpatient short-stay acute care hospital claims. A low rate may raise suspicions that a hospital is inappropriately admitting patients that could be cared for in an observation setting. In our affiliated hospitals, we use the independent, evidence-based clinical criteria developed by McKesson Corporation, commonly known as InterQual Criteria, to determine whether a patient qualifies for inpatient admission. The industry may anticipate increased scrutiny and litigation risk, including government investigations and qui tam suits, related to inpatient admission decisions and the Medicare Observation Rate. The industry trend towards value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. There is a trend in the healthcare industry towards value-based purchasing of healthcare services. These value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. Governmental programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. In addition, Medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events (also called “never events”). Many large commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. The Health Reform Law contains a number of provisions intended to promote value-based purchasing under Medicare and Medicaid.We expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. We are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues. 59Table of ContentsOur facilities are subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations relating to the privacy of individually identifiable information.HIPAA required HHS to adopt standards to protect the privacy and security of individually identifiable health-related information. HHS released final regulations containing privacy standards in December 2000 and published revisions to the final regulations in August 2002. The HITECH Act (one part of the ARRA) significantly broadened the scope of the HIPAA privacy and security regulations. On October 30, 2009, HHS issued an Interim Final Rule implementing amendments to the enforcement regulations under HIPAA and on July 14, 2010, HHS issued a Proposed Rule containing modifications to privacy standards, security standards and enforcement actions. In addition, on May 27, 2011, HHS issued a proposed amendment to the existing accounting for disclosures standard of the HIPAA privacy regulations. The proposed amendment would implement a HITECH Act provision that requires covered entities to account for disclosures of EPHI for treatment, payment and healthcare operations purposes if the disclosure is made through an electronic health record. The proposed amendment goes beyond the HITECH Act provision and would require covered entities, including our hospitals and health plans, to provide a report identifying each instance that a natural person or organization accessed EPHI in any of our electronic treatment and billing record systems during the three-year period ending on the date the report is requested. The report must track access even if the access did not involve a disclosure outside of the covered entity. If HHS adopts the proposed amendments, beginning January 1, 2013, we would be required to report access within our electronic record systems acquired after January 1, 2009. Beginning January 1, 2014, the proposed amendment requires us to report access within our electronic record systems acquired on or before January 1, 2009. Modifying our electronic record systems to prepare such access reports would require a significant commitment, action and cost by us. In addition, HHS is currently in the process of finalizing regulations addressing security breach notification requirements. HHS initially released an Interim Final Rule for breach notification requirements on August 24, 2009. HHS then drafted a Final Rule which was submitted to OMB but subsequently withdrawn by HHS on July 29, 2010. Currently, the Interim Final Rule remains in effect but the withdrawal suggests that when HHS issues the Final Rule, the requirements for how covered entities should respond in the event of a potential security breach involving protected health information may be more onerous than those contained in the Interim Final Rule. The Final Rule has been expected for several months, but there has been no indication of when it will be issued. Until the Final Rule is issued, the Interim Final Rule will remain in effect. Violations of HIPAA could result in civil or criminal penalties. In fact, on February 4, 2011, the HHS Office for Civil Rights imposed civil monetary penalties of $4,300,000 on a covered entity for violating HIPAA's privacy rule by denying patients timely access to their medical records when requested. Recently, HHS announced a settlement of another enforcement action, with the covered entity agreeing to a $1,500,000 settlement and the imposition of a resolution agreement and corrective action plan. An investigation or initiation of civil or criminal actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and our business reputation could suffer significantly. In addition, there are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access or theft of personal information. State statutes and regulations vary from state to state and could impose additional penalties. We have developed a comprehensive set of policies and procedures in our efforts to comply with HIPAA and other privacy laws. Our compliance officers are responsible for implementing and monitoring compliance with our privacy and security policies and procedures at our facilities. We believe that the cost of our compliance with HIPAA and other federal and state privacy laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As a result of increased reviews of claims to Medicare and Medicaid for our services, we may incur additional costs and may be required to repay amounts already paid to us. We are subject to regular post-payment inquiries, investigations and audits of the claims we submit to Medicare for payment for our services. These post-payment reviews are increasing as a result of government cost-containment initiatives, including enhanced medical necessity reviews for Medicare patients admitted as inpatients to general acute care hospitals for certain procedures (e.g., cardiovascular procedures) and to long-term care hospitals, and audits of Medicare claims under the Recovery Audit Program. The Recovery Audit Program began as a demonstration project in 2005, but the program was made permanent by the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006. CMS commenced the permanent national Recovery Audit Program in 2010. Medicare recovery auditors utilize a post-payment targeted review process employing data analysis techniques in order to identify those Medicare claims most likely to contain overpayments, such as incorrectly coded services, incorrect payment amounts, non-covered services and duplicate payments. The Recovery Audit Program review is either “automated”, for which a decision can be made without reviewing a medical record, or “complex”, for which the recovery auditor must contact the provider in order to procure and review the medical record to make a decision about the payment. CMS has given recovery auditors the authority to look back at claims up to three years old, provided that the claim was paid on or after October 1, 2007. 60Table of ContentsClaims identified as overpayments will be subject to the Medicare appeals process. Under the Health Reform Law, CMS also has general authority to enter into contracts with recovery auditors to identify, reconcile and recoup overpayments for Medicare Advantage plans and Medicare Part D. In addition to the Medicare Recovery Audit Program, in the September 16, 2011 Federal Register, CMS finalized provisions relating to implementation of a Medicaid RAC program. States were expected to implement their respective RAC programs by January 1, 2012. Medicaid RACs have authority to look back at claims up to three years from the date the claim was paid. States may coordinate with Medicaid RACs regarding recoupment of overpayments and refer suspected fraud and abuse to appropriate law enforcement agencies. Further, on November 15, 2011, CMS announced the RAPR demonstration will allow RACs to review claims before they are paid to ensure that the provider complied with all Medicare payment rules. The RACs will conduct prepayment reviews on certain types of claims that historically result in high rates of improper payments, beginning with those involving short stay inpatient hospital services. These reviews will focus on seven states (Florida, California, Michigan, Texas, New York, Louisiana and Illinois) with high populations of fraud and error-prone providers and four states (Pennsylvania, Ohio, North Carolina, and Missouri) with high claims volumes of short inpatient hospital stays for a total of 11 states. The goal of the RAPR demonstration is to reduce improper payments before they are paid, rather than the traditional “pay and chase” methods of looking for improper payments after they have been made. These prepayment reviews will not replace the MAC prepayment reviews as RACs and MACs are supposed to coordinate to avoid duplicate efforts. The RAPR demonstration was to start in January 2012, but CMS decided in January 2012 to delay the start of the program. On August 3, 2012, CMS announced that the RAPR demonstration will start on August 27, 2012 and run until August 26, 2015.These additional post-payment reviews may require us to incur additional costs to respond to requests for records and to pursue the reversal of payment denials, and ultimately may require us to refund amounts paid to us by Medicare or Medicaid that are determined to have been overpaid. If we fail to continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. Technological advances with respect to computed axial tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography equipment, as well as other equipment used in our facilities, are continually evolving. In an effort to compete with other healthcare providers, we must constantly evaluate our equipment needs and upgrade equipment as a result of technological improvements. Such equipment costs typically range from $1.0 million to $3.0 million, exclusive of construction or build-out costs. If we fail to remain current with the technological advancements of the medical community, our patient volumes and revenue may be negatively impacted. Our hospitals face competition for staffing especially as a result of the shortage of nurses and the increased imposition on us of nurse-staffing ratios, which has in the past and may in the future increase our labor costs and materially reduce our profitability. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and staff personnel responsible for the day-to-day operations of each of our hospitals, including most significantly nurses and other non-physician healthcare professionals. While the national nursing shortage has abated somewhat as a result of the weakened U.S. economy, certain portions of our markets have limited available nursing resources. In the healthcare industry generally, including in our markets, the shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue. This shortage has caused us in the past and may require us in the future to increase wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. We have voluntarily raised on several occasions in the past, and expect to raise in the future, wages for our nurses and other medical support personnel. In addition, union-mandated or state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios significantly affect not only labor costs, but may also cause us to limit patient admissions with a corresponding adverse effect on revenues if we are unable to hire the appropriate number of nurses to meet the required ratios. While we do not currently operate in any states with mandated nurse-staffing ratios, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios at any time. In those instances where our nurses are unionized, it is our experience that new union contracts often impose significant new additional staffing ratios by contract on our hospitals. This was the case with the increased staffing ratios imposed on us in our union contract with our nurses at Saint Vincent Hospital in Worcester, Massachusetts negotiated in 2007. The U.S. Congress has considered a bill called the Employee Free Choice Act of 2009 (“EFCA”), which organized labor, a major supporter of the Obama administration, has called its number one legislative objective. EFCA would amend the National Labor Relations Act to establish a procedure whereby the National Labor Relations Board (“NLRB”) would certify a union as the bargaining representative of employees, without a NLRB-supervised secret ballot election, if a majority of unit 61Table of Contentsemployees sign valid union authorization cards (the “card-check provision”). Additionally, under EFCA, parties that are unable to reach a first contract within 90 days of collective bargaining could refer the dispute to mediation by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (the “Service”). If the Service is unable to bring the parties to agreement within 30 days, the dispute then would be referred to binding arbitration. Also, the bill would provide for increased penalties for labor law violations by employers. In July 2009, due to intense opposition from the business community, alternative draft legislation became public, dropping the card-check provision, but putting in its place new provisions making it easier for employees to organize including provisions to require shorter unionization campaigns, faster elections and limitations on employer-sponsored anti-unionization meetings, which employees are required to attend. We believe it is unlikely this legislation will be considered in the current Congress, with 2012 being an election year and the House of Representatives now controlled by the Republican party. However, this legislation, if passed by this or a subsequent Congress, would make it easier for our nurses or other hospital employees to unionize, which could materially increase our labor costs. On December 21, 2011, the NLRB issued a final rule, effective April 30, 2012, which will reduce the time it takes to conduct elections largely by limiting litigation issues and procedures by employers prior to the conduct of the election and deferring questions of individual voter eligibility until after the election has been held. This change in NLRB procedures is not as far-reaching as that being considered in the EFCA, but it may make it easier for our employees to unionize, which could materially increase our labor costs. If our labor costs continue to increase, we may not be able to raise our payer reimbursement levels to offset these increased costs. Because substantially all of our net patient revenues consist of payments based on fixed or negotiated rates, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is materially constrained. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control our labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our pension plan obligations under one of DMC's pension plans are currently underfunded, and we may have to make significant cash payments to this plan, which would reduce the cash available for our businesses. Effective January 1, 2011, we acquired all of DMC's assets (other than donor-restricted assets and certain other assets) and assumed all of its liabilities (other than its outstanding bonds and similar debt and certain other liabilities). The assumed liabilities include a pension liability under a “frozen” defined benefit pension plan of DMC. As of June 30, 2012, the unfunded pension liability reflected on our consolidated balance sheet was approximately $269.9 million. This pension liability is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets, the level of certain market interest rates and the discount rate used to recognize pension obligations. Unfavorable returns on the plan assets or unfavorable changes in applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of required plan funding, which would reduce the cash available for our businesses. In addition, a decrease in the discount rate used to determine this pension obligation could result in an increase in the valuation of this pension obligation, which could affect the reported funded status of this pension plan and necessary future contributions, as well as the periodic pension cost in respect of this plan in subsequent fiscal years. Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”) has the authority to terminate an underfunded tax-qualified pension plan under limited circumstances. In the event that the tax-qualified pension plan referred to above is terminated by the PBGC, we could be liable to the PBGC for the entire amount of the underfunding. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may negatively impact our results of operations and failure to comply may subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of investors' confidence in our internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) requires us to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and file management's attestation with our Annual Report on Form 10-K each year. Section 404 also requires our independent auditors to opine on our internal control over financial reporting. We have evaluated, tested and implemented internal controls over financial reporting to enable management to report on such internal controls under Section 404. However, we cannot assure you that the conclusions we and our independent auditor reached as of June 30, 2012 will represent conclusions we or our independent auditors reach in future periods. Failure on our part to comply with Section 404 may subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control over financial reporting and hiring additional personnel. Any such actions could negatively affect our results of operations. A failure of our information systems would adversely affect our ability to properly manage our operations. We rely on our information systems and our ability to successfully use these systems in our operations. These systems are essential to the following areas of our business operations, among others: 62Table of Contents•patient accounting, including billing and collection of patient service revenues; •financial, accounting, reporting and payroll; •coding and compliance; •laboratory, radiology and pharmacy systems; •remote physician access to patient data; •negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts; and •monitoring quality of care. If we are unable to use these systems effectively, we may experience delays in collection of patient service revenues and may not be able to properly manage our operations or oversee compliance with laws or regulations. If we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems and transition to the ICD-10 coding system, our operations could be adversely affected. As required by ARRA, HHS has adopted an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and healthcare professionals that implement certified EHR technology and use it consistently with “meaningful use” requirements. If our hospitals and employed or contracted professionals do not meet the Medicare or Medicaid EHR incentive program requirements, we will not receive Medicare or Medicaid incentive payments to offset some of the costs of implementing the EHR systems. Further, beginning in FFY 2015, eligible hospitals and physicians that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology will be subject to reduced payments from Medicare. Failure to implement EHR systems effectively and in a timely manner could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Health plans and providers, including our hospitals, are required to transition to the new ICD-10 coding system, which greatly expands the number and detail of billing codes used for inpatient claims. Under current regulations, use of the ICD-10 system is required beginning October 1, 2013, but CMS has announced its intent to extend this deadline. Transition to the new ICD-10 system requires significant investment in coding technology and software as well as the training of staff involved in the coding and billing process. In addition to these upfront costs of transition to ICD-10, it is possible that our hospitals could experience disruption or delays in payment due to technical or coding errors or other implementation issues involving our systems or the systems and implementation efforts of health plans and their business partners. Further, the transition to the more detailed ICD-10 coding system could result in decreased reimbursement if the use of ICD-10 codes result in conditions being reclassified to MS-DRGs or commercial payer or payment groupings with lower levels of reimbursement than assigned under the previous system.Difficulties with current construction projects or new construction projects such as additional hospitals or major expansion projects may involve significant capital expenditures that could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. We have begun construction on a new acute care hospital in New Braunfels, Texas, which is north of San Antonio, and may decide to construct additional hospitals and expand existing facilities in the future in order to achieve our growth objectives. Additionally, the DMC purchase agreement includes a commitment by us to fund $500.0 million of specified construction projects at the DMC facilities during the five years subsequent to the closing of the acquisition, many of which include substantial physical plant expansions. As of June 30, 2012, we had spent approximately $74.2 million related to this commitment. The $500.0 million commitment for specified construction projects and the $350.0 million for routine capital expenditures include the following remaining annual aggregate spending amounts as of June 30, 2012: $208.9 million committed within one year; $300.0 million committed within two to three years; and $175.0 million committed in the fourth year and beyond. Our ability to complete construction of new hospitals or new expansion projects on budget and on schedule would depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: •our ability to control construction costs; •the failure of general contractors or subcontractors to perform under their contracts; •adverse weather conditions; •shortages of labor or materials; •our ability to obtain necessary licensing and other required governmental authorizations; and •other unforeseen problems and delays. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot assure you that we will not experience increased construction costs on our construction projects or that we will be able to construct our current or any future construction projects as originally planned. In addition, our current and any future major construction projects would involve a significant commitment of capital with no revenues associated with the projects during construction, which also could have a future adverse impact on our liquidity. 63Table of ContentsIf the costs for construction materials and labor continue to rise, such increased costs could have an adverse impact on the return on investment relating to our expansion projects. The cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased over the past years as a result of global and domestic events. Increases in oil and gas prices have increased costs for oil-based products and for transporting materials to job sites. As we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, we expend significant sums of cash. We evaluate the financial viability of such projects based on whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital. Such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or anticipated volumes do not materialize. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of hospitals could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. Some states require healthcare providers to obtain prior approval, known as Certificates of Need, for: •the purchase, construction or expansion of healthcare facilities; •capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount; or •changes in services or bed capacity. In giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services. Illinois, Michigan and Massachusetts are the only states in which we currently own hospitals that have Certificate of Need laws. The failure to obtain any required Certificate of Need could impair our ability to operate or expand operations in these states. If the fair value of our reporting units declines, a material non-cash charge to earnings from impairment of our goodwill could result. The Blackstone Group L.P., together with its affiliates (collectively, “Blackstone”), acquired our predecessor company during fiscal 2005. We recorded a significant portion of the purchase price as goodwill. At June 30, 2012, we had approximately $768.4 million of goodwill recorded on our financial statements. There is no guarantee that we will be able to recover the carrying value of this goodwill through our future cash flows. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate, based on the fair value of our reporting units, whether the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired. Our hospitals are subject to potential responsibilities and costs under environmental laws that could lead to material expenditures or liability. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the protection of human health and the environment. We could incur substantial costs to maintain compliance with these laws and regulations. To our knowledge, we have not been and are not currently the subject of any material investigations relating to noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. We could become the subject of future investigations, which could lead to fines or criminal penalties if we are found to be in violation of these laws and regulations. The principal environmental requirements and concerns applicable to our operations relate to proper management of regulated materials, including hazardous waste, low-level radioactive and other medical waste, above-ground and underground storage tanks, operation of boilers, chillers and other equipment, and management of building conditions, such as the presence of mold, lead-based paint or asbestos. Our hospitals engage independent contractors for the transportation, handling and disposal of hazardous waste, and we require that our hospitals be named as additional insureds on the liability insurance policies maintained by these contractors. We also may be subject to requirements related to the remediation of hazardous substances and other regulated materials that have been released into the environment at properties now or formerly owned or operated by us or our predecessors, or at properties where such substances and materials were sent for off-site treatment or disposal. Liability for costs of investigation and remediation may be imposed without regard to fault, and under certain circumstances on a joint and several basis and can be substantial. Our Sponsors and certain members of our management continue to have significant influence over us and they may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. We are controlled by private equity funds associated with Blackstone and Metalmark Capital, together with their affiliates (the “Sponsors”), and certain members of our management who are party to a stockholders agreement between such shareholders and us. As of August 1, 2012, our Sponsors owned approximately 48.2% of our common stock through various investment funds affiliated with our Sponsors. Also, as of August 1, 2012, certain members of our management who are party to the stockholders agreement owned approximately 10.0% of our common stock. Our Sponsors have the ability to nominate a majority of our directors provided certain ownership thresholds are maintained, and thereby control our policies and operations, including the appointment of management, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the payment of dividends, 64Table of Contentsif any, on our common stock, the incurrence of debt by us, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the entering into of extraordinary transactions, and their interests may not in all cases be aligned with the interest of our public stockholders. In addition, under the stockholders agreement, Blackstone has consent rights over certain extraordinary transactions by us, including mergers and sales of all or substantially all of our assets, provided a certain ownership threshold is maintained. In addition, the Sponsors may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to us and our public stockholders. For example, the Sponsors could cause us to make acquisitions that increase our indebtedness or to sell revenue-generating assets. As a result, the Sponsors have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction regardless of whether others believe that the transaction is in our best interests. So long as the Sponsors and certain members of our management who are party to the stockholders agreement continue to beneficially own a majority of our outstanding common stock, they will have the ability to control the vote in any election of directors. Our Sponsors are also in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that are complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as the Sponsors and certain members of our management who are party to the stockholders agreement continue to beneficially own a significant amount of our outstanding common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions and the Sponsors will have the right to nominate a certain number of our directors. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our high level of debt and significant leverage may adversely affect our operations and our ability to grow and otherwise execute our business strategy. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of June 30, 2012, we had approximately $2,706.6 million of total indebtedness outstanding, $798.8 million of which was secured indebtedness (consisting of outstanding debt under our senior secured term loan facility maturing in January 2016 (the “2010 Term Loan Facility”, and together with the 2010 Revolving Facility, the “2010 Credit Facilities”) and capital leases). In addition, as of June 30, 2012, we had an additional $333.0 million of secured indebtedness available for borrowing under our senior secured revolving credit facility (the "2010 Revolving Facility"), after taking into account $32.0 million of outstanding letters of credit. In addition, we may request an incremental term loan facility to be added to our 2010 Term Loan Facility to issue additional term loans in such amounts as we determine subject to the receipt of lender commitments and certain other conditions. We may seek to further increase the borrowing capacity under the 2010 Revolving Facility to an amount larger than $365.0 million, subject to the receipt of lender commitments and certain other conditions. The amount of our outstanding indebtedness is substantial compared to the net book value of our assets. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: •our high level of indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the $1,175.0 million 8% senior notes due in 2018 issued in January 2010 and July 2010 (the "8.0% Notes"), the $725.0 million 7.75% senior notes due 2019 issued in January 2011 and March 2012 (the "7.75% Senior Notes") and the 10.375% Senior Discount Note due 2016 (the "Senior Discount Notes"); •limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future capital expenditures, working capital, acquisitions or other needs; •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, market and industry conditions and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, these conditions; •make us vulnerable to increases in interest rates since all of our borrowings under our 2010 Credit Facilities are, and additional borrowings may be, at variable interest rates; •limit our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures, and we may be more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic or industry conditions or be unable to carry out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and our efforts to improve operating margins; •limit our ability to use operating cash in other areas of our business because we must use a substantial portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments; and •limit our ability to compete with others who are not as highly leveraged. 65Table of ContentsOur ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest or to satisfy our other debt obligations, to refinance our indebtedness or to fund capital expenditures will depend on our future operating performance. Prevailing economic conditions (including interest rates) and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will also affect our ability to meet these needs. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or realize anticipated revenue growth or operating improvements, or obtain future borrowings in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt when needed on commercially reasonable terms or at all. A breach of any of the restrictions or covenants in our debt agreements could cause a cross-default under other debt agreements. A significant portion of our indebtedness then may become immediately due and payable. We are not certain whether we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. If any senior debt is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness and our other indebtedness. Despite our current leverage, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks that we and our subsidiaries face. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indentures governing the 8.0% Notes, the 7.75% Senior Notes, the Senior Discount Notes and the 2010 Credit Facilities do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. After giving effect to the Revolving Facility Increase, our 2010 Revolving Facility would provide commitments of up to $365.0 million (not giving effect to any outstanding letters of credit or outstanding borrowings, which would reduce the amount available under our 2010 Revolving Facility). In addition, we may seek to further increase the borrowing availability under the 2010 Revolving Facility and to increase the amount of our 2010 Term Loan Facility as previously described. All of those borrowings would be senior and secured, and, as a result, would be effectively senior to the 8.0% Notes, the 7.75% Senior Notes, the Senior Discount Notes, and the guarantees of the 8.0% Notes and the guarantees of the 7.75% Senior Notes by the guarantors. If we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the 8.0% Notes, the 7.75% Senior Notes and the Senior Discount Notes, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of the 8.0% Notes and the 7.75% Senior Notes in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of us. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. All of the borrowings under the 2010 Credit Facilities bear interest at variable rates. As a result, an increase in interest rates, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability. A 0.25% increase in the expected rate of interest under the 2010 Term Loan Facility would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $2.0 million. The impact of such an increase would be more significant to us than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial debt. We have from time to time managed our exposure to changes in interest rates through the use of interest rate swap agreements on certain portions of our previously outstanding debt and may elect to enter into similar instruments in the future for the 2010 Credit Facilities. If we enter into such derivative instruments, our ultimate interest payments may be greater than those that would be required under existing variable interest rates. Operating and financial restrictions in our debt agreements limit our operational and financial flexibility. The 2010 Credit Facilities and the indentures under which the 8.0% Notes, the Senior Discount Notes and the 7.75% Senior Notes were issued contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: •incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; •pay dividends on or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock or make other restricted payments; •make investments; •enter into certain transactions with affiliates; •limit dividends or other payments by restricted subsidiaries to the issuers of the notes or other restricted subsidiaries; •create liens without securing the notes; •designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and •sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. 66Table of ContentsIn addition, under the 2010 Credit Facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and tests. Events beyond our control may affect our ability to comply with those provisions, and we may not be able to meet those ratios and tests. The breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the 2010 Credit Facilities. In the event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed under the 2010 Credit Facilities, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable and could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. Borrowings under the 2010 Credit Facilities are effectively senior in right of payment to the 8.0% Notes, the Senior Discount Notes and the 7.75% Senior Notes. If any of our indebtedness were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full our indebtedness. Our capital expenditure and acquisition strategies require substantial capital resources. The building of new hospitals and the operations of our existing hospitals and acquired hospitals require ongoing capital expenditures for construction, renovation, expansion and the addition of medical equipment and technology. More specifically, we are contractually obligated to make significant capital expenditures relating to the acquired DMC facilities. Also, construction costs to build new hospitals are substantial and continue to increase. Our debt agreements may restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness to fund these expenditures. A breach of any of the restrictions or covenants in our debt agreements could cause a cross-default under other debt agreements. A significant portion of our indebtedness then may become immediately due and payable. We are not certain whether we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. If any debt is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness and our other indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. In addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness allow us to make significant dividend payments, investments and other restricted payments. The making of these payments could decrease available cash and adversely affect our ability to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations in an attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. The 2010 Credit Facilities and the indentures governing the 8.0% Notes, the Senior Discount Notes and the 7.75% Senior Notes restrict our ability to use the proceeds from asset sales. We may not be able to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair and proceeds that we do receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. We must rely on payments from our subsidiaries to fund payments on our indebtedness. Such funds may not be available in certain circumstances. We are a holding company and all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Therefore, we depend on the cash flows of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our indebtedness. The ability of these subsidiaries to distribute money to us by way of dividends, distributions, interest, return on investments, or other payments (including loans) is subject to various restrictions, including restrictions imposed by the 2010 Credit Facilities and the indentures relating to our existing senior notes; and future debt may also limit such payments. If we default on our obligations to pay our other indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on our existing notes. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under our 2010 Credit Facilities that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness, could make us unable to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our existing notes and substantially decrease the market value of our existing notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including our 2010 Credit Facilities), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, 67Table of Contentsthe holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our 2010 Revolving Facility could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to seek a waiver from the required lenders under our 2010 Credit Facilities to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our 2010 Credit Facilities and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our 2010 Credit Facilities, the lenders could exercise their rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.Not applicable.68Table of Contents