Item 1A. Risk Factors Our debt structure may affect our business and restrict its operating flexibility. On April 1, 2005, we entered into an Amended and Restated Financing Agreement, dated April 1, 2005, among us and Ableco Finance LLC (“Ableco”) as lender and agent (the “Amended Credit Agreement”). The credit facility is secured by a first lien on all of our tangible and intangible assets. The Amended Credit Agreement originally provided for a Term Loan B and a revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2009, the Amended Credit Facility, as a result of subsequent amendments, provided for a revolving loan facility of $3,101,822, of which $601,822 was used to repay the outstanding balance of Term Loan B as of that date. The interest rate applicable to the revolving credit facility under the Amended Credit Agreement is currently 4.50% over the Reference Rate per annum. For purposes of the Amended Credit Agreement, the Reference Rate is equal to the greater of (a) the prime rate, or (b) 7.75% per annum. The revolving loan facility expires on December 31, 2010. The Amended Credit Facility, as most recently amended on December 31, 2010, reduces the availability under the revolving loan facility on the first Business day of each month, commencing on January 1, 2010, by (i) for the month of January 2010, $11,822, (ii) for the months of February, March and April, 2010, $10,000, and (iii) for each month thereafter, $45,000. As of December 31, 2009, the balance outstanding under the revolving credit facility was $1,695,076. The holders of the enherent preferred stock immediately prior to the merger of enherent and Dynax had a redemption right, exercisable at their option, after January 16, 2006, at a value of $1.00 per share. With the consummation of the merger, on April 1, 2005, all of the shares of outstanding preferred stock were converted in a non-cash exchange for an aggregate of 8,500,000 shares of enherent common stock and four subordinated secured notes in the aggregate principal amount of $1,600,500. According to the terms of the three promissory notes held by three former holders of enherent Preferred Stock (the “Preferred Stockholders”) that remain outstanding (having an aggregate principal amount of $1,412,500), 6% interest on the amount outstanding was payable in arrears. These three notes had terms of five years and no principal payments were owed in the first twenty-nine months ending September 1, 2007. Thereafter, semi-annual principal payments in the amount of $177,000 were due for the following two years and for the last year semi-annual principal payments in the 5 amount of $353,000 shall be due. Effective August 10, 2007, we agreed with the former Preferred Stockholders to amend and restate the promissory notes. The three outstanding amended and restated notes have an aggregate principal amount of $1,412,500 and a maturity date of July 1, 2011, with no principal payments due until January 1, 2009. Thereafter, semi-annual principal payments of $177,000 are due for the following two years and for the last year semi-annual principal payments of $353,000 are due. No payments have been made to the Preferred Stockholders since the inception of the notes. Interest continues to accrue at 6% and is payable at maturity. At December 31, 2009, the outstanding principal balance on the three notes was $1,412,500. The outstanding notes issued to the Preferred Stockholders are secured by liens on all our tangible and intangible assets, which lien is subordinated to the lien securing the credit facility. We have three subordinated notes relating to prior Dynax acquisitions bearing interest rates of between prime and prime plus 1%. At December 31, 2009, the outstanding principal balance outstanding was $457,000. The acquisition notes are subordinated to Ableco. Any payments of principal or interest on the indebtedness will be subordinated in accordance with the terms and conditions of the senior secured lender. No payments were made subsequent to March 31, 2004. At December 31, 2009, interest of $387,234 has accrued on these notes. At December 31, 2009 after giving effect to the amendment to the Amended Credit Agreement discussed above, the Company’s long-term obligations with maturities of less than one year totaling $2.4 million consisted primarily of the Ableco’s revolving asset based credit facility of $1.7 million and $0.7 million of principal payments due to notes held by former enherent Preferred Stockholders. Our current debt structure could: • limit cash flow available for general corporate purposes, such as acquisitions, due to the ongoing cash flow requirements for debt service; • limit our ability to obtain in the future, or obtain on favorable terms, additional debt financing for working capital or acquisitions; • limit our flexibility in reacting to competitive and other changes in our industry and economic conditions generally; • expose us to a risk that a substantial decrease in net operating cash flows due to economic developments or adverse developments in the business could make it difficult to meet debt service requirements; • increase vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and • expose us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because of the variable interest rate of the credit facility, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates. Our ability to repay or to refinance the indebtedness will depend primarily upon our future operating performance, which may be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control, including those discussed herein. In addition, we cannot assure you that future borrowings or equity financing will be available for the payment or refinancing of any indebtedness we may have. If we are unable to service our indebtedness or maintain covenant compliance, whether in the ordinary course of business or upon acceleration of such indebtedness, we may be forced to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking additional equity capital. There can be no assurances that any of these strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments could trigger prepayment obligations. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and rates. 6 Prolonged weakness in the national economy or in the information technology services market could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As widely reported, global credit and financial markets began experiencing extreme disruptions during the second half of 2008, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. These economic circumstances have affected businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The tightening of credit in financial markets has led businesses to postpone spending, which has caused certain of our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. The continuing disruption in the credit markets has severely restricted access to capital. As a result, the ability to incur additional indebtedness to fund operations or refinance maturing obligations as they become due is significantly constrained. We are unable to predict how much longer these conditions will persist, but if they persist for an extended period or worsen, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, the market for our services can change rapidly. Our future growth is dependent upon the information technology services we provide. Demand and market acceptance for information technology services are subject to a high level of uncertainty. Prolonged weakness in the information technology services industry has caused in the past, and may cause in the future, business enterprises to delay or cancel information technology projects, reduce their overall budgets and/or reduce or cancel orders for our services. This, in turn, may lead to longer sales cycles, delays in purchase decisions, payment and collection, and may also result in price pressures, causing us to realize lower revenues and operating margins. If companies cancel or delay their business and technology initiatives or choose to move these initiatives in-house, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The loss of even one significant client or any significant reduction in the use of our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from large-scale engagements with a limited number of clients. For the year ended December 31, 2009, enherent’s five largest customers represented 57.8% of its total revenues. During that period, the five largest customers and their percentages of enherent’s total revenues were New York City Department of Homeless Services—25.4%; Mass Mutual—18.9%; Deloitte—4.5%; Aetna—4.5%; and SAIC—4.4%. The mix of significant clients and their respective percentages will vary for different periods in time due to overall revenue levels, new clients being added and changes in activity within specific accounts. The loss of any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on a limited number of clients results in a significant concentration of credit risk. Due to our dependence on a limited number of clients, we are subject to a concentration of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable. In the case of insolvency by one of our significant clients, accounts receivable with respect to that client might not be collectible, might not be fully collectible or might be collectible over longer than normal terms, each of which could adversely affect enherent’s financial position. As of December 31, 2009, our accounts receivable totaled $1.4 million. Of this amount, $673,000, or 49.0% was due from our five largest customers. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer credit losses in the future. Most of our contracts are terminable by our clients with limited notice and without penalty payments, and early terminations could have a material adverse effect on business, operating results and financial condition. Most of our contracts are terminable by the client following limited notice and without early termination payments or liquidated damages due from them. In addition, each stage of a project often represents a separate contractual commitment, at the end of which the client may elect to delay or not to proceed to the next stage of 7 the project. While, to date, none of our clients have terminated a material contract or materially reduced the scope of a large project, we cannot assure you that one or more of our clients will not take such actions in the future. The delay, cancellation or significant reduction in the scope of a large project or number of projects could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we raise additional capital in the future, our existing stockholders may suffer substantial dilution. We may need to raise additional capital in order to ensure a sufficient supply of cash for continued operations or to finance acquisitions. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. Changes in equity markets over the past five years have adversely affected the ability of companies to raise equity financing and have adversely affected the markets for financing or companies with a history of losses such as ours. Additional financing may require us to take on more debt, including convertible debt, or to issue additional shares of our common stock, or preferred stock convertible into common stock, such that our existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution. Our failure to successfully identify, acquire or integrate new businesses could have a negative effect on our operations; our acquisitions could cause financial difficulties. As part of our business strategy, we evaluate potential acquisitions in the ordinary course, some of which could be material. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or integrate successfully any acquired businesses without substantial expense, delay or other operational or functional problems. Any acquisition would involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: • adverse effects on our reported operating results due to charges to earnings, including impairment charges associated with goodwill and other intangibles; • diversion of management attention from running our businesses; • integration of technology, operations, personnel and financial and other systems; • internal controls over financial reporting of acquired companies may not initially be up to our standards; • increased expenses, including compensation expenses resulting from newly hired employees; • increased foreign operations, often with unique issues relating to corporate culture, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; • assumption of known and unknown liabilities and exposure to litigation; • increased levels of debt or dilution of existing shareholders; • potential disputes with the sellers of acquired businesses, technology, services or products; • over-valuation by us of acquired companies; and • insufficient indemnification from the selling parties for legal liabilities incurred by the acquired companies prior to the acquisitions. Our integration activities may place substantial demand on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems. Customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired business, technology, service or product could also have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. In addition, any acquired business, technology, service or product could underperform relative to our expectations. 8 A significant portion of our total assets consists of goodwill, which is subject to a periodic impairment analysis and a significant impairment determination in any future period could have an adverse effect on our results of operations even without a significant loss of revenue or increase in cash expenses attributable to such period. We had goodwill totaling approximately $4.3 million prior to two impairment charges of $800,000 in 2009 and $715,000 in 2008, leaving a balance of approximately $2.8 million at December 31, 2009. This goodwill resulted from the merger of Dynax and enherent. We evaluate this goodwill for impairment based on the fair value of the operating business units to which this goodwill relates at least once a year. The Company generally determines the fair value of a reporting unit using a combination of the income approach, which is based on the present value of estimated future cash flows, and the market approach, which compares the business unit’s multiples of sales and EBITDA to those multiples of its competitors. Based upon indicators of impairment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, which included a significant decrease in our market capitalization, a decline in recent operating results, and a decline in the Company’s business outlook due primarily to the current macroeconomic environment, the Company performed an interim impairment test as of December 31, 2009. The Company completed the impairment analysis and concluded that the fair value was below the carrying value of goodwill. The Company recorded an impairment charge of $800,000 and $715,000 as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. This estimated fair value of our goodwill could change if we are unable to achieve operating results at the levels that have been forecasted, the market valuation of our business decreases based on transactions involving similar companies, or there is a permanent, negative change in the market demand for the services offered by the Company. These changes could result in a further impairment of the existing goodwill balance that could require a material non-cash charge to our results of operations. There are risks associated with placing employees and independent contractors at clients’ businesses which could result in costly and time-consuming litigation. We could be subject to liability if any of the following risks associated with placing employees or independent contractors at clients’ businesses occur: • liabilities for errors and omissions by our employees or independent contractors; • injury to client employees; • misappropriation of client property; • possible claims of discrimination and harassment; • misuse of client proprietary information or intellectual property; • torts and other similar claims; or • other criminal activity. Our failure to meet clients’ expectations could result in losses or negative publicity and could subject us to liability for the services we provide. Many of our engagements involve services that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. Although we attempt to contractually limit our liability for damages arising from errors, mistakes, omissions or negligent acts in rendering our services, there can be no assurance that our attempts to limit liability will be successful. Additionally, our attempts to contractually reduce liability with many of our largest clients have met with limited success. Our failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations in the performance of our services could result in a material adverse effect on the client’s operations and, therefore, could give rise to claims against us or result in negative publicity damaging our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 9 The existence of vendor management organizations in the information technology market could have a material adverse effect on our business. Many companies contracting with information technology professional services firms have engaged vendor management organizations, or human capital management firms, to assist them in managing and reducing their information technology expenditures. The increased involvement of these vendor management organizations in the information technology industry has caused companies in the information technology industry to face a reduction in preferred vendor status, an increase in competition, a reduction in revenues, and an increase in fees paid to vendor management organizations. In our experience, vendor management organization fees charged to information technology professional services firms typically range from 2% to 5% of those firms’ billing rates. The increased involvement of vendor management organizations in the information technology industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Company’s business is dependent upon general economic and other business conditions and other general conditions. The demand for the Company’s services is dependent upon general economic conditions. The Company’s business tends to suffer during economic downturns, such as the current recession. The recent slowing of the economy has already adversely affected the Company’s revenue and operating profit and the continuation of the current recession could further adversely affect the Company’s revenues and operating profit. While the Company attempts to manage its costs, including its personnel, in relation to its business volume, these efforts may not be successful and the timing of these efforts and associated costs may adversely affect the Company’s results. The weakened economy results in decreased demand for temporary and permanent personnel. When economic activity slows down, many of the Company’s customers reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees resulting in decreased demand for contingent workers. A number of customers in 2009 reduced their workforces, including contingent labor. There is also less need for contingent workers by all customers and potential customers, who are less inclined to add to their costs. Since employees are also reluctant to risk changing employers, there are fewer openings available and therefore reduced activity in permanent placements as well. In addition, while in many fields there are ample applicants for available positions, variations in the rate of unemployment and higher wages sought by temporary workers in certain technical fields which still experience labor shortages could affect the Company’s ability to meet its customers’ demands in these fields and adversely affect the Company’s profit margins. The loss of our software or hardware partnerships with IBM would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business relationship with IBM enables us to reduce our cost of sales and increase win rates through leveraging our partners’ marketing efforts and strong vendor endorsements. The loss of this relationship could increase our sales and marketing costs, lead to longer sales cycles, harm our reputation and brand recognition, reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. In particular, a significant number of our customers for hardware, software and certain services are identified through joint selling opportunities conducted with IBM and through sales leads obtained from our relationship with IBM. The loss of our relationship with, or a significant reduction in the services we perform for IBM, would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We depend on contracts with certain federal and state government agencies for a meaningful portion of our revenue, and if the spending policies or budget priorities of these agencies change, we could lose revenue. The market for certain of our services depends largely on federal and state legislative programs and the budgetary capability to support programs, including the continuance of existing programs. These programs can be modified or amended at any time by acts of federal and state governments. Many government budgets have been adversely impacted by the economic slowdown. Changes in government initiatives or in the level of government spending due to budgetary or deficit considerations may have a significant impact on our future financial performance. 10 Acts of war or terrorism, or related effects could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. An act of war or terrorism could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. For example, in the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, we had customers whose offices were destroyed, which resulted in an interruption in projects and related revenues. Acts of war or terrorism also could result in loss of key employees, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, the related effects of an act of war or terrorism, such as disruptions in air transportation and enhanced security measures may interfere with our ability to provide services to our clients. Finally, an act of war or terrorism may result in a significant reduction in client spending or contribute to an economic downturn and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our failure to continue to recruit and retain qualified information technology professionals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is labor-intensive. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain information technology professionals, who include billable consultants and sales and recruiting professionals. Billable consultants are those employees or independent contractors who possess the necessary technical skills and experience or can be trained to deliver our services. Sales and recruiting professionals are those employees who possess the necessary skills, experience and contacts to sell our services and recruit billable consultants. We are required to continually evaluate, upgrade and supplement our billable consultants to keep pace with changing client needs and technologies and to fill new positions. The IT staffing industry in particular has high turnover rates and is affected by the supply of and demand for qualified information technology professionals. Qualified information technology professionals are in high demand worldwide and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Some of our major customers may also hire our billable consultants. Direct hiring by our customers adversely affects our turnover rate. There can be no assurance that we will continue to have access to qualified information technology professionals, will be successful in retaining current or future information technology professionals or that the cost of employing and subcontracting such information technology professionals will not increase due to shortages. Failure to attract or retain qualified information technology professionals in sufficient numbers or an increase in the turnover rate among our billable consultants could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely heavily on executive management and could be adversely affected if our executive management team was not available. We are highly dependent on our senior executives, including Pamela Fredette, our Chairman, CEO and President since the completion of our merger with Dynax in April 2005. Prior to the merger, she had served as Dynax’s Chief Executive Officer and President, and as a director, since joining Dynax in June 2002. On December 3, 2007, we entered into the First Amendment to Employment Agreement with Ms. Fredette pursuant to which the term of her employment was extended from March 31, 2008 to March 31, 2010, subject thereafter to automatic annual renewals absent notice of termination by us or Ms. Fredette. On December 1, 2008, we entered into the Second Amendment to the Employment Agreement with Ms. Fredette pursuant to which her base salary was set at $300,000 effective January 1, 2009. On May 14, 2009, we entered into the Third Amendment to the Employment Agreement with Ms. Fredette pursuant to which her base salary was set at $250,000 effective May 16, 2009. The loss of the services of Ms. Fredette could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We may lose executive officers and senior managers on whom we rely to generate business and execute projects successfully. The ability of our executive officers and our senior managers to generate business and execute projects successfully is important to our success. While we have employment agreements with some of our executive 11 officers, those agreements do not prevent them from terminating their employment with us. The loss of an executive officer or senior manager could impair our ability to secure and manage engagements, which could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and operating results may lead to reduced prices for our stock. Our revenues and operating results are subject to significant variation from quarter to quarter and we anticipate that our revenues and operating results will be subject to significant variation depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: (i) the timing and number of client projects commenced (or delayed or terminated by the client) and completed during the quarter, (ii) the number of working days in a quarter and (iii) employee hiring, attrition, vacations and utilization rates. Because a high percentage of our expenses, in particular personnel and facilities costs, will be relatively fixed, variations in revenues may cause significant variations in our operating results. Additionally, we will periodically incur cost increases due to both the hiring of new employees and strategic investments in our infrastructure in anticipation of future projects and opportunities for revenue growth. Quarterly results are likely to fluctuate, which may cause a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The use of fixed-price engagements could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We principally bill for our services on a time-and-materials basis. We sometimes enter into fixed-price billing engagements and may in the future enter into additional engagements billed on a fixed-price basis. While our business, operating results and financial condition have not been materially adversely affected by any failure on our part to complete a fixed-price engagement within budget in the past, any such failure in the future could expose us to risks associated with cost overruns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The information technology services industry is highly competitive and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully. We experience intense competition. The market for information technology services is very broad, and these services are offered by a large number of private and public companies, many of which are significantly larger than, and have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than, we do. Competitors include Albano Systems, Inc., Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, Computer Task Group, iGate Corp, Prolifics and TEK systems. The trend toward offshore outsourcing, internal expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and continuing technological changes will also result in new and different competitors entering our markets. These competitors may include entrants from the communications, software and data networking industries or entrants in geographic locations with lower costs than those in which we operate. Additionally, in certain sectors of our business, particularly information technology services, there are few barriers to entry and new competitors do and are expected to enter the market. As competitors enter the market to provide services similar to those offered by us, our ability to compete effectively will increasingly depend upon the quality and price of our services. We may not be able to compete effectively, in which case competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The information technology sector is rapidly changing and evolving and failure of enherent to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The information technology services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, shifting client preferences and new product developments. The introduction of competitive information technology solutions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing information technology solutions, skills base or underlying technologies obsolete or unmarketable. As a result, we will depend in large part upon our ability to develop new information technology solutions and capabilities 12 that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and keep pace with new, competitive service and product offerings and emerging industry standards to achieve broad market acceptance. We cannot assure you that: (i) we will be successful in developing and marketing new information technology solutions that respond to technological changes, shifting client requirements or evolving industry standards; (ii) we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these new information technology solutions; or (iii) our information technology solutions will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Any failure to respond to technological change or evolving industry standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on our intellectual property rights, which may not be properly protected or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. In order to protect our proprietary rights in our various intellectual properties, we currently rely on copyrights, trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how that may be duplicated by others. We employ various methods, including nondisclosure agreements and other contractual arrangements with employees and suppliers and technical protective measures to protect our proprietary know-how. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our intellectual property, or that we will be able to deter unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. The failure of such protective measures could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that other persons will not independently develop such know-how or obtain access to it, or independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to enherent’s technology. We presently hold no patents or registered copyrights, but we have several registered trademarks, including those for “enherent”, the enherent logo, “Dynax” and the Dynax logo. Although we believe that our intellectual property rights, including intellectual property rights licensed from third parties, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we cannot assure you that: (i) such a claim will not be asserted against us in the future; (ii) assertion of such claims will not result in litigation or that we would prevail in such litigation or be able to obtain a license for the use of any infringed intellectual property from a third party on commercially reasonable terms; or (iii) any of our software could be redesigned on an economical basis or at all, or that any such redesigned software would be competitive with the software of our competitors. We expect that the risk of infringement claims against us will increase if more of our competitors are able to successfully obtain patents for software products and processes. Any such claims, regardless of their outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to “penny stock” regulations which could reduce trading activity and liquidity in our common stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks.” Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). Penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC, which specifies information about penny stocks and the nature and significance of risks of the penny stock market. A broker-dealer must also provide the customer with, among other things, bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer, and monthly account statements indicating the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. 13 These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the trading activity in the secondary market for stock that becomes subject to those penny stock rules. Holders of securities subject to the penny stock rules may have difficulty in selling those securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 