Item 1A. Risk Factors This section describes material risks affecting our business. In addition, in connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this annual report, we urge you to review carefully not only the factors discussed below but also the cautionary statements referred to in “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to the Merger Combining the businesses of RAIT and Taberna may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than we expected. We completed our acquisition of Taberna through a merger transaction in December 2006. It is possible that the process of integrating RAIT and Taberna could result in the disruption of our business or inconsistencies in our standards, systems, controls, procedures and policies. This could adversely affect our ability to manage our business or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Moreover, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their roles with the combined company. Our success may depend in large part on our ability to integrate the two businesses successfully and our future growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to maintain an operating platform and management system sufficient to address our growth. As a result, we face significant challenges: • in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, • implementing new or updated information and financial systems and procedures, and • in training, managing and appropriately sizing our work force and other components of our business on a timely and cost-effective basis. If we are not able to manage our expanding operations effectively or cannot continue to grow, we may be unable to control our expenses or generate revenues sufficient to increase or maintain our current level of distributions. Risks Related to Our Business Our organizational documents do not limit our ability to enter into new lines of businesses, and we may enter into new businesses, make future strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. Our organizational documents do not limit us to our current business lines. Accordingly, we may pursue growth through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures, which may include entering into new lines of business. In addition, we expect opportunities will arise to acquire other companies, including REITs, managers of investment products or originators of real estate debt. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, enter into joint ventures, or enter into a new line of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with (i) the required investment of capital and other resources, (ii) the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk, and (iii) combining or integrating operational and management systems and controls and (iv) compliance with applicable regulatory requirements including those required under the Internal Revenue Code and the Investment Company Act. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. If a new business generates insufficient revenue or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputation damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. 24 Failure to procure adequate capital and funding would adversely affect our results. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital from a limited number of sources. The failure to secure financing on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts could reduce our taxable income by increasing our financing expense. A reduction in our net taxable income could impair our liquidity and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. Pending the structuring of a CDO or other securitization or term financing arrangement, we may finance assets through borrowings under short-term warehouse and repurchase facilities. Our lenders may decline to purchase assets on our behalf at their sole discretion and we are subject to conditions under these warehouse arrangements that are independent of our performance or the performance of the underlying assets, including, for example, eligibility requirements, the state of the CDO market or market for similar assets generally, regulations or internal policies governing our lenders’ operations and concentration limits or other limits or requirements imposed on securitized pools by rating agencies. Our ability to obtain or continue repurchase facilities may also depend on the counterparties’ ability to refinance our obligations with third parties. If there is a disruption of the repurchase market or in the securitization market generally, or if one of the counterparties is itself unable to access the repurchase market, or is unwilling to finance assets that we present for financing for any other reason, our ability to conduct our business would be impaired. In addition, if the regulatory capital requirements imposed on our lenders change, the lenders may decline to provide financing to us at acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or replace our respective financing arrangements when they expire or if terminated on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Our business requires a significant amount of cash, and if such cash is not available, our business and financial performance will be significantly harmed. Our business requires a substantial amount of cash to fund investments, to pay expenses and to acquire and hold assets. As REITs, we and Taberna must distribute at least 90% of REIT taxable income to our respective shareholders, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, which substantially limits our ability to accumulate cash from our operations. In addition, since most of our borrowing arrangements allow our lenders to make margin calls, we could be required to make cash payments to our lenders in the event that there is a decline in the market value of the assets that collateralize our debt or for other reasons. We expect that our primary sources of working capital and cash will consist of: • the net proceeds of offerings of our securities; • warehouse and repurchase facilities and secured and unsecured lines of credit; • operating profits and the proceeds from financing our investments. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate a sufficient amount of cash to execute successfully our business strategy. Our reliance on significant amounts of debt to finance investments may subject us to an increased risk of loss, reduce our return on investments, reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders and possibly result in the foreclosure of any assets subject to secured financing. We incur a significant amount of debt to finance operations, which could compound losses and reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We generally leverage our portfolio through the use of bank credit facilities, repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities, CDOs, other securitizations and other borrowings. The leverage we employ will vary depending on our ability to obtain financing, the loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios of the assets, the yield on the assets, the targeted leveraged return we expect from the portfolio 25 and our ability to meet ongoing covenants related to our asset mix and financial performance. Changes in market conditions may cause the cost of financing to increase relative to the income that we can derive from investments, which may impair the returns we can achieve and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Our debt service payments reduce the net income available for distributions to our shareholders. Moreover, we may not be able to meet debt service obligations to which we are subject. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for borrowings. In addition, the assets of the CDOs that we consolidate collateralize the debt obligations of the CDOs and are not available to satisfy other creditors. To the extent that we fail to meet debt service obligations, we risk the loss of some or all of our respective assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy these debt obligations. Under repurchase agreements, our lenders may have the ability to liquidate our assets through an expedited process. Currently, our declaration of trust and bylaws do not impose any limitations on the extent to which we may leverage our respective assets. As our warehouse facilities or other short-term borrowing instruments mature, we will be required either to enter into new financing arrangements or to sell certain of our portfolio investments. An increase in short-term interest rates at the time that we seek to enter into new financing arrangements would reduce the spread between returns on our portfolio investments and the cost of our borrowings. This change in interest rates would reduce returns on our portfolio investments that are subject to prepayment risk, including our mortgage-backed securities investments, which might reduce earnings and, in turn, distributions we make to our shareholders. Our financing arrangements contain covenants that restrict our operations, and any default under these arrangements would inhibit our ability to grow our business, increase revenue and pay distributions to our shareholders. Our financing arrangements contain extensive restrictions and covenants. Failure to meet or satisfy any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. These agreements may contain cross-default provisions so that an event of default under any agreement will trigger an event of default under other agreements, giving our lenders the right to declare all amounts outstanding under their particular credit agreement to be immediately due and payable, and enforce their rights by foreclosing on or otherwise liquidating collateral pledged under these agreements. Our financing arrangements also restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • make certain investments or acquisitions; and • engage in mergers or consolidations. Furthermore, certain of our repurchase agreements, for example, require that we satisfy certain covenants with respect to our financial condition and maintain our qualification as a REIT, and restrict our ability to make material changes to our business and to enter into transactions with affiliates. In addition, under certain related repurchase agreement guarantees, we may not, without the prior written consent of the lender, pay dividends in excess of what is reasonably necessary for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Upon an event of default, we are prohibited from paying any dividend without the prior written consent of the lender. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or to engage in other business activities. Furthermore, our default under any of our financing arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. 26 Our hedging transactions may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk, which could cause volatility in our earnings. Subject to limits imposed by our desire to maintain our and Taberna’s respective qualification as a REIT, we enter into hedging transactions to limit exposure to changes in interest rates. We are therefore exposed to risks associated with such transactions. We have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, interest rate swap agreements. We may also use instruments such as forward contracts and interest rate caps, currency swaps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of portfolio positions from changes in market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we would not be able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of hedging transactions undertaken by us will depend on our ability to structure and execute effective hedges for the assets we hold and, to a degree, on our ability to anticipate interest rate or currency value fluctuations, the expected life of our assets or other factors. Our failure to do so may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. For accounting purposes, our interest in our warehouse facilities is reflected in our financial statements as a non-hedge derivative and is recorded at fair value. Changes in the fair value of this non-hedge derivative are reflected in our earnings. Changes in fair value can be caused by changes in interest rates that are not fully hedged. To the extent that we fail to hedge fully against adverse fluctuations in interest rates, our earnings will be impacted. Accounting for hedges under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, is extremely complicated. We may fail to qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with GAAP, which could have a material effect on our earnings as described above. While we use hedging to mitigate certain risks, our failure to completely insulate the portfolios from those risks may cause greater volatility in our earnings. Our ability to use TRSs, and consequently our ability to establish fee-generating businesses and invest in CDOs, will be limited by the election made by Taberna and us, respectively, to be taxed as a REIT, which may adversely affect returns to our shareholders. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of securities of one or more TRSs. Taberna Capital, Taberna Securities, Taberna Capital (Bermuda) Ltd., which we refer to as Taberna Bermuda, Taberna Securities (U.K.) Ltd., which we refer to as Taberna Securities UK, Taberna Funding LLC, which we refer to as Taberna Funding, Taberna Equity Funding and our non-U.S. corporate subsidiaries are TRSs. We expect to own interests in additional TRSs in the future, particularly in connection with our CDO transactions. However, our ability to invest in CDOs that are structured as TRSs and to expand the fee-generating businesses of Taberna Capital and Taberna Securities, as well as the business of Taberna Funding, Taberna Securities UK and future TRSs we may form, will be limited by our and Taberna’s need to meet this 20% test, which may adversely affect distributions we pay to our shareholders. 27 We operate in a highly competitive market which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We are subject to significant competition in all of our business lines. We compete with many third parties engaged in finance and real estate investment activities, including other REITs, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, lenders, governmental bodies and other entities. Various third parties have raised substantial funds, or are seeking to raise funds, in order to offer TruPS and commercial real estate loans or similar products to our target customers and have sponsored CDOs to finance such offerings. We expect that competition will continue to increase, and that other companies and funds with investment objectives similar to ours may be organized in the future. Some of these competitors have, or in the future may have, substantially greater financial resources than we do and generally may be able to accept more risk. As such, they have the ability to make larger loans and to reduce the risk of loss from any one loan by having a more diversified loan portfolio. They may also enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. An increase in the general availability of funds to lenders, or a decrease in the amount of borrowing activity, may increase competition for making loans and may reduce obtainable yields or increase the credit risk inherent in the available loans. In addition, competition may lead us to pay a greater portion of the origination fees that we expect to collect in our future origination activities to third-party investment banks and brokers that introduce their clients to us in order to continue to generate new business from these sources or otherwise may reduce the fees we are able to earn in connection with our business lines. Competition may limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us. It may also result in higher prices, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs, making it more difficult for us to acquire new investments on attractive terms and reducing the fee income we realize from the origination, structuring and management of CDOs. It may also make it more difficult to obtain appreciation interests and increase the price, and thus reduce potential yields, on discounted loans we acquire. Cohen Brothers, LLC d/b/a Cohen & Company, or C & Co., and its various subsidiaries or entities managed by its affiliates will compete with us in the origination of TruPS or similar instruments upon the termination of the non-competition agreement between Taberna and C & Co. C & Co. is a diversified financial services company with significant experience in originating TruPS and other preferred equity securities and structuring and managing securitizations or CDOs involving such securities. This agreement terminates on the earliest to occur of (a) any date mutually agreed upon by both parties; (b) the occurrence of a change of control of Taberna (other than pursuant to Taberna’s merger involving us); (c) April 28, 2008; or (d) the date that Daniel G. Cohen’s employment as Taberna’s chief executive officer is terminated by Taberna without cause. There are no agreements that prevent C & Co., its affiliates or entities managed by them from competing with us in any other aspects of our business. We may not be able to acquire eligible securities for CDO issuances or other securitizations on favorable economic terms, and may not be able to structure CDOs and other securitizations on attractive terms. The assets acquired by our warehouse providers or financed by us using repurchase agreements may not be suitable for a future CDO transaction, which may require us to seek more costly financing for investments or to liquidate assets. We acquire real estate securities and mortgage loans and finance them on a long-term basis through the issuance of CDOs and other types of securitizations. Under our TruPS warehouse facilities, we direct the acquisition of securities by banks that are our warehouse providers. However, our warehouse providers have the right to decline to acquire the securities we identify. We deposit cash and other collateral, which is held in escrow by the warehouse providers to cover our share of losses in the event that such securities need to be liquidated. The warehouse providers then purchase the securities and hold them on their balance sheet. Our lenders have the right to liquidate assets acquired under our warehouse facilities upon the occurrence of certain 28 events, such as a default or a decline in credit quality that may lead to a default. We will share in losses suffered by our lenders in the event of a liquidation, generally up to the value of the collateral we maintain with the lenders although, if we have engaged in fraud, intentional misconduct or criminal conduct, some of our warehouse facilities make us fully liable for any losses. We are also subject to the risk that, during the warehouse period, a sufficient amount of eligible assets will not be acquired to maximize the efficiency of a CDO issuance or other securitization and the risk that the assets acquired by our warehouse providers may not be suitable for a CDO issuance. In addition, disruptions in the capital markets generally, or in the securitization markets, specifically, may make the issuance of a CDO or another securitization transaction less attractive or even impossible. If we are unable to securitize assets, or if doing so is not economical, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or to liquidate assets at a price that could result in a loss of all or a portion of the cash and other collateral backing our purchase commitment. The use of CDO financings with over-collateralization requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flow and may trigger certain termination provisions in the related collateral management agreements. The terms of the CDOs we structure generally provide that the principal amount of assets must exceed the principal balance of the related securities issued by them by a certain amount, commonly referred to as “over-collateralization.” The CDO terms provide that, if certain delinquencies and/or losses exceed the specified levels based on the analysis by the rating agencies (or any financial guaranty insurer) of the characteristics of the assets collateralizing the CDO securities, the required level of over-collateralization may be increased or may be prevented from decreasing as would otherwise be permitted if losses or delinquencies did not exceed those levels. In addition, a failure by a CDO to satisfy an over-collateralization test typically results in accelerated distributions to the holders of the senior debt securities issued by the CDOs. Our equity holdings and, when we acquire debt interests in CDOs, our debt interests, are subordinate in right of payment to the other classes of debt securities issued by the CDOs. Other tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may restrict our ability to receive cash distributions from assets collateralizing the CDO securities. There can be no assurance that the performance tests will be satisfied. In advance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies or other key transaction parties on our future CDOs, there can be no assurance of the actual terms of the CDO delinquency tests, over-collateralization terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors regarding the calculation of our net income. Failure to obtain favorable terms with regard to these matters may materially and adversely affect our net income. In addition, collateral management agreements typically provide that if certain over-collateralization tests are failed, the collateral management agreement may be terminated by a vote of the security holders. If the assets held by CDOs fail to perform as anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected, and over-collateralization or other credit enhancement expenses associated with our CDO financings will increase. Our CDOs and other securitizations are collateralized with loans and real estate securities, and any adverse market trends that affect these real estate securities are likely to adversely affect our CDOs and other securitizations. We expect that future CDO issuances and other securitizations by us will be backed by mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, TruPS, other senior and subordinated real estate company securities, other preferred securities, RMBS, CMBS or other real estate-related securities. Any adverse market trends that affect the value of these types of assets will adversely impact the value of our interests in CDOs and other securitizations. Such trends could include declines in real estate values in certain geographic markets or sectors, underperformance of real estate securities issued in a particular year, or changes in U.S. federal income tax laws that could affect the performance of securities issued by REITs and other real estate operating companies. Representations and warranties made by us in loan sales and securitizations may subject us to liability that could result in loan losses and could harm our operating results and, therefore distributions we make to our shareholders. In connection with securitizations, we make representations and warranties regarding the assets transferred into securitization trusts. The trustee in the securitizations has recourse to us with respect to the breach of the 29 representations and warranties regarding the loans made at the time such assets are transferred. While we generally have recourse to loan originators for any such breaches, there can be no assurance of the originators’ abilities to honor their respective obligations. We generally attempt to limit the potential remedies of the trustee to the potential remedies we have against the originators from whom we acquired the assets. However, in some cases, the remedies available to the trustee may be broader than those available to us against the originators of the assets and, in the event the trustee enforces its remedies against us, we may not always be able to enforce whatever remedies are available to us against the originators of the loans. Furthermore, if we discover, prior to the securitization of a mortgage loan that there is any fraud or misrepresentation with respect to the mortgage and the originator fails to repurchase the mortgage, then we may not be able to sell the mortgage or may have to sell the mortgage at a discount. Loss of our management team or the ability to attract and retain key employees could harm our business. The real estate finance business is very labor-intensive. We depend on our management team to attract customers for financing by, among other things, developing relationships with issuers, financial institutions and others. These relationships can lead to repeat and referral business. The market for skilled personnel is highly competitive and has historically experienced a high rate of turnover. Due to the nature of our business, we compete for qualified personnel not only with companies in our business, but also in other sectors of the financial services industry. Competition for qualified personnel may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract or retain qualified personnel at reasonable costs or at all. If we are unable to attract or retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel at manageable costs, it could impair our ability to execute our investment strategies successfully, reduce our earnings and reduce our ability to increase or maintain our current level of distributions. We depend on information systems and third parties. Systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, impair our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Our business depends on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of these systems could cause delays or other problems in our activities, which could reduce our earnings and our operating results and negatively affect our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We receive collateral management fees pursuant to collateral management agreements for services provided by our subsidiaries for acting as the collateral manager of CDOs sponsored by us. We expect to receive similar fees for future CDO transactions. If a collateral management agreement is terminated or if the securities serving as collateral for a CDO are prepaid, the collateral management fees will be reduced or eliminated. Our subsidiaries receive collateral management fees pursuant to collateral management agreements for acting as the collateral manager of CDOs sponsored by us. If all the notes issued by a CDO for which one of our subsidiaries acts as collateral manager are redeemed, or if the collateral management agreement is otherwise terminated, we will no longer receive collateral management fees from that subsidiary with respect to that CDO. In general, a collateral management agreement may be terminated both with and without cause at the direction of holders of specified supermajority in principal amount of the notes issued by the CDO. Furthermore, such fees are based on the total amount of collateral held by the CDOs. If the securities serving as collateral for a CDO are prepaid or go into default, we will receive lower collateral management fees than expected. An increase in current interest rates could make our TruPS product a less attractive financing option for REITs and real estate operating companies. The pricing of our TruPS product is based on LIBOR, which is a variable rate. We believe that LIBOR-based pricing is currently attractive to mid-size REITs and real estate operating companies, in part because it 30 results in lower funding costs for issuers, based upon current interest rates. However, an increase in current interest rates could make our LIBOR-based TruPS less attractive to REITs and real estate operating companies as compared to other financing alternatives. A decrease in the demand for our TruPS product would impair our ability to execute our investment strategies successfully, reduce our earnings and reduce our ability to increase or maintain our current level of distributions. We depend upon C & Co. and its affiliates to provide us with various services. If our shared services agreement with C & Co. is terminated, we may not be able to timely replace these services on terms favorable to us. Under the shared services agreement that Taberna entered into with C & Co., C & Co. agreed to provide Taberna directly or through its subsidiaries, with various services, including assistance with structuring and managing Taberna’s investments in mortgage loans and other mortgage-backed securities, accounting support and cash management services and administrative services. We rely on C & Co. to provide these services, and we currently have no in-house capability to handle these services independent of C & Co. If the shared services agreement is terminated, we will have to obtain such services or hire employees to perform them. We may not be able to replace these services or hire such employees in a timely manner or on terms, including cost and level of expertise, that are as favorable as those we received from C & Co. We are subject to potential conflicts of interest arising from the relationship our chief executive officer and a trustee has with C & Co., its affiliates, and Alesco Financial Inc., in particular relating to the time he may devote to other matters for C & Co. and Alesco Financial Inc. Our conflicts of interest policies may not successfully eliminate the influence of such conflicts. Our chief executive officer and trustee, Daniel G. Cohen, also serves as the chairman of C & Co. and of Alesco Financial Inc., a REIT that invests in highly-rated RMBS and CMBS, residential mortgage loans, TruPS issued by banks and insurance companies and collateralized loans issued by companies in a variety of industries. On October 6, 2006, Alesco Financial Trust was acquired by Sunset Financial Resources, Inc., which subsequently changed its name to Alesco Financial Inc., or Alesco. Mr. Cohen has entered into an employment agreement with us under which he has agreed to devote only such time to our affairs as is reasonably necessary to perform his duties. We may compete with Alesco for certain investment opportunities. A wholly-owned subsidiary of C & Co. is the manager of Alesco, and members of our management team beneficially own, in the aggregate, less than 5% of Alesco’s outstanding common shares of beneficial interest. While Alesco is prohibited, as an affiliate of C & Co., from engaging in the businesses related to TruPS issued by REITs and real estate operating companies covered by Taberna’s non-competition agreement with C & Co., we and Alesco both intend to invest in residential mortgage loans, RMBS and CMBS, and we may seek to invest in other overlapping investment asset classes in the future. The interests of members of our management in Alesco may create potential conflicts of interest to the extent that we compete with Alesco for investment opportunities in assets other than TruPS issued by REITs and real estate operating companies. Our conflict of interest policies may not successfully eliminate the influence of such conflicts. Under Taberna’s non-competition agreement with C & Co., C & Co. has agreed not to, directly or through controlled entities, compete with us in the business of purchasing TruPS or other preferred equity securities from, or acting as placement agent for, REIT and real estate operating company issuers of TruPS or other preferred equity securities and not to act as collateral manager for securitizations or CDOs involving such securities. This non-competition agreement terminates on the earliest to occur of • any date mutually agreed upon by both parties; • the occurrence of a change of control of Taberna (other than pursuant to Taberna’s merger involving us); • April 28, 2008; or • the date that Daniel G. Cohen’s employment as our chief executive officer is terminated by us without cause. 31 The merger with RAIT constituted a change of control under the non-competition agreement. Accordingly, C & Co. waived its termination right under this agreement as a result of the merger. Nevertheless, to the extent Taberna invests in, acts as placement agent for or acts as collateral manager for securitizations or CDOs involving securities other than TruPS or other preferred equity securities of REITs and real estate operating companies, Taberna may compete with C & Co. or other C & Co. investment entities with similar or overlapping investment or financing strategies and members of Taberna’s management may face conflicts of interest in allocating such opportunities between Taberna, on the one hand, and C & Co. and its affiliates, on the other hand. Other Regulatory and Legal Risks of Our and Taberna’s Business Our reputation, business and operations could be adversely affected by regulatory compliance failures, the potential adverse effect of changes in laws and regulations applicable to our business and effects of negative publicity surrounding the CDO market or real estate industry in general. Potential regulatory action poses a significant risk to our reputation and thereby to our business. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and in the other countries in which our investment activities occur. We operate our business so as to comply with the Internal Revenue Code’s REIT rules and regulations and so as to remain exempt from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. The SEC and the National Association of Securities Dealers, or NASD, oversee the activities of our broker dealer subsidiary. In addition, we are subject to regulation under the Exchange Act, the Investment Advisers Act and various other statutes. A number of our investing activities, such as our lending business, are subject to regulation by various U.S. state regulators. In the United Kingdom, we are subject to regulation by the U.K. Financial Services Authority. If we expand our operations into other countries we will be subject to a variety of regulatory regimes that vary country by country. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of our business, including the authority to grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular businesses. A failure to comply with the obligations imposed by any of the regulations binding on us or to maintain any of the licenses required to be maintained by us could result in investigations, sanctions and reputation damage. The accounting rules applicable to certain of our transactions are highly complex and require the application of significant judgment and assumptions by our management. In addition, changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our financial statements. Accounting rules for transfers of financial assets, hedging transactions, securitization transactions, consolidation of variable interest entities, or VIEs, and other aspects of our operations are highly complex and require the application of judgment and assumptions by management. These complexities could lead to delay in preparation of financial information. In addition, changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our financial statements. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the price of our common shares may be adversely affected. We are required to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations. As a result of our recent merger with Taberna and our commencement of new types of financing activities, evaluating and maintaining effective internal control may be more complex for us than in the past. Our management has excluded Taberna’s operations from its evaluation of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 and does not expect to include it until its evaluation of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting for Taberna’s operations may identify weaknesses or deficiencies that need to be addressed. Any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that needs to be addressed, disclosure of management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, or disclosure of our public accounting 32 firm’s attestation to management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting that reports a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the price of our common shares. In connection with its audit of Taberna’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, Taberna and its independent registered public accounting firm identified deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting that were “material weaknesses” as defined by standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The deficiencies related to Taberna’s and the predecessor entities’ accounting for hedging arrangements and the predecessor entities’ accounting for a tax election made by them prior to the consummation of Taberna’s initial private placement. Taberna has restated the financial statements of its predecessor entities to correct the accounting for the tax election and the hedging matter. We have engaged an unaffiliated firm that specializes in hedging activity to assist in the execution and documentation of our hedging activities; however, we cannot assure you that our internal control over financial reporting will not be subject to material weaknesses in the future. Taberna may become subject to liability and incur increased expenditures as a result of its prior restatement of its unaudited consolidated financial statements. In November 2005 prior to its merger involving us, Taberna determined, following consultation with its independent registered public accounting firm, to correct its accounting policy with respect to the treatment of fees paid to Taberna for services rendered in structuring CDOs that Taberna consolidated as part of its financial statements and, in connection with this correction, to restate its unaudited financial statements for the period from April 28, 2005 through June 30, 2005. Under the corrected accounting policy, Taberna and, after the merger, we eliminate in consolidation both the fees paid to us by consolidated CDO issuers for structuring services and the deferred costs associated with those fees. Prior to this determination, Taberna had made available, to purchasers in its second private placement, which closed in August 2005, and on its website, unaudited financial statements for the period ended June 30, 2005 that included in consolidation these fees and associated deferred costs. The effects of this correction of Taberna’s policy are that we neither recognize CDO structuring fees as revenue nor do we record the associated deferred costs as an asset that would have been amortized as interest expense over the estimated life of the respective consolidated CDO, although Taberna Capital will be subject to income taxes on structuring fees in the year in which the fees are received. The restatement decreased Taberna’s net income for the period ended June 30, 2005 from net income of $0.24 per common share to a net loss of $0.04 per common share, but it did not impact its taxable income. The restatement of Taberna’s previously issued financial statements could expose us to liabilities if we were unable to successfully defend any claims relating to such restatement brought against Taberna. For example, purchasers in Taberna’s second private placement, or qualified institutional buyers that purchased Taberna’s shares in the PORTAL Market®, during the period when Taberna’s prior financial statements were made available on its website, may seek to bring claims against Taberna or us alleging a violation of Rule 10b-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. While we would vigorously defend any claims, defense of such claims could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such claims if any such claims are not resolved in our favor. It is not possible at this time to project whether any claim will be made or the amount of liability, if any, we or Taberna might incur in connection with the restatement. Even if resolved in Taberna’s favor, such claims could cause us or Taberna to incur significant legal and other expenses. Moreover, we or Taberna may be the subject of negative publicity relating to the financial statement inaccuracies and resulting restatement and negative reactions from Taberna’s shareholders at the time, creditors or others with whom Taberna does business. Loss of our Investment Company Act exemption would affect us adversely. We intend to conduct our operations so that we are not an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We relied upon the exemption from registration under Rule 3a-2 for the period from December 31, 2006 until we came into compliance with the 55% test on January 9, 2007. Reliance on Rule 3a-2 33 is permitted only once every three years. If we fail to maintain our exclusion from registration under the Investment Company Act, we might be subject to adverse consequences described in Item 1—“Business—Certain REIT and Investment Company Act Limits on our Strategies—Investment Company Act Limits.” Our ownership limitation may restrict business combination opportunities. To qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of each taxable year. To preserve our REIT qualification, our declaration of trust generally prohibits any person from owning more than 8.3% or, with respect to our original promoter, Resource America, Inc., 15%, of our outstanding common shares and provides that: • A transfer that violates the limitation is void. • A transferee gets no rights to the shares that violate the limitation. • Shares acquired that violate the limitation transfer automatically to a trust whose trustee has all voting and other rights. • Shares in the trust will be sold and the record holder will receive the net proceeds of the sale. The ownership limitation may discourage a takeover or other transaction that our shareholders believe to be desirable. Preferred shares may prevent change in control. Our declaration of trust authorizes our board of trustees to issue preferred shares, to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued, to classify any unissued preferred shares and reclassify any previously classified but unissued preferred shares, without shareholder approval. The issuance of preferred shares could delay or prevent a change in control, apart from the ownership limitation, even if a majority of our shareholders want control to change. Maryland anti-takeover statutes may restrict business combination opportunities. As a Maryland REIT, we are subject to various provisions of Maryland law which impose restrictions and require that specified procedures be followed with respect to the acquisition of “control shares” representing at least ten percent of our aggregate voting power and certain takeover offers and business combinations, including, but not limited to, combinations with persons who own one-tenth or more of our outstanding shares. While we have elected to “opt out” of the control share acquisition statute, our board of trustees has the right to rescind the election at any time without notice to our shareholders. Risks Related to Our Investments We may not realize gains or income from investments and may realize losses. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation. However, our investments may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value, and the financings that we originate and the loans and securities in which we invest may default on interest and/or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains or income from investments and may realize losses. Any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Any income that we realize may not be sufficient to offset our respective expenses. 34 The value of our investments depends on conditions beyond our control. Our investments include loans secured directly or indirectly by real estate, interests in entities whose principal or sole assets are real estate or direct ownership of real estate. As a result, the value of these investments depends primarily upon the value of the real estate underlying these investments which is affected by numerous factors beyond our control including general and local economic conditions, neighborhood values, competitive overbuilding, weather, casualty losses, occupancy rates and other factors beyond our control. The value of this underlying real estate may also be affected by factors such as the costs of compliance with use, occupancy and similar regulations, potential or actual liabilities under applicable environmental laws, changes in interest rates and the availability of financing. Income from a property will be reduced if a significant number of tenants are unable to pay rent or if available space cannot be rented on favorable terms. Operating and other expenses of this underlying real estate, particularly significant expenses such as mortgage payments, insurance, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally do not decrease when income decreases and, even if revenue increases, operating and other expenses may increase faster than revenues. Any investment may also be affected by a borrower’s failure to comply with the terms of our investment, its bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or its properties becoming subject to foreclosure proceedings, all of which may require us to become involved in expensive and time-consuming litigation. Some of our investments defer some portion of our return to loan maturity or the mandatory redemption date. The borrower’s ability to satisfy these deferred obligations may depend upon its ability to obtain suitable refinancing or to otherwise raise a substantial amount of cash. These risks may be subject to the same considerations we describe in this “Risks Related to Our Investments” section. Most of our investments may be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our management and, as a result, there may be uncertainty as to the value of these investments. We expect that most of our investments will be securities or other assets that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We will value these investments quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our management. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these investments existed. If our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments are not realized, we could record a loss upon their disposal. The lack of liquidity in our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. We make investments in securities issued by private companies and other illiquid investments. A portion of these securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises and may impair the value of these investments. A prolonged economic slowdown, a recession or declining real estate values could impair our investments and harm our operating results. Many of our investments may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions, which could lead to financial losses in our respective investments and a decrease in revenue, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. Our investment portfolio may have material geographic, sector and property-type concentrations. We have material geographic concentrations related to investments in residential mortgage loans and RMBS. We have material geographic concentrations related to investments in commercial real estate loans and 35 CMBS. The REITs and real estate operating companies whose securities we invest in may also have material geographic concentrations related to their investments in real estate, loans secured by real estate or other investments. We also have material concentrations in the property types that comprise our commercial loan portfolio and in the industry sectors that comprise our unsecured securities portfolio. Where we have any kind of concentration risk in our investments, an adverse development in that area of concentration could reduce the value of our investment and our return on that investment and, if the concentration affects a material amount of our investments, impair our ability to execute our investment strategies successfully, reduce our earnings and reduce our ability to increase or maintain our current level of distributions. Preferred equity investments in REITs and real estate operating companies may involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing and specific risks relating to particular issuers. We may invest in preferred securities, other than TruPS, of REITs and real estate operating companies, depending upon our ability to finance such assets directly or indirectly in accordance with our financing strategy. Preferred equity investments involve a higher degree of risk than traditional debt financing due to a variety of factors, including that such investments are subordinate to debt and are not secured by property underlying the investment. Furthermore, should an issuer of preferred equity default on our investment, we would only be able to proceed against the issuer, and not the property owned by the issuer. In most cases, a preferred equity holder has no recourse against an issuer for a failure to pay stated dividends; rather, unpaid dividends typically accrue and the preferred shareholder maintains a liquidation preference in the event of a liquidation of the issuer of the preferred securities. An issuer may not have sufficient assets to satisfy any liquidation preference to which we may be entitled. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investments in preferred equity securities. Our and Taberna’s investments in REIT securities involve special risks relating to the particular REIT issuer of the securities, including the qualification of the issuer as a REIT, and the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer. Investments in preferred equity securities of REITs would represent qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests that we and Taberna must meet on a quarterly basis and would generate income which represents qualifying income for purposes of the 75% REIT gross income test that we and Taberna must meet on an annual basis in order to maintain our respective qualification as a REIT, but only if the issuer of those securities is itself a qualified REIT. If the issuer fails to maintain its qualification as a REIT, the securities issued by that issuer will no longer be qualifying real estate assets, and the income will no longer be qualifying income for purposes of the 75% REIT gross income test, in each case for purposes of maintaining our and Taberna’s respective REIT qualification, subjecting our and Taberna’s respective REIT qualification to risk. Our investments in unsecured REIT securities are subject to the risks of investing in subordinated real estate-related securities, which may result in losses to us. REITs generally are required to invest substantially in operating real estate or real estate-related assets and are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate-related investments. Our investments in TruPS and other REIT securities are also subject to the risks described below with respect to mortgage-backed securities and similar risks, including • risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and the resulting risks of loss, • the dependence upon the successful operation of and net income from real property, • risks generally incident to interests in real property, and • risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular property. Unsecured REIT securities are generally subordinated to other obligations of the issuer and are not secured by specific assets of the REIT. Investments in REIT securities are also subject to risks of: • limited liquidity in the secondary trading market, 36 • substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates, • subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer, • the operation of mandatory sinking fund or call/redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest premature redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets, • the possibility that earnings of the REIT issuer may be insufficient to meet its debt service and dividend obligations and • the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer of such REIT securities during periods of rising interest rates and economic downturn. These risks may impair the value of outstanding REIT securities and the ability of the issuers of such securities to repay principal and interest or make dividend payments. Our investments in CDOs and other securitizations are exposed to greater uncertainty and risk of loss than investments in higher grade securities in these CDOs and securitizations. When we securitize assets such as commercial mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, TruPS and residential mortgage loans, the various tranches of investment grade and non-investment grade debt obligations and equity securities have differing priorities and rights to the cash flows of the underlying assets being securitized. We structure our CDOs and other securitization transactions to enable us to place debt and equity securities with investors in the capital markets at various pricing levels based on the credit position created for each tranche of debt and equity securities. The higher rated debt tranches have priority over the lower rated debt securities and the equity securities issued by the particular securitization entity with respect to payments of interest and principal using the cash flows from the collateral assets. The relative cost of capital increases as each tranche of capital becomes further subordinated, as does the associated risk of loss if cash flows from the assets are insufficient to repay fully interest and principal or pay dividends. Since we invest in the “BBB,” “BB,” “B” and unrated debt and equity classes of CDOs and other securitizations, we are in a “first loss” position because the rights of the securities that we hold are subordinate in right of payment and in liquidation to the rights of higher rated debt securities issued by the securitization entities. Accordingly, we may incur significant losses when investing in these securities. These investments bear a greater risk of loss than the senior debt securities that have been sold to third-party investors in each of our CDOs and other securitizations. In the event of default, we may not be able to recover all of our respective investments in these securities. In addition, we may experience significant losses if the underlying portfolio has been overvalued or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest, principal and dividend payments due on the related securities. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than higher rated investments, but are more sensitive to economic downturns or developments specific to a particular issuer. An economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors on the underlying assets to make principal, interest and dividend payments may be impaired. In such an event, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our investments in these securities. Prepayment rates on TruPS, mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities could reduce the value of our investments, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and impair our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. The value of the TruPS, mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, mortgage-backed securities and, possibly, other securities in which we invest may be reduced by prepayment rates. For example, higher than expected prepayment rates will likely result in interest-only securities retained by us in the mortgage loan securitizations 37 and securities that we acquire at a premium to diminish in value. Prepayment rates are influenced by changes in current interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control, and consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty. Borrowers tend to prepay their financings faster when interest rates decline. In these circumstances, we would have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, borrowers tend not to prepay on their financings when interest rates increase. Consequently, we would be unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher prevailing interest rates. This volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our investment portfolio, and may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. The guarantees of principal and interest related to the mortgage-backed securities in which we may invest provided by the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or the Government National Mortgage Association do not protect investors against prepayment risks. The mortgage loans in which we invest and the mortgage loans underlying the mortgage and asset-backed securities in which we invest are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us that may result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We hold substantial amounts of investments in residential mortgage loans. Residential mortgage loans are secured by single-family residential property and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a residential property depends upon the income or assets of the borrower. A number of factors, including a general economic downturn, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances, may impair borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans. Asset-backed securities are bonds or notes backed by loans and/or other financial assets. The ability of a borrower to repay these loans or other financial assets is dependent upon the income or assets of these borrowers. We hold substantial portfolios of commercial mortgage loans and CMBS, which are secured by multi-family or commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically depends primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things: tenant mix, success of tenant businesses, property management decisions, property location and condition, competition from comparable types of properties, changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged, any need to address environmental contamination at the property, the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, declines in regional or local real estate values, declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on its cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. 38 Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process, which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. RMBS evidence interests in or are secured by pools of residential mortgage loans and CMBS evidence interests in or are secured by a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. Accordingly, the mortgage-backed securities in which we invest are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. In addition, residential mortgage borrowers are not typically prevented by the terms of their mortgage loans from prepaying their loans in whole or in part at any time. Borrowers prepay their mortgages for many reasons, but typically, when interest rates decline, borrowers tend to prepay at faster rates. To the extent that the underlying residential mortgage borrowers in any of our mortgage loan pools or the pools underlying any of our mortgage-backed securities prepay their loans, we will likely receive funds that will have to be reinvested, and we may need to reinvest those funds at less desirable rates of return. Although we intend to focus on real estate-related asset-backed securities, there can be no assurance that we will not invest in other types of asset-backed securities to the extent such investments would be consistent with maintaining our qualification, or Taberna’s qualification, as a REIT. Our acquisition of investments denominated or payable in foreign currencies may affect our revenues operating margins and distributions and may also affect the book value of our assets and shareholders’ equity. Our investment strategy involves, and we expect that our investment strategy in the future will involve, acquiring investments denominated or payable in foreign currencies. As a result, changes in the relation of any such foreign currency to the U.S. dollar may affect our revenue, operating margins and distributions and may also affect the book value of each of our and Taberna’s assets and shareholders’ equity. We may engage in direct hedging activities to mitigate the risks of exchange rate fluctuations. If we were to engage in foreign currency exchange rate hedging activities, any income recognized with respect to these hedges (as well as any unhedged foreign currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates) will generally not qualify as eligible income for purposes of either the 75% gross income text or the 95% gross income test that we and Taberna must each satisfy annually in order to qualify as a REIT. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates used to value a REIT’s foreign assets may be considered changes in the value of the REIT’s assets. These changes could cause either or both of us and Taberna to be unable to qualify as a REIT. Further, bank accounts in foreign currencies which are not considered cash or cash equivalents could also cause us or Taberna to be unable to qualify as a REIT. Our international investing strategy will subject us to risks related to adverse political and economic developments, differing laws regarding a lender’s or property owner’s rights and its ability to enforce its rights, availability of financial information conforming to U.S. accounting standards, and the tax treatment of investments, any of which may impair our operations or ability to make distributions. Additionally, foreign real estate investments involve risks not generally associated with investments in the United States. These risks include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, political and economic instability in some geographic locations, potential imposition of adverse or confiscatory taxes, possible challenges to the tax treatment of an investment that could change the treatment from what we expected at the time of investments, possible currency transfer restrictions, expropriation, the difficulty in enforcing obligations in other countries and the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. Each of these risks might impair our performance and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions. In addition, there is typically less publicly available information about foreign companies and a lack of uniform financial accounting standards and practices (including the availability of information in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States) which could impair our ability to analyze transactions and receive the timely and accurate financial information we each need to monitor the performance of our investments and to meet our reporting obligations to financial institutions or regulatory agencies, such as the SEC. 39 We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts like the interest rate swaps we use to limit our exposure to interest rate movements. Most of our derivative contracts require us to fund cash payments upon the early termination of a derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. In addition, some of these derivative arrangements require that we maintain specified percentages of cash collateral with the counterparty to fund potential liabilities under the derivative contract. We may have to make cash payments in order to maintain the required percentage of collateral with the counterparty. These economic losses would be reflected in our results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations would depend on the liquidity of our respective assets and access to capital at the time. The need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. Our due diligence may not reveal all of an entity’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in the entity’s business. Before originating a loan or investment for, or making a loan to or investment in, an entity, we will assess the strength and skills of the entity’s management and other factors that we believe will determine the success of the loan or investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we expect to rely on the available resources and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. As a result, there can be no assurance that the due diligence processes we conduct will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. Longer term, subordinate and non-traditional loans may be illiquid and their value may decrease. Our commercial real estate loans are relatively illiquid investments and we may be unable to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions. As a result, the fair market value of our portfolio may decrease in the future. Our consolidated real estate interests are illiquid and their value may decrease. Consolidated real estate interests are relatively illiquid. Therefore, we may have only a limited ability to vary our portfolio of real estate interests quickly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. As a consequence, the fair market value of some or all of our real estate interests may decrease in the future. Provisions in the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations impose a 100% tax on gains realized by a REIT from property held as a dealer primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. These provisions may limit our ability to sell our real estate interests. For a discussion of federal income tax considerations in selling a real estate interest, you should read—“Tax Risks—Gain on disposition of assets deemed held for sale in ordinary course subject to 100% tax” below. Our subordinated real estate investments such as mezzanine loans and preferred equity interests in entities owning real estate may involve increased risk of loss. We invest in mezzanine loans and other forms of subordinated financing, such as investments consisting of preferred equity interests in entities owning real estate. Because of their subordinate position, these subordinated investments carry a greater credit risk than senior lien financing, including a substantially greater risk of non-payment. If a borrower defaults on our subordinated investment or on debt senior to us, our subordinated investment will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid off, which may result in our being unable to recover the full amount, or any, of our investment. A decline in the real estate market could adversely affect the value of the property so that the aggregate outstanding balances of senior liens may exceed the value of the underlying property. Where debt senior to our investment exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through “standstill” 40 periods) and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Bankruptcy and borrower litigation can significantly increase the time needed for us to acquire underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value. In addition, there are significant costs and delays associated with the foreclosure process. In the event of a default on a senior loan, we may elect to make payments, if we have the right to do so, in order to prevent foreclosure on the senior loans. When we originate or acquire a subordinated investment, we may not have the right to service senior loans. The servicers of the senior loans are responsible to the holders of those loans, whose interests will likely not coincide with ours, particularly in the event of a default. Accordingly, the senior loans may not be serviced in a manner advantageous to us. It is also possible that, in some cases, a “due on sale” clause included in a senior mortgage, which accelerates the amount due under the senior mortgage in case of the sale of the property, may apply to the sale of the property if we foreclose, increasing our risk of loss. We have loans that are not collateralized by recorded or perfected liens on the real estate underlying our loans. Some of the loans not collateralized by liens are secured instead by deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure, also known as “pocket deeds.” A deed-in-lieu of foreclosure is a deed executed in blank that the holder is entitled to record immediately upon a default in the loan. Loans that are not collateralized by recorded or perfected liens are subordinate not only to existing liens encumbering the underlying property, but also to future judgments or other liens that may arise as well as to the claims of general creditors of the borrower. Moreover, filing a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure with respect to these loans will usually constitute an event of default under any related senior debt. Any such default would require us to assume or pay off the senior debt in order to protect our investment. Furthermore, in a borrower’s bankruptcy, we will have materially fewer rights than secured creditors and, if our loan is secured by equity interests in the borrower, fewer rights than the borrower’s general creditors. Our rights also will be subordinate to the lien-like rights of the bankruptcy trustee. Moreover, enforcement of our loans against the underlying properties will involve a longer, more complex, and likely, more expensive legal process than enforcement of a mortgage loan. In addition, we may lose lien priority in many jurisdictions, to persons who supply labor and materials to a property. For these and other reasons, the total amount that we may recover from one of our investments may be less than the total amount of that investment or our cost of an acquisition of an investment. Acquisitions of loans may involve increased risk of loss. When we acquire existing loans, they are subject to general risks described in this section. When we acquire loans at a discount from both the outstanding balances of the loans and the appraised value of the properties underlying the loans; the loans typically are in default under the original loan terms or other requirements and are subject to forbearance agreements. A forbearance agreement typically requires a borrower to pay to the lender all revenue from a property after payment of the property’s operating expenses in return for the lender’s agreement to withhold exercising its rights under the loan documents. Acquiring loans at a discount involves a substantially higher degree of risk of non-collection than loans that conform to institutional underwriting criteria. We do not acquire a loan unless material steps have been taken toward resolving problems with the loan, or its underlying property. However, previously existing problems may recur or other problems may arise. Financing with high loan-to-value ratios may involve increased risk of loss. A loan-to-value ratio is the ratio of the amount of our financing, plus the amount of any senior indebtedness, to the appraised value of the property underlying the loan. Most of our financings have loan-to-value ratios in excess of 80% and many have loan-to-value ratios in excess of 90%. We expect to continue making loans with high loan-to-value ratios. By reducing the margin available to cover fluctuations in property value, a high loan-to-value ratio increases the risk that, upon default, the amount obtainable from the sale of the underlying property may be insufficient to repay the financing. 41 Interest rate changes may reduce the value of our investments. Changes in interest rates affect the market value of our investment portfolio. In general, the market value of a loan will change in inverse relation to an interest rate change where a loan has a fixed interest rate or only limited interest rate adjustments. Accordingly, in a period of rising interest rates, the market value of such a loan will decrease. Moreover, in a period of declining interest rates, real estate loans with rates that are fixed or variable only to a limited extent may have less value than other income-producing securities due to possible prepayments. Interest rate changes will also affect the return we obtain on new loans. In particular, during a period of declining rates, our reinvestment of loan repayments may be at lower rates than we obtained in prior investments or on the repaid loans. Also, increases in interest rates on debt we incur may not be reflected in increased rates of return on the investments funded through such debt, which would reduce our return on those investments. Accordingly, interest rate changes may materially affect the total return on our investment portfolio, which in turn will affect the amount available for distribution to shareholders. We may not obtain appreciation interests at the rate we seek, or at all, and we may not benefit from appreciation interests we do obtain. In addition to an agreed upon interest rate, we occasionally obtain appreciation interests from our borrowers. Appreciation interests require a borrower to pay us a percentage of the property’s excess cash flow from operations, or of the net proceeds resulting from the property’s sale or refinance. The appreciation interests we have historically obtained have ranged from 5-30%. However, in the future we may not be able to obtain appreciation interests in this range or at all. In addition, while we have sought to structure the interest rates on our existing loans to maximize our current yield, we may in the future accept a lower interest rate to obtain an appreciation interest. The value of any appreciation interest depends on the performance and value of the property underlying the loan and, thus, is subject to real estate investment risks. Accordingly, we may not realize any benefits from our appreciation interests. Appreciation interests may cause us to lose our lien priority. Because appreciation interests allow us to participate in the increase in a property’s value or revenue, courts, including a court in a borrower’s bankruptcy, arrangement or similar proceeding, could determine that we should be treated as a partner of, or joint venturer with, the borrower. If a court makes that determination, we could lose our lien priority in the property or lose any benefit of our lien. Usury statutes may impose interest ceilings and substantial penalties for violations. Interest we charge on our loans, which may include amounts received from appreciation interests, may be subject to state usury laws. These laws impose maximum interest rates that may be charged on loans and penalties for violation, including repayment of excess interest and unenforceability of debt. We seek to structure our loans so that we do not violate applicable usury laws, but uncertainties in determining the legality of interest rates and other borrowing charges under some statutes may result in inadvertent violations. Lease expirations, lease defaults and lease terminations may adversely affect our revenue. Lease expirations, lease defaults and lease terminations may result in reduced revenue from our real estate interests if the lease payments received from replacement tenants are less than the lease payments received from the expiring, defaulting or terminating tenants. In addition, lease defaults by one or more significant tenants, lease terminations by tenants following events causing significant damage to the property or takings by eminent domain, or the failure of tenants under expiring leases to elect to renew their leases, could cause us to experience long periods with reduced or no revenue from a facility and to incur substantial capital expenditures in order to obtain replacement tenants. 42 We may need to make significant capital improvements to our properties in order to remain competitive. The properties underlying our consolidated real estate interests may face competition from newer, more updated properties. In order to remain competitive, we may need to make significant capital improvements to these properties. In addition, in the event we need to re-lease a property, we may need to make significant tenant improvements. The costs of these improvements could impair our financial performance. Uninsured and underinsured losses may affect the value of, or our return from, our real estate interests. Our properties, and the properties underlying our loans, have comprehensive insurance in amounts we believe are sufficient to permit the replacement of the properties in the event of a total loss, subject to applicable deductibles. There are, however, certain types of losses, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and terrorism that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Also, inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might make it impractical to use insurance proceeds to replace a damaged or destroyed property. If any of these or similar events occurs, it may reduce our return from an affected property and the value of our investment. Real estate with environmental problems may create liability for us. The existence of hazardous or toxic substances on a property will adversely affect its value and our ability to sell or borrow against the property. Contamination of real estate by hazardous substances or toxic wastes not only may give rise to a lien on that property to assure payment of the cost of remediation, but also can result in liability to us as owner, operator or lender for that cost. Many environmental laws can impose liability whether we know of, or are responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses, and may materially limit our use of our properties and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, future or amended laws, or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing environmental requirements, may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Compliance with Americans with Disabilities Act may reduce our ability to make distributions. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements for access and use by disabled persons. It is possible that real estate underlying one of our loans could be found not to fully comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act. We cannot assure you that real properties underlying our other investments will not in the future be deemed to the Americans with Disabilities Act. Failure to comply could result in fines as well as liabilities for damages to private parties. This could reduce the revenue from that real estate that otherwise would be available to our borrower to pay interest on our loans or reduce the income to us from our interest in that real estate. As a result, if we or our borrowers were required to make unanticipated major modifications to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the resulting expense could reduce our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Concentration of our investments increases our dependence on individual investments. Our organizational documents do not limit the size of our investments. If we make larger investments relative to the size of our investment portfolio, our portfolio will be concentrated in a smaller number of assets, increasing the risk of loss to shareholders if a default or other problem arises with respect to any one investment. If we make material investments in any single borrower or group of affiliated borrowers, the failure of that borrower or group to perform their obligations to us could increase the risk of loss to our shareholders. 43 Adverse developments in any arrangement with a third party that was the source of a material amount of our investments could adversely impact our growth. Our growth depends on our ability to continue generating attractive investment opportunities. We have initiated numerous arrangements with third parties intended to increase our sources for originating investments in TruPS and real estate. If any arrangement with a particular third party, whether through these programs or otherwise, becomes the source of a large percentage of our investments, any adverse developments in such an arrangement could impair our growth. Failure of arrangements with third parties could reduce our ability to originate assets. Quarterly results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore, you should not rely on past quarterly results to be indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among others, variations in our investment origination volume, variations in the timing of repayments, variations in the amount of time between our receipt of the proceeds of a securities offering and our investment of those proceeds in loans or real estate interests, market conditions that result in increased cost of funds, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. Our board of trustees may change our policies without shareholder consent. Our board of trustees determines our policies and, in particular, our investment policies. Our board of trustees may amend our policies or approve transactions that deviate from these policies without a vote of or notice to our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market price of our shares and our ability to make distributions. Our board of trustees cannot take any action to disqualify us as a REIT or to otherwise revoke our election to be taxed as a REIT without the approval of a majority of our outstanding voting shares. Tax Risks We or Taberna may fail to qualify as a REIT, and such failure to qualify would have significant adverse consequences on the value of our common shares. In addition, if we or Taberna fail to qualify as a REIT, such entity’s dividends will not be deductible, and the entity will be subject to corporate-level tax on its net taxable income, which would reduce the cash available to make distributions. We and Taberna believe that each of us has been organized and operated in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT. Neither we nor Taberna has requested or plan to request a ruling from the IRS that we qualify as a REIT and any statements in our or Taberna’s filings with the SEC are not binding on the IRS or any court. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our or Taberna’s control may also affect our respective abilities to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we and Taberna must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the composition of our respective assets and sources of our respective gross income. Also, we and Taberna must make distributions to our respective shareholders (in Taberna’s case, principally us) aggregating annually at least 90% of our respective net taxable incomes, excluding net capital gains. In addition, our and Taberna’s ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we and Taberna have no control or limited influence, including in cases where we and Taberna own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership or REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As an example, to the extent we invest in preferred equity securities of other REIT issuers, our qualification as a REIT will depend upon the continued qualification of such issuers as REITs under the Internal Revenue Code. Accordingly, unlike other REITs, we may be subject to additional risk regarding our ability to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT. There can be no assurance that we or Taberna will be successful in operating in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our and Taberna’s investors, our and Taberna’s ability to qualify as a REIT or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. 44 If Taberna fails to qualify as a REIT, then we also would very likely fail to qualify as a REIT, because Taberna common and preferred shares make up a significant portion of our total assets and because we will likely receive substantial dividend income from Taberna. If we or Taberna fail to qualify as a REIT or lose our qualification as a REIT at any time, we or it will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to its shareholders (in the case of Taberna, primarily us) for each of the years involved because: • we or Taberna would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our respective shareholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we or Taberna also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless statutory relief provisions apply, we or Taberna could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year of disqualification. In addition, if we or Taberna fail to qualify as a REIT, such entity will not be required to make distributions to its shareholders (in the case of Taberna, primarily us), and all distributions to shareholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits. Moreover, if we or Taberna fail to qualify as a REIT, any taxable mortgage pool securitizations will be treated as separate taxable corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us or Taberna to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT, we and Taberna must continually satisfy various tests regarding sources of income, nature and diversification of assets, amounts distributed to shareholders and the ownership of common shares. In order to satisfy these tests, we and Taberna may be required to forgo investments that might otherwise be made. Accordingly, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our or Taberna’s investment performance. In particular, at least 75% of each of our and Taberna’s total assets at the end of each calendar quarter must consist of real estate assets, government securities, and cash or cash items. For this purpose, “real estate assets” generally include interests in real property, such as land, buildings, leasehold interests in real property, stock of other entities that qualify as REITs, interests in mortgage loans secured by real property, investments in stock or debt instruments during the one-year period following the receipt of new capital and regular or residual interests in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC. In addition, the amount of securities of a single issuer that each of we and Taberna hold must generally not exceed either 5% of the value of such issuer’s gross assets or 10% of the vote or value of such issuer’s outstanding securities. Certain of the assets that we or Taberna hold or intend to hold, including TruPS and unsecured loans to REITs or other entities, will not be qualified real estate assets for the purposes of the REIT asset tests. In addition, although preferred equity securities of REITs (which would not include TruPS) should generally be treated as qualified real estate assets, this will require that (i) they are treated as equity for U.S. tax purposes, and (ii) their issuers maintain their qualification as REITs. CMBS and RMBS securities should generally qualify as real estate assets. However, to the extent that we or Taberna own non-REMIC collateralized mortgage obligations or other debt instruments secured by mortgage loans (rather than by real property) or secured by non-real estate assets, or debt securities issued by corporations that are not secured by mortgages on real property, those securities will likely not be qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests. We or Taberna generally will be treated as the owner of any assets that collateralize a securitization transaction to the extent that we or Taberna retain all of the equity of the securitization entity and do not make an election to treat such securitization entity as a TRS, as described in further detail below. 45 As noted above, in order to comply with the REIT asset tests and 75% gross income test, at least 75% of each of our and Taberna’s total assets and 75% of gross income must be derived from qualifying real estate assets, whether or not such assets would otherwise represent our or Taberna’s best investment alternative. For example, since neither TruPS nor equity in corporate entities that hold TruPS, such as CDOs, will be qualifying real estate assets, Taberna (and we, to the extent that we invest in such assets) must hold substantial investments in qualifying real estate assets, including mortgage loans and CMBS and RMBS securities, which typically have lower yields than TruPS. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including any mortgage loans, held in inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The prohibited transaction tax may apply to any sale of assets to a CDO and to any sale of CDO securities, and therefore may limit our and Taberna’s ability to sell assets to or equity in CDOs and other assets. It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax and the holding of assets not qualifying as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests by conducting certain activities, holding non-qualifying REIT assets or engaging in CDO transactions through our or Taberna’s TRSs, subject to certain limitations as described below. To the extent that we or Taberna engage in such activities through TRSs, the income associated with such activities may be subject to full U.S. federal corporate income tax. Neither TruPS nor equity in corporate entities, such as issuers of CDOs that hold TruPS, will qualify as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and the income generated by such investments generally will not qualify as real estate-related income for the REIT gross income tests. We and Taberna must continue to invest in qualifying real estate assets, such as mortgage loans and debt securities secured by real estate, to maintain its REIT qualification, and these assets typically generate less attractive returns than TruPS which could result in reduced returns to Taberna, and therefore to our shareholders. Neither TruPS nor equity in corporate entities, such as issuers of CDOs, that hold TruPS will qualify as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests that Taberna must meet on a quarterly basis to maintain its qualification as a REIT. We use the term “CDOs” to refer to either the issuer of CDOs or the CDOs themselves, where the context makes the reference clear. The income received from Taberna’s investments in TruPS or in corporate entities holding TruPS generally will not qualify as real estate-related income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. Accordingly, Taberna will be limited in its ability to originate TruPS or maintain its investments in TruPS or entities created to hold TruPS if Taberna does not invest in sufficient qualifying real estate assets. Taberna will continue to originate and invest in TruPS and in REIT-eligible assets, such as mortgage loans, residential mortgage-backed securities, or RMBS, and commercial mortgage-backed securities, or CMBS. If Taberna fails to make sufficient investments in qualifying real estate assets, Taberna will likely fail to maintain its REIT qualification, which could cause Taberna to be subject to significant taxes and RAIT to fail to maintain its REIT qualification and be subject to significant taxes. REIT qualifying investments typically are lower yielding than Taberna’s expected returns on TruPS. Accordingly, maintaining sufficient amounts of REIT qualifying investments could result in reduced returns to Taberna, and therefore to our shareholders. Furthermore, if income inclusions from Taberna’s foreign taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs, which are CDOs are determined not to qualify for the REIT 95% gross income test, Taberna could fail to qualify as a REIT, or even if it did not fail to qualify as a REIT, Taberna could be subject to a penalty tax. In addition, Taberna would need to invest in sufficient qualifying assets, or sell some of its interests in its foreign TRSs which are CDOs to ensure that the income recognized by Taberna from its foreign TRSs which are CDOs does not exceed 5% of Taberna’s gross income. See “We or Taberna may lose our or its REIT qualification or be subject to a penalty tax if the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, successfully challenges our or its characterization of income from our or its foreign TRSs which are CDOs.” Any reduction in Taberna’s net taxable income would have an adverse effect on its liquidity, and its ability to pay distributions to us. 46 Each of our and Taberna’s qualifications as a REIT and exemption from U.S. federal income tax with respect to certain assets may be dependent on the issuers of the REIT securities in which we and Taberna invest maintaining their REIT qualification and the accuracy of legal opinions rendered to or statements made by the issuers of securities, including CDOs, in which we and Taberna invest. When purchasing securities issued by REITs, we and Taberna may rely on opinions of counsel for the issuer of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents, for purposes of determining whether such issuer qualifies as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes and whether such securities represent debt or equity securities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and therefore to what extent those securities constitute REIT real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produce income which qualifies under the 75% REIT gross income test. In addition, when purchasing CDO equity, we and Taberna may rely on opinions of counsel regarding the qualification of the CDO for exemption from U.S. corporate income tax. The inaccuracy of any such opinions or statements may adversely affect our or Taberna’s REIT qualification and/or result in significant corporate-level tax. In addition, if the issuer of any REIT equity securities in which we or Taberna invest were to fail to maintain its qualification as a REIT, the securities of such issuer held by us or Taberna will fail to qualify as real estate assets for purposes of maintaining REIT qualification and the income generated by such securities will not represent qualifying income for purposes of the 75% REIT gross income test and therefore could cause us or Taberna to fail to qualify as a REIT. We and Taberna own interests in “taxable mortgage pools,” which may subject us to U.S. federal income tax, increase the tax liability of our shareholders and limit the manner in which we and Taberna effect securitizations. We and Taberna have entered, and will likely continue to enter into transactions that result in us or Taberna or a portion of our or Taberna’s assets being treated as a “taxable mortgage pool” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Specifically, we securitized a portfolio of loans other real estate assets that we had originated and will likely do so in the future, and Taberna have securitized portfolios of mortgage loans and will likely in the future securitize RMBS or CMBS assets that Taberna acquires and such securitizations will result in Taberna owning interests in a taxable mortgage pool. We and Taberna have entered, and expect to continue to enter into such transactions at the REIT level. To the extent that all or a portion of us or Taberna is treated as a taxable mortgage pool, or we or Taberna make investments or enter into financing and securitization transactions that give rise to us or Taberna being considered to own an interest in one or more taxable mortgage pools, a portion of net taxable income may be characterized as “excess inclusion income” and allocated to Taberna’s shareholders or our shareholders, generally in the same manner as if the taxable mortgage pool were a REMIC. Excess inclusion income is an amount, with respect to any calendar quarter, equal to the excess, if any, of (i) income allocable to the holder of a residual interest in a REMIC, during such calendar quarter over (ii) the sum of amounts allocated to each day in the calendar quarter equal to its ratable portion of the product of (a) the adjusted issue price of the interest at the beginning of the quarter multiplied by (b) 120% of the long-term federal tax rate (determined on the basis of compounding at the close of each calendar quarter and properly adjusted for the length of such quarter). The U.S. Treasury Department has issued guidance on the tax treatment of shareholders of a REIT that owns an interest in a taxable mortgage pool. Shareholders should be aware that we and Taberna expect to engage in transactions that will likely result in a significant portion of Taberna’s dividend income to us, and of our income from any taxable mortgage pool in which we own interests, being considered excess inclusion income. We are taxed at the highest corporate income tax rate on the excess inclusion income arising from a taxable mortgage pool that is allocable to the percentage of our shares held by “disqualified organizations,” which are generally certain cooperatives, governmental entities and tax-exempt organizations that are exempt from tax on unrelated business taxable income, or UBTI, under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. We believe that disqualified organizations own and will continue to own our shares. Because this tax would be imposed on us, all of our shareholders, including shareholders that are not disqualified organizations, would bear a portion of the tax cost associated with the classification of us or Taberna or a portion of our or its assets as a taxable mortgage pool. 47 If a shareholder is a tax-exempt entity and not a disqualified organization, then this excess inclusion income would be fully taxable as UBTI. If a shareholder is a foreign person, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this income without reduction or exemption pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. If the shareholder is a REIT, regulated investment company (“RIC”), common trust fund or other pass-through entity, its allocable share of excess inclusion income would be considered excess inclusion income of such entity and such entity will be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to its owners that are disqualified organizations. In addition, to the extent Taberna or RAIT realizes excess inclusion income and allocates it to shareholders, this income cannot be offset by net operating losses of its shareholders. Moreover, if we or Taberna sell equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool securitization (or debt securities that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes), such securitization would be treated as a separate corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and would potentially be subject to corporate income tax. In addition, this characterization would alter our or Taberna’s REIT income and asset test calculations and would adversely affect compliance with those requirements. The tax consequences of such a characterization could effectively prevent us or Taberna from using certain techniques to maximize returns from securitization transactions. Finally, if we or Taberna fail to qualify as a REIT, these taxable mortgage pool securitizations will be treated as separate taxable corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We or Taberna may lose our or its REIT qualification or be subject to a penalty tax if the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, successfully challenges our or its characterization of income from foreign TRSs which are CDOs. We and Taberna are required to include in income, in certain cases, even without the receipt of actual distributions, earnings from foreign TRSs which are CDOs or other foreign corporations that are not qualified REIT subsidiaries. Taberna treats, and we intend to treat, certain of these income inclusions as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test applicable to REITs but not for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test. The provisions that set forth what income is qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test provide that gross income derived from dividends, interest and certain other classes of passive income qualify for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Income inclusions from equity investments in our and Taberna’s foreign TRSs are technically neither dividends nor any of the other enumerated categories of income specified in the 95% gross income test for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and there is no clear precedent with respect to the qualification of such income. However, based on advice of counsel, we and Taberna intend to treat such inclusions, to the extent distributed by a foreign TRS in the year it was accrued, as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Nevertheless, because this income does not meet the literal requirements of the REIT provisions, the IRS might take the position that such income is not qualifying income. In the event that such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we or Taberna could fail to qualify as a REIT. Even if such income does not cause us or Taberna to fail to qualify as a REIT because of certain relief provisions, we or Taberna would be subject to a penalty tax with respect to such income because such income, together with other non-qualifying income earned by us or Taberna, has exceeded and will exceed 5% of its gross income. This penalty tax, if applicable, would be calculated by multiplying the amount by which our or Taberna’s non-qualifying income exceeds 5% of our or Taberna’s total gross income by a fraction intended to reflect our or Taberna’s profitability. Based upon our and Taberna’s current estimates of sources of income and profitability for 2006, the estimated potential amount of such tax is approximately $6.0 million. Such amount is based on current estimates and actual amounts, if any, will depend upon our and Taberna’s investments, sources of income and profitability in any particular year. In addition, if such income were determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we or Taberna would need to invest in sufficient qualifying assets, or sell some interests in foreign TRSs which are CDOs or other foreign corporations that are not qualified REIT subsidiaries to ensure that the income recognized by us or Taberna from foreign TRSs which are CDOs or such other foreign corporations does not exceed 5% of our or Taberna’s gross income. 48 Taberna’s other foreign TRSs, Taberna Bermuda and Taberna Securities UK, intend to operate in a manner so that their earnings will not be required to be included in Taberna’s income until such earnings are actually distributed by such foreign TRSs. In the event the IRS were to successfully challenge such characterization of the operations of Taberna Bermuda or Taberna Securities UK, and Taberna is required to recognize income earned by Taberna Bermuda or Taberna Securities UK on a current basis or otherwise recognize additional income with respect to such TRSs, Taberna could fail to qualify as a REIT or be subject to the penalty tax described above. The failure of a loan subject to a repurchase agreement to qualify as a real estate asset could adversely affect our or Taberna’s ability to qualify as a REIT. We and Taberna have each entered into and intend to enter into, sale and repurchase agreements under which we or Taberna nominally sell certain mortgage assets to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. We and Taberna believe that we and it will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as the owners of the mortgage assets that are the subject of any such agreement notwithstanding that we or it may transfer record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that we or Taberna did not own the mortgage assets during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case our or Taberna’s ability to qualify as a REIT would be adversely affected. We and Taberna will pay taxes. Even if we and Taberna qualify as REITs for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and Taberna will be required to pay U.S. federal, state and local taxes on income and property. In addition, our and Taberna’s domestic TRSs are fully taxable corporations that will be subject to taxes on their income, and they may be limited in their ability to deduct interest payments made to us and Taberna. We and Taberna also will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain amounts if the economic arrangements among us and Taberna and TRSs are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties or if we or Taberna receives payments for inventory or property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We may be taxable at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of the income arising from a taxable mortgage pool that is allocable to shares held by “disqualified organizations.” In addition, under certain circumstances we or Taberna could be subject to a penalty tax for failure to meet certain REIT requirements but nonetheless maintains its qualification as a REIT. For example, we or Taberna may be required to pay a penalty tax with respect to income earned in connection with CDO equity in the event such income is determined not to be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 95% gross income test but we or Taberna are otherwise able to remain qualified as a REIT. To the extent that we or Taberna or the TRSs are required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, we or Taberna will have less to distribute to shareholders. Failure to make required distributions would subject us or Taberna to tax, which would reduce the ability to pay distributions to our and its shareholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, we and Taberna must distribute to our and its shareholders each calendar year at least 90% of REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we or Taberna satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of net taxable income, we or Taberna will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax. In addition, we or Taberna will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our or its distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85% of ordinary income for that year; • 95% of capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% undistributed taxable income from prior years. We and Taberna intend to distribute our and its net income to our and its shareholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible 49 excise tax. There is no requirement that Taberna’s domestic TRSs, such as Taberna Capital, Taberna Securities and Taberna Funding, distribute their after-tax net income to Taberna and such TRSs may, to the extent consistent with maintaining Taberna’s qualification as a REIT, determine not to make any current distributions to Taberna. However, Taberna’s non-U.S. TRSs, such as Taberna Equity Funding, Ltd., and Taberna’s consolidated CDO subsidiaries (but not Taberna Bermuda or Taberna Securities UK), will generally be deemed to distribute their earnings to Taberna on an annual basis for U.S. federal income tax purposes, regardless of whether such TRSs actually distribute their earnings. Our or Taberna’s taxable income may substantially exceed its net income as determined by GAAP because, for example, expected capital losses will be deducted in determining its GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing its taxable income. In addition, we or Taberna may invest in assets including the equity of CDO entities that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as phantom income. This “phantom income” may arise for us in the following ways: • Origination of loans with appreciation interests may be deemed to have original issue discount for federal income tax purposes. Original issue discount is generally equal to the difference between an obligation’s issue price and its stated redemption price at maturity. This “discount” must be recognized as income over the life of the loan even though the corresponding cash will not be received until maturity. • Our loan terms may provide for both an interest “pay” rate and “accrual” rate. When this occurs, we recognize interest based on the sum of the pay rate and the accrual rate, but only receive cash at the pay rate until maturity of the loan, at which time all accrued interest is due and payable. • Our loans or unconsolidated real estate interests may contain provisions whereby the benefit of any principal amortization of the underlying senior debt inures to us. We recognize this benefit as income as the amortization occurs, with no related cash receipts until repayment of our loan. • Sales or other dispositions of consolidated real estate interests, as well as significant modifications to loan terms may result in timing differences between income recognition and cash receipts. Although some types of phantom income are excluded to the extent they exceed 5% of our or Taberna’s net income in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we or Taberna will incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we or Taberna do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we or Taberna may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we or Taberna may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we or it regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid U.S. federal corporate income tax and the 4% deductible excise tax in that year. If our or Taberna’s CDOs or Taberna’s subsidiaries, Taberna Bermuda or Taberna Securities UK, are subject to U.S. federal income tax at the entity level, it would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us or Taberna and pay their creditors. Taberna’s consolidated CDO subsidiaries are organized as Cayman Islands companies, and we may own similar foreign CDO’s in the future. There is a specific exemption from U.S. federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We and Taberna intend that the consolidated CDO subsidiaries and any other non-U.S. CDOs that are TRSs will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. Taberna Bermuda is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Taberna organized under the laws of Bermuda that provides subadvisory services to Taberna Capital and receives a fee from Taberna Capital for its services. Taberna Securities UK is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Taberna organized under the laws 50 of the United Kingdom that is expected to originate securities and to receive origination fees from issuers in connection with its origination activities. Taberna Bermuda and Taberna Securities UK intend to operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their net income. If the IRS were to succeed in challenging the tax treatment of our or Taberna’s CDOs, Taberna Bermuda or Taberna Securities UK, it could greatly reduce the amount that those CDOs, Taberna Bermuda and Taberna Securities UK would have available to distribute to their shareholders and to pay to their creditors. Any reduced distributions would reduce amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. Our and Taberna’s ownership of and relationship with TRSs will be limited, and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our and its REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Taberna Capital, Taberna Securities, Taberna Funding and any domestic TRSs that we own or that we or Taberna acquire in the future will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution but will not be required to be distributed. The value of the securities that we or Taberna hold in TRSs may not be subject to precise valuation. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we or Taberna will be able to comply with the 20% limitation discussed above or avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. Compliance with REIT requirements may limit our and Taberna’s ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code limit our and Taberna’s ability to hedge mortgage-backed securities, preferred securities and related borrowings. Except to the extent provided by the regulations promulgated by the U.S. Treasury Department, or the Treasury regulations, any income from a hedging transaction we or Taberna enter into in the normal course of business primarily to manage risk of interest rate or price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made, or ordinary obligations incurred or to be incurred, to acquire or carry real estate assets, which is clearly identified as specified in the Treasury regulations before the close of the day on which it was acquired, originated, or entered into, including gain from the sale or disposition of such a transaction, will not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (and will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test). To the extent that we or Taberna enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result, we or Taberna might have to limit use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through TRSs. This could increase the cost of our or Taberna’s hedging activities or expose it or us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we or it would otherwise want to bear. Taberna and RAIT may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common shares. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and 51 any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. Taberna and RAIT could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. Origination fees we receive will not be REIT qualifying income. We must satisfy two gross income tests annually to maintain qualification as a REIT. First, at least 75% of our gross income for each taxable year must consist of defined types of income that we derive, directly or indirectly, from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property or temporary investment income. Qualifying income for purposes of that 75% gross income test generally includes: • rents from real property, • interest on debt secured by mortgages on real property or on interests in real property, and • dividends or other distributions on and gain from the sale of shares in other REITs. Second, in general, at least 95% of our gross income for each taxable year must consist of income that is qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, dividends, other types of interest, gain from the sale or disposition of stock or securities, income from certain interest rate hedging contracts, or any combination of the foregoing. Gross income from any origination fees we obtain or from our sale of property that we hold primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is excluded from both income tests. Any origination fees we receive will not be qualifying income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests applicable to REITs under the Internal Revenue Code. We typically receive initial payments, or “points,” from borrowers as commitment fees or additional interest. So long as the payment is for the use of money, rather than for other services provided by us, we believe that this income should not be classified as non-qualifying origination fees. However, the Internal Revenue Service may seek to reclassify this income as origination fees instead of commitment fees or interest. If we cannot satisfy the Internal Revenue Code’s income tests as a result of a successful challenge of our classification of this income, we may not qualify as a REIT. Income from certain loans may not be REIT qualifying income. We have purchased and originated loans that are only indirectly secured by real property and may do so in the future. If a senior loan prevents us from recording a mortgage against the property, the junior note held by us may be collateralized by an unrecorded mortgage, a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, a pledge of equity interests of the borrower, a purchase option or some other arrangement. In these situations, the Internal Revenue Service may conclude that interest on our loans does not constitute interest from obligations “secured by mortgages on real property or on interests in real property.” As a result, interest from these sources would not qualify for purposes of the 75% gross income test described above. Gain on disposition of assets deemed held for sale in ordinary course subject to 100% tax. If we sell any of our assets, the Internal Revenue Service may determine that the sale is a disposition of an asset held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. Gain from this kind of sale generally will be subject to a 100% tax. Whether an asset is held “primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business” depends on the particular facts and circumstances of the sale. Although we will attempt to comply with the terms of safe-harbor provisions in the Internal Revenue Code prescribing when asset sales will not be so characterized, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. A portion of the dividends we distribute may be deemed a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. The amount of dividends we distribute to our common shareholders in a given quarter may not correspond to our taxable income for such quarter. Consequently, a portion of the dividends we distribute may be deemed a return of capital for federal income tax purposes, and will not be taxable but will reduce shareholders’ basis in the underlying common shares. 52 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 