ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a substantial degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should give careful consideration to the following risk factors in addition to the other risks and information described in this report. The following risk factors, however, do not reflect all of the risks associated with our business or an investment in our common stock. The trading price of our common stock could decline significantly due to any of these risks and investors may lose all or part of their investments. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year that ended on September 30, 2012 and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business Our management, personnel, strategic partners, and products and services are new. Our management team, many of our business and strategic partners, and a large majority of our personnel are new to our company. On July 15, 2011, we discontinued all sales of our prior principal product line, InstantProfile, while we commenced an evaluation of our sales program, products, distribution methods and vendor programs. In December 2011, we sold a controlling interest in our company to an unaffiliated group of new investors. In January 2012, our board appointed Jon Isaac, who is the owner of one of the December 2011 investors in our company, as President and CEO. Since that time, the company has hired a new management team, implemented a new company strategy, designed new products and services around that strategy, and hired new personnel and formed new business relationships to implement that strategy. The products and services we are currently offering, as well as our current marketing practices, are new and are still being developed and tested for market acceptance, which cannot be assured. Our management team is in the process of actively evaluating and attempting to improve our marketing efforts and our product and service offerings, as well as contracting with new partners and hiring and training personnel for management, sales and fulfillment. Any new product offering is subject to certain risks, including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, challenges relating to economies of scale and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including management and designers. Many of our contracts with third party vendors, including our strategic partnerships, permit our partners to terminate the contract, with short or no prior notice, for convenience, as well as for default in the event we fail to meet our contractual obligations. The development of new products involves considerable costs and any new product may not generate sufficient consumer interest and sales to become a profitable brand or to cover the costs of its development and subsequent promotions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and grow our current offerings, or any other new offerings, to a point where they will become profitable, or generate positive cash flow. We may modify or terminate our current product and services offerings if our management determines that they are not yielding or will not yield desired results. Our product introductions and improvements, along with our other marketplace initiatives, are designed to capitalize on customer demands and trends. In order to be successful, we must anticipate and react to changes in these demands and trends, and to modify existing products or develop new products or processes to address them. Uncertainty in the market for our products and services. Our current product and service offerings are new, and the demand and market acceptance for these products and services is uncertain. Potential customers may not subscribe to our current offerings or other online marketing products and services that we may offer in the future. Customers we acquire may not continue to use our products and services or other online marketing products and services that we may offer in the future, including because they find these products and services to be too costly, ineffective or less effective for meeting their business needs than other methods of advertising and marketing. Our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations will be materially and adversely affected if we do not execute our strategy or our products and services are not adopted by a sufficient number of customers. 9 We will incur operating losses and significant volatility in operations while we develop our new business offerings. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, we incurred substantial operating losses as we transitioned our business toward our new strategic focus. We will continue to incur operating losses as we develop new business products which will be financed through existing cash on hand plus potential additional debt or equity financings. While we believe our existing cash on hand, together with additional cash generated from operations or obtained from other sources, such as stock issuances, loans or other forms of financing secured by or leveraged off our accounts receivable based on existing programs in place that are being offered to companies similar to ours, is sufficient to finance our operations (including working capital and needed capital expenditures) for the next twelve months, there can be no assurance that we will achieve profitability or positive operating cash flows. To the extent that we cannot achieve profitability or positive operating cash flows, our business will be adversely affected. Further, our new business lines are likely to experience significant volatility in their respective revenues, operating results, personnel, products or services for sale, and other business parameters, as management implements its strategies and responds to operating results. We have historically incurred losses and expect to incur losses in the future, which may impact our ability to implement our business strategies and adversely affect our financial condition. We have a history of losses. We had a net loss of $1.6 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, and $5.5 million for the year ended September 30, 2011. While we have significantly reduced our operating expenses by reviewing all expenses and improving operating efficiencies, we may not be able to reduce or maintain our expenses in response to any decrease in our revenues, which may impact our ability to implement our new business strategies and would adversely affect our financial condition. We are losing our LEC billing channels. We have historically billed a significant amount of our legacy business revenues through LEC billing channels. The largest LEC billing companies have issued a notice to all clearinghouses that they will cease billing for third parties as of December 28, 2012. We anticipate that the three remaining LEC billing companies will also cease processing for third parties as of the end of 2012. If we are not able to obtain alternative billing methods for these customers, the number of customers and our revenues will decline, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. If we fail to maintain the number of customers purchasing our monthly subscription products, our revenue and our business could be harmed. Our monthly subscription customers do not have long-term obligations to purchase our products or services and many cancel their subscriptions each month. As a result of customer churn, we must continually add new monthly subscription customers to replace customers who cancelled and to grow our business beyond our current customer base. In addition, as the result of the discontinuation of LEC billing services in or before December 2012 noted above, we anticipate that we will lose a material number of subscribers. If we do not add sufficient new subscribers to compensate for these lost subscribers, our operating results and our financial performance may be materially and adversely affected. Our senior management lacks substantial experience implementing our business strategy and most of our personnel has been recently hired. Our senior management’s track record and achievements in their respective prior endeavors are not necessarily indicative of future results that will be achieved by them on our behalf. Our senior management’s skills, experience and expertise may not be as well suited to our current objectives, strategies and requirements as they were in their respective prior businesses. In particular, our most senior management is relatively inexperienced in marketing services to SMBs and in providing online marketing services, and our products and services, marketing strategy, operating environment and regulatory limitations differ markedly from the other businesses which our senior management has managed and operated. In addition, the great majority of our personnel, including our management, has been hired relatively recently, and there can be no assurance that they will be able to work together effectively or provide the necessary level of services to succeed in implementing our current business strategies. 10 We face intense competition, including from companies with greater resources, which could adversely affect our growth and could lead to decreased revenues. Content marketing and other online marketing services are emerging fields with a considerable amount of competitors in each field. Major internet companies, including Google, Microsoft, Verizon, AT&T and Yahoo!, currently market internet Yellow Pages, local search services and other products that directly compete with our legacy business as well as our new product offerings and major deal companies, like Groupon and Living Social, currently market daily deals that directly compete with our promotional marketing business. Other existing and potential competitors include website design and development service and software companies; internet service providers and application service providers; internet search engine providers; domain registrars; website hosting providers; local business directory providers; and ecommerce platform and service providers. We may not compete effectively with existing and potential competitors for several reasons, including the following: ·some competitors have longer operating histories, larger and more established subscriber bases, and greater financial and other resources than we have and are in better financial condition than we are, enabling them to engage in more extensive research and development, more aggressive pricing policies, and more advertising and other promotional activities that will enhance their brand name recognition and increase their market share; ·some competitors may release free tools, including open source tools, which perform some or many of the services we offer to our customers; ·some competitors have better name recognition or reputations, as well as larger, more established, and more extensive marketing, customer service, and customer support capabilities than we have; ·some competitors may be able to better adapt to changing market conditions and customer demand; and ·barriers to entry are not significant, and new competitors may enter our markets or develop technologies that reduces the need for our services. Increased competitive pressure could lead to reduced market share, as well as lower prices and reduced margins, for our services. As a result of an anticipated increase in competition in our markets, and the likelihood that some of this competition will come from companies with more established brands and resources than us, we believe brand name recognition and reputation will become increasingly important. If we are not successful in quickly building brand awareness, we could be placed at a competitive disadvantage to companies whose brands are more recognizable than ours. Our business is subject to an uncertain and developing regulatory environment. While relatively few laws and regulations apply specifically to internet businesses, the application of other laws and regulations to internet businesses, including ours, is unclear in many instances. There remains significant legal uncertainty in a variety of areas, including intellectual property, user privacy, the positioning of sponsored listings on search results pages, defamation, taxation, product liability, and the regulation of content in various jurisdictions. 11 Compliance with federal laws relating to the internet and internet businesses may impose upon us significant costs and risks, or may subject us to liability if we do not successfully comply with their requirements, whether intentionally or unintentionally. Specific federal laws that impact our business include The Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, The Communications Decency Act of 1996, The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 (including related Federal Trade Commission regulations), The Protect Our Children Act of 2008, and The Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986, among others. For example, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which is in part intended to reduce the liability of online service providers for listing or linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe the rights of others, was adopted by Congress in 1998. If we violate the Digital Millennium Copyright Act we could be exposed to costly and time-consuming copyright litigation. Our utilization of ACH billing exposes us to review by the National Automated Clearing House Association. Future actions from these and other regulatory agencies could expose us to substantial liability in the future, including fines and criminal penalties, preclusion from offering certain products or services, and the prevention or limitation of certain marketing practices. Existing laws and regulations and any future regulation may have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, we believe that our direct marketing programs meet existing requirements of the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC. Any changes to FTC requirements or changes in our direct or other marketing practices, however, could result in our marketing practices failing to comply with FTC regulations, or could require us to change our marketing strategies or practices, which could adversely impact our ability to acquire new clients. The application of certain laws and regulations to our promotional marketing business, as a new product category, is uncertain. These include federal and state laws governing considered gift cards, gift certificates, stored value cards or prepaid cards, such as the federal Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, or the CARD Act, and unclaimed and abandoned property laws. Numerous class action lawsuits that have been filed in federal and state court claiming that vouchers used in promotional marketing are subject to the CARD Act and various state laws governing gift cards and that the defendants have violated these laws by issuing vouchers with expiration dates and other restrictions. If we are required to alter our promotional marketing business practices as a result of any laws and regulations, our revenue could decrease, our costs could increase and our business could otherwise be harmed. In addition, the costs and expenses associated with defending any actions related to such additional laws and regulations and any payments of related penalties, judgments or settlements could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon our ability to establish and maintain relationships with our customers. Our ability to generate revenue depends upon our ability to maintain relationships with our existing customers, to attract new customers to sign up for revenue-generating products and services, and to generate traffic to our customers’ websites. We primarily use telemarketing efforts to attract new customers. These telemarketing efforts may not produce satisfactory results in the future. We attempt to maintain relationships with our customers through customer service and delivery of traffic to their businesses. An inability to either attract additional customers to use our service or to maintain relationships with our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not introduce new or enhanced offerings to our customers, we may be unable to attract and retain those customers, which would significantly impede our ability to generate revenue. We may need to introduce new or enhanced products and services in order to attract and retain customers and to remain competitive. Our industries have been characterized by rapid technological change, changes in advertiser and user requirements and preferences, and frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies and business logic. These changes could render our technology, systems, and services obsolete or uncompetitive. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent us from introducing new or enhanced products and services. If we do not periodically enhance our existing products and services, develop new technologies that address our customers’ and users’ needs and preferences, or respond to emerging technological advances and industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis, our products and services may not be attractive to customers or their users, which would significantly impede our revenue growth. In addition, our reputation and our brand could be damaged if any new or enhanced product or service introduction is not favorably received. 12 Our results of operations could fluctuate due to factors outside of our control. Our operating results have historically fluctuated significantly, and we could continue to experience fluctuations or revert to declining operating results due to factors that may or may not be within our control. Such factors include the following: ·fluctuating demand for our services, which may depend on a number of factors including: §changes in economic conditions and our customers’ profitability, §changes in technologies favored by consumers, §customer refunds or cancellations, and §our ability to continue to bill through existing means; ·market acceptance of new or enhanced versions of our services or products; ·price competition or pricing changes by us or our competitors; ·new product offerings or other actions by our competitors; ·the ability of our check processing service providers to continue to process and provide billing information; ·the amount and timing of expenditures for expansion of our operations, including the hiring of new employees, capital expenditures, and related costs; ·technical difficulties or failures affecting our systems or the internet in general; ·a decline in internet traffic at our website; and ·the fixed nature of a significant amount of our operating expenses. The loss of our ability to bill customers through our ACH billing channel would adversely impact our results of operations. We bill a significant number of our clients through our ACH billing channel. ACH transactions are closely regulated by the National Automated Clearing House Association, which develops operating rules and business practices for the ACH network and for electronic payments in the areas of internet commerce and other electronic payment means. Changes in these rules and business practices could compromise our ability to bill a significant number of our customers through ACH billing, and we would have to transition these customers to other billing channels. Such changes would be disruptive and could result in lost clients and revenue. We are subject to a number of risks related to credit card payments. We bill a large portion of our clients using credit and debit cards. For credit and debit card payments, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating expenses and adversely affect our net income. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. We believe we are compliant with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which incorporates Visa’s Cardholder Information Security Program and MasterCard’s Site Data Protection standard. However, there is no guarantee that we will maintain such compliance or that compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payment system. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our clients. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would result in significantly higher credit card-related costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 13 We depend upon our executive officers and key personnel. Our performance depends substantially on the performance of our executive officers and other key personnel. The success of our business in the future will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain, and motivate high quality personnel, especially highly qualified sales, technical and managerial personnel. The loss of services of any executive officers or key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We do not have term employment agreements with, or key man life insurance covering, any of our executive officers. Competition for talented personnel is intense, and there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract, train, retain or motivate highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. In addition, market conditions may require us to pay higher compensation to qualified management and technical personnel than we currently anticipate. Any inability to attract and retain qualified management and technical personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We depend upon third parties to provide certain services and software, and our business may suffer if the relationships upon which we depend fail to produce the expected benefits or are terminated. We depend upon third-party software to operate certain of our services. The failure of this software to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, although we believe that several alternative sources for this software are available, any failure to obtain and maintain the rights to use such software could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We also depend upon third parties who provide the cloud computing services which host our customers’ websites, including the mobile web apps, to be sufficiently reliable and provide sufficient capacity and bandwidth so that our business can function properly and our customers’ websites are responsive to current and anticipated traffic. Any restrictions or interruption in those providers’ services or connection to the internet could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are forced to switch hosting facilities, we may not be successful in finding an alternative service provider on acceptable terms or in hosting the required computer servers and implementing the required technology ourselves. We may also be limited in our remedies against these providers in the event of a failure of service. We expect that our anticipated future growth, including through potential acquisitions, may strain our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure, which could adversely affect our business. We anticipate that significant expansion of our present operations will be required to compensate for the loss of clients related to the cessation of LEC billing and to capitalize on potential growth in market opportunities, and that this expansion will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. We expect to add a significant number of additional key personnel in the future, including key managerial, sales and technical employees who will have to be fully integrated into our operations. In order to manage our growth, we will be required to continue to implement and improve our operational, marketing and financial systems, to expand existing operations, to attract and retain superior management and personnel, and to train, manage and expand our employee base. We may not be able to expand our operations effectively, our systems, procedures and controls may be inadequate to support our expanded operations, and our management may fail to implement our business plan successfully. 14 We may not be able to secure additional capital to expand our operations. Although we currently have no material long-term needs for capital expenditures, we will likely be required to make increased capital expenditures to fund our anticipated growth of operations, infrastructure, and personnel. In the future, we may need to seek additional capital through the issuance of debt or equity, depending upon our results of operations, market conditions or unforeseen needs or opportunities. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: ·the pace of expansion of our operations; ·our need to respond to competitive pressures; and ·future acquisitions of complementary products, technologies or businesses. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to existing stockholders. We cannot provide assurance that any financing arrangements will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our success depends both on our internally developed technology and licensed third party technology. We rely on a variety of trademarks, service marks, and designs to promote our brand names and identity. We also rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures, and trademark, copyright, trade secrecy, unfair competition, and other intellectual property laws to protect the proprietary aspects of our products and services. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of the protection of certain intellectual property rights in internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property and may not prevent our competitors from gaining access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that courts will always uphold our intellectual property rights or enforce the contractual arrangements that we have entered into to obtain and protect our proprietary technology. Third parties, including our partners, contractors or employees, may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress, and other proprietary rights. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights, which may result in the dilution of the brand identity of our services. We may decide to initiate litigation in order to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial expense, and may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products or services infringe or misappropriate their intellectual property rights. Any such claim or litigation against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. In addition, such claims or litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: ·cease selling or using any of our products and services that incorporate the subject intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; ·attempt to obtain a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed or misappropriated, which license may not be available on reasonable terms; and ·attempt to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products or services to avoid infringing or misappropriating the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may be costly and time-consuming. 15 Even if we were to prevail, such claims or litigation could be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend, and could result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention. These expenses and diversion of managerial resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be subject to intellectual property claims that create uncertainty about ownership or use of technology essential to our business and divert our managerial and other resources. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties may, in the future, claim our current or future services, products, trademarks, technologies, business methods or processes infringe their intellectual property rights, or challenge the validity of our intellectual property rights. We may be subject to patent infringement claims or other intellectual property infringement claims that would be costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain critical technologies or business methods. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can become very costly and may divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits or proceedings. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could require us to pay substantial compensatory and exemplary damages, could restrain us from using critical technologies, business methods or processes, and could result in us losing, or not gaining, valuable intellectual property rights. Furthermore, due to the voluminous amount of discovery frequently conducted in connection with intellectual property litigation, some of our confidential information could be disclosed to competitors during this type of litigation. In addition, public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation could be perceived negatively by investors, and thus have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. We may be required to expand or upgrade our infrastructure. Our ability to provide high-quality services largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. We (or our third party service providers) may be required to expand or upgrade our (or their) technology, infrastructure, fulfillment capabilities, or customer support capabilities in order to accommodate any significant growth in customers or to replace aging or faulty equipment or technologies. We (or they) may not be able to project accurately the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our services or expand and upgrade our (or their) systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases in a timely manner. Any expansion of our (or our third party service providers’) infrastructure may require us (or them) to make significant upfront expenditures for servers, routers, computer equipment, and additional internet and intranet equipment, as well as to increase bandwidth for internet connectivity. Any such expansion or enhancement may cause system disruptions. Our (or our third party service providers’) inability to expand or upgrade our technology, infrastructure, fulfillment capabilities, customer support capabilities or equipment as required or without disruptions could impair the reputation of our brand and our services and diminish the attractiveness of our service offerings to our clients. We may have an adverse resolution of litigation that may harm our operating results or financial condition. At times, we are a party to lawsuits. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could require us to pay substantial damages or to comply with court orders that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. 16 We may fail to retain existing merchants, or add new merchants, in our promotional marketing business. Our promotional marketing business depends on our strategic partners to publish discounted products and services we source from our SMB clients. We depend on our ability to attract and retain SMBs that are prepared to offer products or services on compelling terms through our strategic partners. We are a recent entrant to this market and we do not have long-term arrangements to guarantee the availability of deals that offer attractive quality, value and variety to consumers or favorable payment terms to us. We must continue to attract and retain merchants in various geographical areas to our promotional marketing business in order to increase revenue and achieve profitability. If new merchants do not find our marketing and promotional services effective, or if existing merchants do not believe that utilizing our products provides them with a long-term increase in customers, revenues or profits, they may stop making offers through us. In addition, we may experience attrition in our merchants in the ordinary course of business resulting from several factors, including losses to competitors and merchant closures or bankruptcies. If we are unable to attract new merchants in numbers sufficient to grow our promotional marketing business, or if too many merchants are unwilling to offer products or services with compelling terms through our strategic partners, or to offer favorable payment terms to us, we may sell fewer daily deals and our operating results will be adversely affected. Our promotional marketing business depends heavily on our strategic partners. Our promotional marketing business is highly dependent upon our ability to sell discounted products and services offered by our SMB clients through our strategic partners. Unlike many of our established competitors, we currently lack a significant subscriber base for selling these offers to potential customers of these SMB clients. Instead, we rely on our strategic partners, some of whom have extremely large user bases, to publish these offers to reach these potential customers. We do not have long-term relationships with these strategic partners. Our agreements with these strategic partners generally permit our partners to terminate the agreement with short or no prior notice, for convenience, and/or do not require our partners to publish the offers we source from our SMB clients. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural catastrophic events and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our service systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins and similar events. For example, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, and our insurance coverage will likely be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Our servers may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential intellectual property or client data. We may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in certain circumstances, such as natural disasters affecting the Las Vegas or San Diego area, and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. As we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the internet to conduct our business and provide high quality customer service, such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to operate our business, which could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We have made strategic acquisitions and divestitures in the past few years and may complete similar transactions in the future and cannot assure you that any future transactions will be successful. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired a number of businesses and assets, including our recent acquisition of LiveOpenly, Inc., and we regularly look for opportunities to support our new business strategy through appropriate acquisitions, divestitures and strategic alliances. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying appropriate transaction partners or integrating the acquired businesses into our operations in a way that ultimately supports our business strategy or revenues. We may enter into additional acquisitions, business combinations or strategic alliances in the future. Acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets acquired. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology, which requires a substantial commitment of resources and management’s attention, may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The acquisition of a company or business is accompanied by a number of risks, including: 17 ·exposure to unanticipated liabilities of an acquired company (or acquired assets); ·difficulties integrating or developing acquired technology into our services or acquired products or services into our operations, and unanticipated expenses or disruptions related to such integration; ·the potential loss of key partners or key personnel in connection with, or as the result of, a transaction; ·the impairment of relationships with clients of the acquired business, or our own clients, partners or employees, as a result of any integration of operations or the expansion of our offerings; ·the recording of goodwill and intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges; ·the diversion of the attention of our management team from other business concerns, including the day-to-day management of our businesses or the internal growth strategies that we are currently implementing; ·the risk of entering into markets or producing products where we have limited or no experience, including the integration or removal of the acquired or disposed technologies and products with or from our existing technologies and products; and ·the inability properly to implement or remediate internal controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at businesses that prior to our acquisition were not subject to federal securities laws and may have lacked appropriate controls, procedures and policies. We may not be able to adapt as the internet, mobile technologies and customer demands continue to evolve. The internet, e-commerce, the online marketing industry and mobile devices are characterized by: ·rapid technological change; ·changes in customer and user requirements and preferences; ·frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies and business logic; and ·the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing service offerings, technology, and hardware and software infrastructure obsolete. In order to compete successfully in the future, we must: ·enhance our existing services and develop new services and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective or current customers; ·license, develop or acquire technologies useful in our business on a timely basis; and ·respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our failure to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. 18 Our business could be negatively impacted if the security of our or our partners’ equipment becomes compromised. To the extent that our activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information about our customers or users, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to minimize problems caused by security breaches. Our (or our third party service providers’) security measures may not prevent security breaches. The failure to prevent these security breaches or a misappropriation of proprietary information may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are not able to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately or timely report our financial results, which could cause our stock price to fall or result in our stock being delisted. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports. We will need to devote significant resources and time to comply with the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley with respect to internal control over financial reporting. In addition, Section 404 under Sarbanes-Oxley requires that we assess the design and operating effectiveness of our controls over financial reporting. Our ability to comply with the annual internal control report requirement will depend on the effectiveness of our financial reporting and data systems and controls across our company and our operating subsidiaries. We expect these systems and controls to become increasingly complex to the extent that we integrate acquisitions and our business grows. To effectively manage this complexity, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial, and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation or operation of these controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could adversely affect our business and jeopardize our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, either of which would harm our stock price. Risks Related to the Internet We may be unable to keep pace with rapid technological change in the internet industry. In order to remain competitive, we will be required continually to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our existing products and services, which could require us to invest significant capital or make substantial changes to our personnel, technologies or equipment. If our competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing services, technologies, and systems may become obsolete or uncompetitive. We may not have the funds or technical knowledge to upgrade our services, technologies, or systems. If we face material delays in introducing new or enhanced products and services, our customers and users may select those of our competitors, in which event our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Regulation of the internet may adversely affect our business. The laws governing the internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where legislation has been enacted. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws, such as those governing intellectual property, privacy, defamation, product liability, and taxation apply to the internet and internet services. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and operating results. 19 Due to the increasing popularity and use of the internet and online services such as online Yellow Pages, federal, state, local, and foreign governments may adopt laws and regulations, or amend existing laws and regulations, with respect to the internet and other online services. These laws and regulations may affect issues such as user privacy, pricing, content, taxation, copyrights, distribution, product liability and quality of products and services. In addition, the growth and development of the market for electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws, both in the United States and abroad, that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business over the internet, including those covering user privacy, data protection, spyware, “do not email” lists, “do not call” lists, access to high speed and broadband service. Other laws and regulations that have been adopted, or may be adopted in the future, that may affect our business include pricing, taxation (including sales, value-added and other transactional taxes), tariffs, patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, export of encryption technology, electronic contracting, click-fraud, acceptable content, search terms, lead generation, behavioral targeting, consumer protection, and quality of products and services. Any new legislation could hinder the growth in use of the internet generally or in our industry and could impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our products and services, increase our cost of doing business, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain internet domain names that we would like to have. We believe that our existing internet domain names are an extremely important part of our business. We may desire, or it may be necessary in the future, to use these or other domain names in the United States and internationally. Various internet regulatory bodies regulate the acquisition and maintenance of domain names in the United States and other countries. These regulations are subject to change. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names in all countries in which we plan to conduct business in the future. The extent to which laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights will be extended to protect domain names currently is not clear. We therefore may be unable to prevent competitors from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our domain names, trademarks, trade names, and other proprietary rights. We cannot provide assurance that potential users and customers will not confuse our domain names, trademarks, and trade names with other similar names and marks. If that confusion occurs, we may lose business to a competitor and some customers and users may have negative experiences with other companies that those customers and users erroneously associate with us. Our technical systems could be vulnerable to online security risks, service interruptions or damage to our systems. Our (or our third party service providers’) systems and operations may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, penetration of our network by unauthorized computer users or “hackers,” natural disaster, and similar events. Preventing, alleviating, or eliminating computer viruses and other service-related or security problems may require interruptions, delays or cessation of service. We may need to expend significant resources protecting against the threat of security breaches or alleviating potential or actual service interruptions. The occurrence of such unanticipated problems or security breaches could cause material interruptions or delays in our business, loss of data, or misappropriation of proprietary information or could render us unable to provide services to our customers for an indeterminate length of time. The occurrence of any or all of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. 20 If we are sued for content distributed through, or linked to by, our website or those of our customers, we may be required to spend substantial resources to defend ourselves and could be required to pay monetary damages. We aggregate and distribute third-party data and other content over the internet. In addition, third-party websites are accessible through our website or those of our customers. As a result, we could be subject to legal claims for defamation, negligence, intellectual property infringement, product or service liability or other torts. Other claims may be based on errors or false or misleading information provided on or through our website or websites of our customers, or on links to sexually explicit or gambling websites and sexually explicit advertisements. We may need to expend substantial resources to investigate and defend these claims, regardless of whether we successfully defend against them. While we carry general business insurance, the amount of coverage we maintain may not be adequate. In addition, implementing measures to reduce our exposure to this liability may require us to spend substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of our products or services to users. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a client’s data, our service may be perceived as not being secure and clients may curtail or stop using our service. Our service may involve the storage and transmission of clients’ proprietary information, such as credit card and bank account numbers, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. Our payment services may be susceptible to credit card and other payment fraud schemes, including unauthorized use of credit cards, debit cards or bank account information, identity theft or merchant fraud. If our security measures are breached in the future as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our clients’ data, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liabilities. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and frequently are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and clients. Our revenue may be negatively affected if we are required to charge sales tax or other transaction taxes on all or a portion of our past and future sales to customers located in jurisdictions where we are currently not collecting and reporting tax. We generally do not charge, collect or have imposed upon us sales, value added (VAT) or other transaction taxes related to the products and services we sell, except for certain corporate level taxes and transaction level taxes outside of the United States. However, the federal, state, and local governments or one or more foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other transaction tax obligations on us in the future. A successful assertion by any tax jurisdiction in which we do business that we should be collecting sales or other transaction taxes on the sale of our products or services, or the adoption of new laws to require us to collect such taxes, could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales, create increased administrative burdens or costs, discourage customers from purchasing or continuing to purchase products or services from us, decrease our ability to compete or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Securities We have experienced difficulties maintaining compliance with applicable requirements for the continued listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market, and any future failure to comply with such requirements could result in the delisting of common stock from that trading market. During our 2011 fiscal year, we fell out of compliance with certain requirements for the continued listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market, including the requirements that we maintain (i) at least 500,000 “publicly held” shares of common stock (i.e., shares not held by directors, officers or 10% stockholders), (ii) at least $2.5 million of stockholders’ equity, and (iii) a market value of our “publicly held” shares of at least $1.0 million. While we obtained a notice from NASDAQ on August 23, 2012 that we regained compliance with the applicable listing rules, and on November 30, 2012 that we were removed from further compliance monitoring, we can provide no assurance that we will remain in compliance with NASDAQ’s listing requirements, or that our common stock will continue to be traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market or any other market. 21 Stock prices of technology companies have declined precipitously at times in the past and the trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile over the past few years and investors could experience losses in response to factors including the following, many of which are beyond our control: ·decreased demand in the internet services sector; ·variations in our operating results; ·announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; ·changes in expectations of our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; ·our failure to meet analysts’ expectations; ·changes in operating and stock price performance of other technology companies similar to us; ·conditions or trends in the technology industry, the online marketing industry or the mobile device industry; ·additions or departures of key personnel or strategic partners; and ·future sales of our debt or equity securities, including common stock. Domestic and international stock markets often experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies with securities trading in those markets. These fluctuations, as well as political events, terrorist attacks, threatened or actual war, and general economic conditions unrelated to our performance, may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In the past, securities holders of other companies often have initiated securities class action litigation against those companies following periods of volatility in the market price of those companies’ securities. If the market price of our stock fluctuates and our stockholders initiate this type of litigation, we could incur substantial costs and experience a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, regardless of the outcome. This could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be developed or sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: ·our operating performance and the operating performance of similar companies; ·the overall performance of the equity markets; ·the number of shares of our common stock publicly owned and available for trading; ·threatened or actual litigation; ·changes in laws or regulations relating to our solutions; ·any major change in our board of directors or management; ·publication of research reports about us or our industry or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; ·large volumes of sales of our shares of common stock by existing stockholders; and ·general political and economic conditions. 22 Due to our concentrated stock ownership, public stockholders may have no effective voice in our management and the trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Three stockholders beneficially own approximately 63.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock, and one of them, our CEO, is the beneficial owner of approximately 29.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Each of these three stockholders also has a contractual right to nominate a director to our board of directors. These stockholders, collectively, have the ability to determine the outcome of the election of directors at our annual meetings and to determine the outcome of many significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations, dissolutions or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, many of which only require the approval of a majority of our voting power. . These stockholders may have interests that differ from other stockholders and may vote in a way with which other stockholders disagree and which may be adverse to other stockholders’ interests. Moreover, such a concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring us at a premium. This significant concentration of share ownership may also adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with concentrated stock ownership. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future due to our limited funds for operations. Therefore, any return on your investment would likely come only from an increase in the market value of our common stock. Certain provisions of Nevada law, in our organizational documents and in contracts to which we are party may prevent or delay a change of control of our company. We are subject to the Nevada anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent Nevada corporations from engaging in a merger, consolidation, sales of its stock or assets, and certain other transactions with any stockholder, including all affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 10% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 10% or more of the corporation’s voting stock, except in certain situations. In addition, our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws include a number of provisions that may deter or impede hostile takeovers or changes of control or management. These provisions include the following: ·the authority of our board to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, and privileges of these shares, without stockholder approval; ·stockholders must comply with advance notice requirements to transact any business at the annual meeting; ·all stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called meeting of stockholders and not by written consent, unless such action or proposal is first approved by our board of directors; ·special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President of our company; ·a director may be removed from office only for cause by the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting power entitled to vote at an election of directors; ·our board of directors is expressly authorized to alter, amend or repeal our bylaws; ·newly-created directorships and vacancies on our board of directors may only be filled by a majority of remaining directors, and not by our stockholders; and ·cumulative voting is not allowed in the election of our directors. 23 These provisions of Nevada law and our articles and bylaws could prohibit or delay mergers or other takeover or change of control of our company and may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire us, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, provisions in a securities purchase agreement we entered into in December 2011 grant three of our stockholders the right to nominate a director for election to our board of directors. Our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules as promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In the event that no exclusion from the definition of “penny stock” under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is available, then any broker engaging in a transaction in our common stock will be required to provide its customers with a risk disclosure document, disclosure of market quotations, if any, disclosure of the compensation of the broker-dealer and its sales person in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market values of our securities held in the customer’s accounts. The bid and offer quotation and compensation information must be provided prior to effecting the transaction and must be contained on the customer’s confirmation of sale. Certain brokers are less willing to engage in transactions involving “penny stocks” as a result of the additional disclosure requirements described above, which may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to dispose of their shares. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 