Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many risks and uncertainties that can affect our current or future business, operating results, financial performance or share price. Here is a brief description of some of the important factors which could adversely affect our current or future business, operating results, financial condition or share price. This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements. See “Forward Looking Statements.”Risks That May Impact Our Financial Condition or PerformanceVolatility in the financial markets may impair our ability to refinance existing obligations or obtain new financing for acquisition or development of properties. The global financial markets recently have undergone and may continue to experience pervasive and fundamental disruptions. While the capital markets have shown signs of improvement, the sustainability of an economic recovery is uncertain and additional levels of market disruption and volatility could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance our existing obligations as they mature or obtain new financing for acquisition or development of properties. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and negatively impact the market price of our securities, including our common stock. The credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt and preferred equity securities are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. Our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and it may be more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments.An increase in interest rates could increase interest cost on new debt, and could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets and limit our acquisition and development activities. If interest rates increase, so could our interest costs for any new debt. This increased cost could make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. Rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increase interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.We previously made a significant investment in a planned casino and resort development, which is now the subject of ongoing litigation. We cannot predict the duration or outcome of this litigation. In the event of prolonged litigation or an unfavorable outcome, or other factors outside of the litigation, the casino project and resort development may be indefinitely delayed or canceled, which could have a material adverse effect on the casino project and resort development and/or our financial condition and results of operations.We previously reached a settlement agreement with the developer of the planned casino and resort project in Sullivan County, New York and certain related affiliates, pursuant to which we acquired certain land at the project. Entities 12affiliated with the developer of the casino property subsequently commenced litigation against us and certain of our subsidiaries regarding matters addressed by the settlement agreement. We believe we have meritorious defenses to this litigation and intend to defend it vigorously. There can be no assurances, however, as to the duration or ultimate outcome of this litigation, nor can there be any assurances as to the costs we may incur in defending against and/or resolving this litigation. In the event of prolonged litigation or an unfavorable outcome, or simply as a result of economic conditions, the planned casino and resort development may be indefinitely delayed or canceled. There can be no assurance that such an indefinite delay or cancellation would not have a material adverse effect on our investment, which could cause us to record an impairment charge with respect to our interest in such property, and which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The failure of a bank to fund a request (or any portion of such request) by us to borrow money under one of our credit facilities could reduce our ability to make additional investments, fund our operations, service our debt and pay distributions.We have existing credit facilities with several banking institutions. If any of these banking institutions which are a party to such credit facilities fails to fund a request (or any portion of such request) by us to borrow money under one of these existing credit facilities, our ability to make investments in our business, fund our operations and pay debt service and distributions could be reduced, each of which could result in a decline in the value of your investment.The failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could reduce the amount of cash we have available to pay distributions, make additional investments and service our debt.We have diversified our cash and cash equivalents between several banking institutions in an attempt to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. However, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or “FDIC,” only insures interest-bearing accounts in amounts up to $250,000 per depositor per insured bank. We currently have cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash deposited in certain financial institutions in excess of federally insured levels. If any of the banking institutions in which we have deposited funds ultimately fails, we may lose our deposits over $250,000. The loss of our deposits may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.We depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from our tenants, who may not be able to pay.At any time, a tenant may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. Similarly, a general decline in the economy may result in a decline in demand for space at our commercial properties. Our financial results depend significantly on leasing space at our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. In addition, because a majority of our income comes from leasing real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to our shareholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain our levels of occupancy on favorable terms. If tenants of a property cannot pay their rent or we are not able to maintain our levels of occupancy on favorable terms, there is also a risk that the fair value of the underlying property will be considered less than its carrying value and we may have to take a charge against earnings. In addition, if a tenant does not pay its rent, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and might incur substantial legal costs.If a tenant becomes bankrupt or insolvent, that could diminish or eliminate the income we expect from that tenant's leases. If a tenant becomes insolvent or bankrupt, we cannot be sure that we could recover the premises from the tenant promptly or from a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy proceeding relating to the tenant. On the other hand, a bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to terminate its leases with us. If that happens, our claim against the bankrupt tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to statutory limitations that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the leases. In addition, any claim we have for unpaid past rent would likely not be paid in full and we would also have to take a charge against earnings for any accrued straight-line rent receivable related to the leases. Specifically, the recent economic downturn has adversely affected the wine industry, and has severely impacted the cash flow of many of our vineyard and winery properties, which has resulted and may continue to result in their failure to have sufficient funds to support operations or make payments under their leases. 13We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to credit risk. There is a risk that a customer or counterparty will fail to meet its obligations when due, particularly given the current state of the economy. Customers and counterparties that owe us money may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Although we have procedures for reviewing credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties to address present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Some of our risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one customer or counterparty could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other customers or counterparties, which in turn could adversely affect us. We may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by our customers and counterparties.We could be adversely affected by a borrower's bankruptcy or default.If a borrower becomes bankrupt or insolvent or defaults under its loan, that could force us to declare a default and foreclose on any available collateral. As a result, future interest income recognition related to the applicable note receivable could be significantly reduced or eliminated. There is also a risk that the fair value of the collateral, if any, will be less than the carrying value of the note and accrued interest receivable at the time of a foreclosure and we may have to take a charge against earnings. If a property serves as collateral for a note, we may experience costs and delays in recovering the property in foreclosure or finding a substitute operator for the property. If a mortgage we hold is subordinated to senior financing secured by the property, our recovery would be limited to any amount remaining after satisfaction of all amounts due to the holder of the senior financing. In addition, to protect our subordinated investment, we may desire to refinance any senior financing. However, there is no assurance that such refinancing would be available or, if it were to be available, that the terms would be attractive.Our theatre tenants may be adversely affected by the obsolescence of any older multiplex theatres they own or by any overbuilding of megaplex theatres in their markets. The development of megaplex theatres has rendered many older multiplex theatres obsolete. To the extent our tenants own a substantial number of multiplexes, they have been, or may in the future be, required to take significant charges against their earnings resulting from the impairment of these assets. Megaplex theatre operators have also been and could in the future be adversely affected by any overbuilding of megaplex theatres in their markets and the cost of financing, building and leasing megaplex theatres.The base term of some of our original theatre leases are beginning to expire and there is no assurance that such leases will be renewed at existing lease terms or that we can lease any re-claimed space from some of our larger theatres at economically favorable terms.The base term of some of our original theatre leases are beginning to expire. For theatres that are not performing as well as they did in the past, the tenants have and may continue to seek rent or other concessions or not renew at all. Furthermore, some tenants of our larger megaplex theatres desire to down-size the theatres they lease to respond to market trends. As a result, these tenants have and may continue to seek rent or other concessions from us, including requiring us to down-size the theatres or otherwise modify the properties in order to renew their leases. Furthermore, while any such screen reductions would likely create opportunities to reclaim a portion of the former theatres for conversion to other uses, there is no guarantee that we can re-lease such space or that such leases would be at economically favorable terms. Operating risks in the entertainment industry may affect the ability of our tenants to perform under their leases. The ability of our tenants to operate successfully in the entertainment industry and remain current on their lease obligations depends on a number of factors, including the availability and popularity of motion pictures, the performance of those pictures in tenants' markets, the allocation of popular pictures to tenants, the release window (represents the time that elapses from the date of a picture's theatrical release to the date it is available on other mediums) and the terms on which the pictures are licensed. Neither we nor our tenants control the operations of motion picture distributors. Megaplex theatres represent a greater capital investment, and generate higher rents, than the previous generation of multiplex theatres. For this reason, the ability of our tenants to operate profitably and perform under their leases could 14be dependent on their ability to generate higher revenues per screen than multiplex theatres typically produce. The success of “out-of-home” entertainment venues such as megaplex theatres, entertainment retail centers and recreational properties also depends on general economic conditions and the willingness of consumers to spend time and money on out-of-home entertainment.Real estate is a competitive business. Our business operates in highly competitive environments. We compete with a large number of real estate property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments. Principal factors of competition are rent or interest charged, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and breadth and quality of services provided. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below the rental rates we are currently charging our tenants, we may lose potential tenants, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain tenants when our tenants' leases expire. Our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends. A single tenant represents a substantial portion of our lease revenues.For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 35% of our total revenue was derived from rental payments by AMC, one of the nation's largest movie exhibition companies, under leases for megaplex theatre properties. AMCE Entertainment, Inc. (“AMCE”) has guaranteed AMC's performance under substantially all of their leases. We have diversified and expect to continue to diversify our real estate portfolio by entering into lease transactions with a number of other leading operators. Nevertheless, our revenues and our continuing ability to service our debt and pay shareholder dividends are currently substantially dependent on AMC's performance under its leases and AMCE's performance under its guarantee. We believe AMC occupies a strong position in the industry and we intend to continue acquiring and leasing back or developing new AMC theatres. However, AMC and AMCE are susceptible to the same risks as our other tenants described herein. If for any reason AMC failed to perform under its lease obligations and AMCE did not perform under its guarantee, we could be required to reduce or suspend our shareholder distributions and may not have sufficient funds to support operations or service our debt until substitute tenants are obtained. If that happened, we cannot predict when or whether we could obtain substitute quality tenants on acceptable terms. A single tenant leases or is the mortgagor of all our investments related to metropolitan ski areas and a single tenant leases a significant number of our public charter school properties.Peak is the lessee of our metropolitan ski area in Ohio and is the mortgagor on five notes receivable secured by ten metropolitan ski areas and related development land. Similarly, Imagine is the lessee of a significant number of our public charter school properties. If Peak failed to perform under its lease and mortgage loan obligations, and/or Imagine failed to perform under its master lease, we may need to reduce our shareholder distributions and may not have sufficient funds to support operations or service our debt until substitute operators are obtained. If that happened, we cannot predict when or whether we could obtain quality substitute tenants or mortgagors on acceptable terms.Public charter schools are operated pursuant to charters granted by various state or other regulatory authorities and are dependent upon funding from such regulatory authorities. We could be adversely affected by a public charter school's failure to comply with its charter, non-renewal of a charter upon expiration or by its reduction or loss of funding. Our public charter school properties operate pursuant to charters granted by various state or other regulatory authorities, which are generally shorter than our lease terms, and most of the schools have undergone or expect to undergo compliance audits or reviews by such regulatory authorities. Such audits and reviews examine the financial as well as the academic performance of the school. Adverse audit or review findings could result in non-renewal, revocation or termination of a charter school's charter, or in some cases, a reduction in the amount of state funding, repayment of previously received state funding or other economic sanctions. Our public charter school tenants are also dependent upon funding from various state or other regulatory authorities, which are currently experiencing budgetary constraints, and any reduction or loss of such funding could adversely affect a public charter school's ability to comply with its charter and/or pay its obligations. 15Although our public charter school tenants have not experienced a significant number of charter non-renewals, revocations or terminations to date, there can be no assurances that such tenants' charters will not be subject to these actions in the future. Imagine, an operator of public charter schools, is a lessee of a significant number of our public charter school properties. Recently, some of the public charter schools operated by Imagine that are located on our properties have been subject to compliance audits or reviews that resulted in probationary actions and, in one case, charter revocation. We are currently in the process of resolving these issues with Imagine; however there can be no assurances that any such solutions will satisfy either the respective regulatory body or the Company, and could result in the Company pursuing its remedies in the lease. We believe that we have taken actions to mitigate, or have otherwise accounted for, some of the risks associated with our public charter school properties. For instance, Imagine is required to maintain irrevocable letters of credit to secure a portion of their annual lease payment owed to us under the master lease agreement. Subject to our approval and certain other terms and conditions, the master lease agreement also allows Imagine to repurchase from us the public charter school properties that are causing technical defaults and, in substitution for such properties, sell to us public charter school properties that would otherwise comply with the lease agreement. However, there is no guarantee that acceptable schools will be available for substitutions or that such substitutions will be completed. In addition, while governing authorities may approve substitute operators for failed public charter schools to ensure continuity for students, we cannot predict when or whether applicable governing authorities would approve such substitute operators, nor can we predict whether we could reach lease agreements with such substitute tenants on acceptable terms.There are risks inherent in having indebtedness and the use of such indebtedness to fund acquisitions.We currently utilize debt to fund portions of our operations and acquisitions. In a rising interest rate environment, the cost of our variable rate debt and any new variable rate debt will increase. We have used leverage to acquire properties and expect to continue to do so in the future. Although the use of leverage is common in the real estate industry, our use of debt exposes us to some risks. If a significant number of our tenants fail to make their lease payments and we don't have sufficient cash to pay principal and interest on the debt, we could default on our debt obligations. A substantial amount of our debt financing is secured by mortgages on our properties. If we fail to meet our mortgage payments, the lenders could declare a default and foreclose on those properties. Most of our debt instruments contain balloon payments which may adversely impact our financial performance and our ability to pay distributions.Most of our financing arrangements require us to make a lump-sum or "balloon" payment at maturity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance such debt on favorable terms or at all. To the extent we cannot refinance such debt on favorable terms or at all, we may be forced to dispose of properties on disadvantageous terms or pay higher interest rates, either of which would have an adverse impact on our financial performance and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.We must obtain new financing in order to grow.As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable net income to shareholders in the form of dividends. Other than deciding to make these distributions in our common shares, we are limited in our ability to use internal capital to acquire properties and must continually raise new capital in order to continue to grow and diversify our investment portfolio. Our ability to raise new capital depends in part on factors beyond our control, including conditions in equity and credit markets, conditions in the industries in which our tenants are engaged and the performance of real estate investment trusts generally. We continually consider and evaluate a variety of potential transactions to raise additional capital, but we cannot assure that attractive alternatives will always be available to us, nor that our share price will increase or remain at a level that will permit us to continue to raise equity capital publicly or privately.Covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions and development activities.The mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. Our unsecured revolving credit facility, term loan facility, senior notes and other loans that we may obtain in the future contain certain cross-default provisions as well as customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to 16total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense and fixed charges. Our ability to borrow under both our unsecured revolving credit facility and our term loan facility is also subject to compliance with certain other covenants. In addition, failure to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. Under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or be available only on unattractive terms. Additionally, our ability to satisfy current or prospective lenders' insurance requirements may be adversely affected if lenders generally insist upon greater insurance coverage against acts of terrorism than is available to us in the marketplace or on commercially reasonable terms. We rely on debt financing, including borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility, term loan facility and debt secured by individual properties, to finance our acquisition and development activities and for working capital. If we are unable to obtain financing from these or other sources, or to refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. We may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies and this may create risks.We may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies when we believe that an acquisition or development is consistent with our business strategies. We may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on time. In addition, we may face competition in pursuing acquisition or development opportunities that could increase our costs. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management's attention. Acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may expose us to unanticipated risks in those markets and industries to which we are unable to effectively respond and, as a result, our performance in those new markets and industries and overall may be worse than anticipated. In addition, there is no assurance that planned third party financing related to acquisition and development opportunities will be provided on a timely basis or at all, thus increasing the risk that such opportunities are delayed or fail to be completed as originally contemplated. We may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred and have devoted management time to a matter not consummated. Furthermore, our acquisitions of new properties or companies will expose us to the liabilities of those properties or companies, some of which we may not be aware at the time of acquisition. In addition, development of our existing properties presents similar risks.Our real estate investments are concentrated in entertainment, entertainment-related and recreational properties and a significant portion of those investments are in megaplex theatre properties, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were more diversified.We acquire, develop or finance entertainment, entertainment-related and recreational properties. A significant portion of our investments are in megaplex theatre properties. Although we are subject to the general risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, the risks resulting from a lack of diversification become even greater as a result of investing primarily in entertainment, entertainment-related and recreational properties. These risks are further heightened by the fact that a significant portion of our investments are in megaplex theatre properties. Although a downturn in the real estate industry could significantly adversely affect the value of our properties, a downturn in the entertainment, entertainment-related and recreational industries could compound this adverse effect. These adverse effects could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments to a greater degree outside of entertainment, entertainment-related and recreational properties or, more particularly, outside of megaplex theatre properties. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of dividends to our shareholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be taxed as a corporation. We are organized and believe we qualify as a REIT, and intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we cannot provide any assurance that we have always qualified and will remain qualified in the future. This is because qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, on which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and depends on facts and circumstances not entirely within our control. In addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws, the application of the tax laws to our qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification.17If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year (including any prior taxable year for which the statute of limitations remains open) we would face tax consequences that could substantially reduce the funds available for the service of our debt and payment of dividends: •We would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates;•We could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes;•Unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be treated as a REIT for four taxable years following the year in which we were disqualified; and•We could be subject to tax penalties and interest.In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will no longer be required to pay dividends. As a result of these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could adversely affect the market price for our shares.We will depend on dividends and distributions from our direct and indirect subsidiaries to service our debt and make distributions to our shareholders. The creditors of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to us.Substantially all of our assets are held through our subsidiaries. We depend on these subsidiaries for substantially all of our cash flow. The creditors of each of our direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to us. Thus, our ability to service our debt obligations and make distributions to holders of our common and preferred shares depends on our subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to us. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligations, other than guaranties of our debt, to make funds available to us.Our development financing arrangements expose us to funding and purchase risks.Our ability to meet our construction financing obligations which we have undertaken or may enter into in the future depends on our ability to obtain equity or debt financing in the required amounts. There is no assurance we can obtain this financing or that the financing rates available will ensure a spread between our cost of capital and the rent or interest payable to us under the related leases or mortgage notes receivable. As a result, we could fail to meet our construction financing obligations which, in turn, could result in failed projects and related foreclosures and penalties, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and business. We have a limited number of employees and loss of personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares.We had 27 full-time employees as of December 31, 2011 and, therefore, the impact we may feel from the loss of an employee may be greater than the impact such a loss would have on a larger organization. We are dependent on the efforts of the following individuals: David M. Brain, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Gregory K. Silvers, our Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, General Counsel and Secretary; Mark A. Peterson, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Morgan G. Earnest, our Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer and Michael L. Hirons, our Vice President - Finance. While we believe that we could find replacements for our personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares.Risks That Apply to our Real Estate BusinessReal estate income and the value of real estate investments fluctuate due to various factors.The value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. These conditions may also limit our revenues and available cash. The factors that affect the value of our real estate include, among other things: •international, national, regional and local economic conditions;•consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the United States or Canada;•our ability to secure adequate insurance;18•local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area;•competition from other available space;•whether tenants and users such as customers of our tenants consider a property attractive;•the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults;•whether we are able to pass some or all of any increased operating costs through to tenants;•how well we manage our properties;•fluctuations in interest rates;•changes in real estate taxes and other expenses;•changes in market rental rates;•the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals;•changes in taxation or zoning laws;•government regulation;•our failure to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes;•availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all;•potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; and •general competitive factors.The rents and interest we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. If our revenues decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay our indebtedness and distribute to our shareholders. In addition, some of our unreimbursed costs of owning real estate may not decline when the related rents decline.There are risks associated with owning and leasing real estate.Although our lease terms obligate the tenants to bear substantially all of the costs of operating the properties, investing in real estate involves a number of risks, including:•the risk that tenants will not perform under their leases, reducing our income from the leases or requiring us to assume the cost of performing obligations (such as taxes, insurance and maintenance) that are the tenant's responsibility under the lease;•the risk that changes in economic conditions or real estate markets may adversely affect the value of our properties;•the risk that local conditions could adversely affect the value of our properties;•we may not always be able to lease properties at favorable rates or certain tenants may require significant capital expenditures by us to conform existing properties to their requirements;•we may not always be able to sell a property when we desire to do so at a favorable price; and•changes in tax, zoning or other laws could make properties less attractive or less profitable.If a tenant fails to perform on its lease covenants, that would not excuse us from meeting any debt obligation secured by the property and could require us to fund reserves in favor of our lenders, thereby reducing funds available for payment of dividends. We cannot be assured that tenants will elect to renew their leases when the terms expire. If a tenant does not renew its lease or if a tenant defaults on its lease obligations, there is no assurance we could obtain a substitute tenant on acceptable terms. If we cannot obtain another quality tenant, we may be required to modify the property for a different use, which may involve a significant capital expenditure and a delay in re-leasing the property.Some potential losses are not covered by insurance.Our leases require the tenants to carry comprehensive liability, casualty, workers' compensation, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on our properties. We believe the required coverage is of the type, and amount, customarily obtained by an owner of similar properties. We believe all of our properties are adequately insured. However, there are some types of losses, such as catastrophic acts of nature, acts of war or riots, for which we or our tenants cannot obtain insurance at an acceptable cost. If there is an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insurance limits, we could lose both the revenues generated by the affected property and the capital we have invested in the property. We would, however, remain obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. Since September 11, 2001, the cost of insurance protection against terrorist acts has risen dramatically. There can be no assurance our tenants will be able to obtain terrorism insurance coverage, or that any coverage they do obtain will adequately protect our 19properties against loss from terrorist attack.Joint ventures may limit flexibility with jointly owned investments.We may continue to acquire or develop properties in joint ventures with third parties when those transactions appear desirable. We would not own the entire interest in any property acquired by a joint venture. Major decisions regarding a joint venture property may require the consent of our partner. If we have a dispute with a joint venture partner, we may feel it necessary or become obligated to acquire the partner's interest in the venture. However, we cannot ensure that the price we would have to pay or the timing of the acquisition would be favorable to us. If we own less than a 50% interest in any joint venture, or if the venture is jointly controlled, the assets and financial results of the joint venture may not be reportable by us on a consolidated basis. To the extent we have commitments to, or on behalf of, or are dependent on, any such “off-balance sheet” arrangements, or if those arrangements or their properties or leases are subject to material contingencies, our liquidity, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected by those commitments or off-balance sheet arrangements.Our multi-tenant properties expose us to additional risks. Our entertainment retail centers in Westminster, Colorado, New Rochelle, New York, Burbank, California, Suffolk, Virginia and Ontario, Canada, and similar properties we may seek to acquire or develop in the future, involve risks not typically encountered in the purchase and lease-back of real estate properties which are operated by a single tenant. The ownership or development of multi-tenant retail centers could expose us to the risk that a sufficient number of suitable tenants may not be found to enable the centers to operate profitably and provide a return to us. This risk may be compounded by the failure of existing tenants to satisfy their obligations due to various factors, including the current economic crisis. These risks, in turn, could cause a material adverse impact to our results of operations and business. Retail centers are also subject to tenant turnover and fluctuations in occupancy rates, which could affect our operating results. Multi-tenant retail centers also expose us to the risk of potential “CAM slippage,” which may occur when the actual cost of taxes, insurance and maintenance at the property exceeds the CAM fees paid by tenants. Failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other laws could result in substantial costs.Our theatres must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”). The ADA requires that public accommodations reasonably accommodate individuals with disabilities and that new construction or alterations be made to commercial facilities to conform to accessibility guidelines. Failure to comply with the ADA can result in injunctions, fines, damage awards to private parties and additional capital expenditures to remedy noncompliance. Our leases require the tenants to comply with the ADA.Our properties are also subject to various other federal, state and local regulatory requirements. We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will involve significant unanticipated expenditures. Although these expenditures would be the responsibility of our tenants, if tenants fail to perform these obligations, we may be required to do so.Potential liability for environmental contamination could result in substantial costs.Under federal, state and local environmental laws, we may be required to investigate and clean up any release of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at our properties, regardless of our knowledge or actual responsibility, simply because of our current or past ownership of the real estate. If unidentified environmental problems arise, we may have to make substantial payments, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our debt and make distributions to our shareholders. This is because: •as owner we may have to pay for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with the contamination;•the law may impose clean-up responsibility and liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the contamination;•even if more than one person is responsible for the contamination, each person who shares legal liability under environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs; and•governmental entities and third parties may sue the owner or operator of a contaminated site for damages and costs.20These costs could be substantial and in extreme cases could exceed the value of the contaminated property. The presence of hazardous substances or petroleum products or the failure to properly remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or lease an affected property. In addition, some environmental laws create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with a contamination. Most of our loan agreements require the Company or a subsidiary to indemnify the lender against environmental liabilities. Our leases require the tenants to operate the properties in compliance with environmental laws and to indemnify us against environmental liability arising from the operation of the properties. We believe all of our properties are in material compliance with environmental laws. However, we could be subject to strict liability under environmental laws because we own the properties. There is also a risk that tenants may not satisfy their environmental compliance and indemnification obligations under the leases. Any of these events could substantially increase our cost of operations, require us to fund environmental indemnities in favor of our lenders, limit the amount we could borrow under our unsecured revolving credit facility and term loan facility and reduce our ability to service our debt and make distributions to shareholders.Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. We may desire to sell a property in the future because of changes in market conditions, poor tenant performance or default of any mortgage we hold, or to avail ourselves of other opportunities. We may also be required to sell a property in the future to meet debt obligations or avoid a default. Specialty real estate projects such as megaplex theatres cannot always be sold quickly, and we cannot assure you that we could always obtain a favorable price. In addition, the Internal Revenue Code limits our ability to sell our properties. We may be required to invest in the restoration or modification of a property before we can sell it. The inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our property portfolio could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to service our debt and make distributions to our shareholders.There are risks in owning assets outside the United States.Our properties in Canada are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations. The rentals under our Canadian leases and the debt service on our Canadian mortgage financing are payable or collectible (as applicable) in Canadian dollars, which could expose us to losses resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates to the extent we have not hedged our position. Canadian real estate and tax laws are complex and subject to change, and we cannot assure you we will always be in compliance with those laws or that compliance will not expose us to additional expense. We may also be subject to fluctuations in Canadian real estate values or markets or the Canadian economy as a whole, which may adversely affect our Canadian investments.Additionally, we have made initial investments in projects located in China and may enter other international markets, which may have similar risks as described above as well as unique risks associated with a specific country. There are risks in owning or financing properties for which the tenant's, mortgagor's or our operations may be impacted by weather conditions and climate change.We have acquired and financed metropolitan ski areas as well as vineyards and wineries, and may continue to do so in the future. The operators of these properties, our tenants or mortgagors, are dependent upon the operations of the properties to pay their rents and service their loans. The ski area operator's ability to attract visitors is influenced by weather conditions and climate change in general, each of which may impact the amount of snowfall during the ski season. Adverse weather conditions may discourage visitors from participating in outdoor activities. In addition, unseasonably warm weather may result in inadequate natural snowfall, which increases the cost of snowmaking, and could render snowmaking wholly or partially ineffective in maintaining quality skiing conditions. Excessive natural snowfall may materially increase the costs incurred for grooming trails and may also make it difficult for visitors to obtain access to the ski resorts. Prolonged periods of adverse weather conditions, or the occurrence of such conditions during peak visitation periods, could have a material adverse effect on the operator's financial results and could impair the ability of the operator to make rental payments or service our loans.The ability to grow quality wine grapes and a sufficient quantity of wine grapes is influenced by weather conditions and climate change. Droughts, freezes and other weather conditions or phenomena, such as “El Nino,” may adversely affect the timing, quality or quantity of wine grape harvests, and this can have a material adverse effect on the operating results of our vineyard and winery operators, as well as the operations of those properties we operate. In addition to 21reduced cash flow from the properties we operate, the ability of our tenants to make rental payments or service our loans could also be impaired. Vineyards and wineries are subject to a number of risks associated with the agricultural industry.Winemaking and wine grape growing are subject to a variety of agricultural risks. In addition to weather, various diseases, pests, fungi and viruses can affect the quality and quantity of wine grapes and negatively impact the profitability of our tenants. Furthermore, wine grape growing requires adequate water supplies. The water needs of our properties are generally supplied through wells and reservoirs located on the properties. Although we believe that there are adequate water supplies to meet the needs of all of our properties, a substantial reduction in water supplies could result in material losses of wine crops and vines. If our tenants or the properties which we operate suffer a downturn due to any of the factors described above, these tenants may be unable to make their lease or loan payments and cash flow from the properties which we operate may be reduced, both of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our tenants and clients and personally identifiable information of our employees, in our facility and on our network. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our network and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence, which could adversely affect our business. Risks That May Affect the Market Price of our SharesWe cannot assure you we will continue paying cash dividends at current rates.Our dividend policy is determined by our Board of Trustees. Our ability to continue paying dividends on our common shares, to pay dividends on our preferred shares at their stated rates or to increase our common share dividend rate will depend on a number of factors, including our liquidity, our financial condition and results of future operations, the performance of lease and mortgage terms by our tenants and customers, our ability to acquire, finance and lease additional properties at attractive rates, and provisions in our loan covenants. If we do not maintain or increase our common share dividend rate, that could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and possibly our preferred shares. Furthermore, if the Board of Trustees decides to pay dividends on our common shares partially or substantially all in common shares, that could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and possibly our preferred shares. Market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our shares.One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our common shares or preferred shares is our dividend rate as a percentage of our share price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher dividend on our common shares or seek securities paying higher dividends or interest.Market prices for our shares may be affected by perceptions about the financial health or share value of our tenants and mortgagors or the performance of REIT stocks generally.To the extent any of our tenants or customers, or their competition, report losses or slower earnings growth, take charges against earnings or enter bankruptcy proceedings, the market price for our shares could be adversely affected. The market price for our shares could also be affected by any weakness in the performance of REIT stocks generally or weakness in any of the sectors in which our tenants and customers operate. Limits on changes in control may discourage takeover attempts which may be beneficial to our shareholders.There are a number of provisions in our Declaration of Trust, Bylaws, Maryland law and agreements we have with others which could make it more difficult for a party to make a tender offer for our shares or complete a takeover of the Company which is not approved by our Board of Trustees. These include:22•a staggered Board of Trustees that can be increased in number without shareholder approval;•a limit on beneficial ownership of our shares, which acts as a defense against a hostile takeover or acquisition of a significant or controlling interest, in addition to preserving our REIT status;•the ability of the Board of Trustees to issue preferred or common shares, to reclassify preferred or common shares, and to increase the amount of our authorized preferred or common shares, without shareholder approval;•limits on the ability of shareholders to remove trustees without cause;•requirements for advance notice of shareholder proposals at shareholder meetings;•provisions of Maryland law restricting business combinations and control share acquisitions not approved by the Board of Trustees;•provisions of Maryland law protecting corporations (and by extension REITs) against unsolicited takeovers by limiting the duties of the trustees in unsolicited takeover situations;•provisions in Maryland law providing that the trustees are not subject to any higher duty or greater scrutiny than that applied to any other director under Maryland law in transactions relating to the acquisition or potential acquisition of control;•provisions of Maryland law creating a statutory presumption that an act of the trustees satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for trustees under Maryland law•provisions in loan or joint venture agreements putting the Company in default upon a change in control; and•provisions of employment agreements with our officers calling for share purchase loan forgiveness (under certain conditions), severance compensation and vesting of equity compensation upon a change in control.Any or all of these provisions could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, even if the change was in our shareholders' interest or offered a greater return to our shareholders.We may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our shareholders.Our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquiring or financing real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by our Board of Trustees. Accordingly, our shareholders do not control these policies.Dilution could affect the value of our shares. Our future growth will depend in part on our ability to raise additional capital. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity securities, the interests of holders of our common shares could be diluted. Likewise, our Board of Trustees is authorized to cause us to issue preferred shares in one or more series, the holders of which would be entitled to dividends and voting and other rights as our Board of Trustees determines, and which could be senior to or convertible into our common shares. Accordingly, an issuance by us of preferred shares could be dilutive to or otherwise adversely affect the interests of holders of our common shares. As of December 31, 2011, our Series C preferred shares are convertible, at each of the holder's option, into our common shares at a conversion rate of 0.3574 common shares per $25.00 liquidation preference, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $69.95 per common share (subject to adjustment in certain events). Additionally, as of December 31, 2011, our Series E preferred shares are convertible, at each of the holder's option, into our common shares at a conversion rate of 0.4512 common shares per $25.00 liquidation preference, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $55.41 per common share (subject to adjustment in certain events). Depending upon the number of Series C and Series E preferred shares being converted at one time, a conversion of Series C and Series E preferred shares could be dilutive to or otherwise adversely affect the interests of holders of our common shares. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may have an impact on the value of our shares.The functional currency for our Canadian operations is the Canadian dollar. As a result, our future operating results could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between U.S. and Canadian dollars, which in turn could affect our share price. We have attempted to mitigate our exposure to Canadian currency exchange risk by having both our Canadian lease rentals and the debt service on our Canadian mortgage financing payable in the same currency. We have also entered into foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge in part our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency derivatives are subject to future risk of loss. We do not engage in purchasing foreign exchange 23contracts for speculative purposes.Additionally, we have made investments in China and may enter other international markets which pose similar currency fluctuation risks as described above. Tax reform could adversely affect the value of our shares.There have been a number of proposals in Congress for major revision of the federal income tax laws, including proposals to adopt a flat tax or replace the income tax system with a national sales tax or value-added tax. Any of these proposals, if enacted, could change the federal income tax laws applicable to REITS, subject us to federal tax or reduce or eliminate the current deduction for dividends paid to our shareholders, any of which could negatively affect the market for our shares.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsThere are no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC required to be disclosed herein as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.