Item 1A. Risk Factors We have a history of operating losses and we may not be able to meet our obligations or continue operating as a going concern without attracting additional capital. We have incurred losses from the years ended December 31, 1999 through the year ended December 31, 2006. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, we reported a net loss of $0.3 million, $0.7 million, $0.7 million, $0.5 million and $6.1 million, respectively. In light of the net operating losses experienced by us, there can be no assurance that we will be profitable. If we are not profitable, we may not be able to meet our obligations or continue operating as a going concern without attracting additional capital. It is also possible that additional capital may not be available to us. If additional capital is required and is not available, enherent may not be able to continue operating as a going concern. Our debt structure may affect our business and restrict its operating flexibility. On April 1, 2005, following the consummation of the merger, we entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated April 1, 2005, among us and Ableco Finance LLC (“Ableco”) as lender and agent (the “Amended Credit Agreement”). The Amended Credit Agreement with Ableco provided us with a three-year extension of the revolving credit facility previously maintained by Dynax, and assumed by enherent in the merger, and an increase in the revolving credit facility from $4.0 million to $6.0 million. The Amended Credit Agreement also amended the terms of the Term Loan B, which was previously maintained by Dynax and was assumed by enherent in the merger. The credit facility is secured by a first lien on all of our tangible and intangible assets. The Term Loan B is secured by a subordinated lien on all of our tangible and intangible assets. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility bear interest at 3% above the greater of: (a) the prime rate; or (b) 7.75% per annum, payable monthly and are limited, in general, to 85% of eligible accounts receivable and 80% of the net amount of unbilled accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2006, the balance outstanding under the revolving credit facility was $2.9 million. The Term Loan B is payable in semi-annual installments of principal of $212,500 commencing October 1, 2007, with such installments increasing to $425,000 on October 1, 2009, together with annual interest at a rate of 3%, to April 1, 2010. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding principal balance of the Term Loan B was $1,700,000. The holders of the enherent preferred stock (the “Preferred Stockholders”) had a redemption right, exercisable at their option, after January 16, 2006, at a value of $1.00 per share. With the consummation of the merger, on April 1, 2005, all of the shares of outstanding preferred stock have been converted in a non-cash exchange for an aggregate of 8,500,000 shares of enherent common stock and four subordinated secured notes in the aggregate principal amount of $1,600,000. According to the terms of three of the promissory notes (having an aggregate principal amount of $1,412,500), 6% interest on the amount outstanding shall be payable in arrears. These three notes have terms of five years and no principal payments shall be owed in the first twenty-nine months ending September 1, 2007. Thereafter, semi-annual principal payments in the amount of $177,000 shall be due for the following two years and for the last year semi-annual principal payments in the amount of $353,000 shall be due. According to the terms of the fourth note in the principal amount of $188,000, no interest is initially charged. This note has a term of two years and quarterly principal payments in the amount of $23,000. We made one installment payment under the terms of this note in 2005. All past due principal bears interest at 12% until paid. The 12% past-due interest rate will be increased by an additional 2% every six months that a past-due amount remains outstanding, such that it will increase to 14% if a past-due amount remains outstanding 5 Table of Contents for six months, 16% if a past-due amount remains outstanding for twelve months, and 18% if a past-due amount remains outstanding for 18 months. The past-due interest rate will never exceed 18%. We have accrued interest on all past-due amounts in accordance with the terms of the note. As of December 31, 2006, $141,000 was past due bearing a blended interest rate of approximately 14%. We entered into an Intercreditor and Subordination Agreement dated April 1, 2005 among us, certain subsidiaries listed therein, Ableco and the Preferred Stockholders to define the rights of and evidence the priorities among those creditors. The credit facility is secured by a first lien on all of our tangible and intangible assets. The Term Loan B and the notes issued to the Preferred Stockholders are secured on a pari passu basis by liens on all of our tangible and intangible assets, which liens are subordinated to the lien securing the credit facility. We have three subordinated notes relating to prior Dynax acquisitions bearing interest rates of between prime and prime plus 1%. As of December 31, 2006, the aggregate balance outstanding was $710,000, representing $457,000 of principal and $253,000 in accrued interest. The acquisition notes are subordinated to Ableco. Any payments of principal or interest on the indebtedness will be subordinated in accordance with the terms and conditions of the senior secured lender. No payments were made subsequent to March 31, 2004. We have a note payable relating to the repurchase of enherent’s Preferred Stock in 2004 bearing interest of 4%. As a result of the repurchase, we are obligated to make principal and interest payments on a three-year $150,000 promissory note. Annual principal payments of $50,000 are due commencing April 15, 2005. As of December 31, 2006, the principal balance outstanding was $50,000. We have compensation payable to a former board chairman of Dynax pursuant to the terms of a separation agreement. Amounts owed under the separation agreement are payable in quarterly installments of $31,000 bearing imputed interest of 8.6% through March 2008. As of December 31, 2006, the balance outstanding was $150,000, net of imputed interest. As of December 31, 2006, the current portion of our long term debt is $3.6 million consisting of the Ableco revolving asset based credit facility of $2.9 million, capital leases of $40,000, compensation payable to the former chairman of Dynax of approximately $115,000, and subordinated notes in the aggregate amount of $603,000. Our current debt structure could: • limit cash flow available for general corporate purposes, such as acquisitions, due to the ongoing cash flow requirements for debt service; • limit our ability to obtain in the future, or obtain on favorable terms, additional debt financing for working capital or acquisitions; • limit our flexibility in reacting to competitive and other changes in our industry and economic conditions generally; • expose us to a risk that a substantial decrease in net operating cash flows due to economic developments or adverse developments in the business could make it difficult to meet debt service requirements; • increase vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and • expose us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because of the variable interest rate of the credit facility, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates. Our ability to repay or to refinance the indebtedness will depend primarily upon our future operating performance, which may be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, business and other 6 Table of Contents factors beyond our control, including those discussed herein. In addition, we cannot assure you that future borrowings or equity financing will be available for the payment or refinancing of any indebtedness we may have. If we are unable to service our indebtedness or maintain covenant compliance, whether in the ordinary course of business or upon acceleration of such indebtedness, we may be forced to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking additional equity capital. There can be no assurances that any of these strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments could trigger prepayment obligations. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and rates. The loss of even one significant client or any significant reduction in the use of our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from large-scale engagements with a limited number of clients. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our five largest customers represented 55.7% of our total revenue. During that period, the five largest customers and their percentages of our total revenue were: Mass Mutual—26.9%; Sikorsky Aircraft—9.2%; IBM—8.5%; New York City Department of Homeless Services—6.6%; and Pfizer—4.5%. The mix of significant clients and their respective percentages will vary for different periods in time due to overall revenue levels, new clients being added and changes in activity within specific accounts. The loss of anyone of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on a limited number of clients results in a significant concentration of credit risk. Due to our dependence on a limited number of clients, we are subject to a concentration of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable. In the case of insolvency by one of our significant clients, accounts receivable with respect to that client might not be collectible, might not be fully collectible or might be collectible over longer than normal terms, each of which could adversely affect enherent’s financial position. As of December 31, 2006, our accounts receivable were $4.3 million. Of this amount, $2.0 million, or 45.3% was due from our five largest customers. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer credit losses in the future. Most of our contracts are terminable by our clients with limited notice and without penalty payments, and early terminations could have a material adverse effect on business, operating results and financial condition. Most of our contracts are terminable by the client following limited notice and without early termination payments or liquidated damages due from them. In addition, each stage of a project often represents a separate contractual commitment, at the end of which the client may elect to delay or not to proceed to the next stage of the project. While, to date, none of our clients have terminated a material contract or materially reduced the scope of a large project, we cannot assure you that one or more of our clients will not take such actions in the future. The delay, cancellation or significant reduction in the scope of a large project or number of projects could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we raise additional capital in the future, our existing stockholders may suffer substantial dilution. We may need to raise additional capital in order to ensure a sufficient supply of cash for continued operations or to finance acquisitions. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. Changes in equity markets over the past five years have adversely affected the ability of companies to raise equity financing and have adversely affected the markets for financing 7 Table of Contents for companies with a history of losses such as ours. Additional financing may require us to take on more debt, including convertible debt, or to issue additional shares of our common stock, or preferred stock convertible into common stock, such that out existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution. Our failure to successfully identify, acquire or integrate new businesses could have a negative effect on our operations; our acquisitions could cause financial difficulties. As part of our business strategy, we evaluate potential acquisitions in the ordinary course, some of which could be material. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or integrate successfully any acquired businesses without substantial expense, delay or other operational or functional problems. Any acquisition would involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: • adverse effects on our reported operating results due to charges to earnings, including impairment charges associated with goodwill and other intangibles; • diversion of management attention from running our businesses; • integration of technology, operations, personnel and financial and other systems; • internal controls over financial reporting of acquired companies may not initially be up to our standards; • increased expenses, including compensation expenses resulting from newly hired employees; • increased foreign operations, often with unique issues relating to corporate culture, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and other challenges; • assumption of known and unknown liabilities and exposure to litigation; • increased levels of debt or dilution of existing shareholders; • potential disputes with the sellers of acquired businesses, technology, services or products; • over-valuation by us of acquired companies; and • insufficient indemnification from the selling parties for legal liabilities incurred by the acquired companies prior to the acquisitions. Our integration activities may place substantial demand on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems. Customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired business, technology, service or product could also have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. In addition, any acquired business, technology, service or product could underperform relative to our expectations. A significant portion of our total assets consists of goodwill, which is subject to a periodic impairment analysis and a significant impairment determination in any future period could have an adverse effect on our results of operations even without a significant loss of revenue or increase in cash expenses attributable to such period. We have goodwill totaling approximately $4.3 million at December 31, 2006 resulting from the merger of Dynax and enherent. We evaluate this goodwill for impairment based on the fair value of the operating business units to which this goodwill relates at least once a year and plan to conduct the next evaluation in conjunction with the preparation of our financial statements for the quarter ending March 31, 2007. This estimated fair value could change if we are unable to achieve operating results at the levels that have been forecasted, the market valuation of those business units decreases based on transactions involving similar companies, or there is a permanent, negative change in the market demand for the services offered by the business units. These changes could result in an impairment of the existing goodwill balance that could require a material non-cash charge to our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents There are risks associated with placing employees and independent contractors at clients’ businesses which could result in costly and time-consuming litigation. We could be subject to liability if any of the following risks associated with placing employees or independent contractors at clients’ businesses occur: • liabilities for errors and omissions by our employees or independent contractors; • injury to client employees; • misappropriation of client property; • possible claims of discrimination and harassment; • misuse of client proprietary information or intellectual property; • torts and other similar claims; or • other criminal activity Our failure to meet clients’ expectations could result in losses or negative publicity and could subject us to liability for the services we provide. Many of our engagements involve services that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. Although we attempt to contractually limit our liability for damages arising from errors, mistakes, omissions or negligent acts in rendering our services, there can be no assurance that our attempts to limit liability will be successful. Additionally, our attempts to contractually reduce liability with many of our largest clients have met with limited success. Our failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations in the performance of our services could result in a material adverse effect on the client’s operations and, therefore, could give rise to claims against us or result in negative publicity damaging our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The existence of vendor management organizations in the information technology market could have a material adverse effect on our business. Over the last seven years, companies contracting with information technology professional services firms have engaged vendor management organizations, or human capital management firms, to assist them in managing and reducing their information technology expenditures. The increased involvement of these vendor management organizations in the information technology industry has caused companies in the information technology industry to face a reduction in preferred vendor status, an increase in competition, a reduction in revenues, and an increase in fees paid to vendor management organizations. In our experience, vendor management organization fees charged to information technology professional services firms typically range from 2% to 5% of those firms’ billing rates. The increased involvement of vendor management organizations in the information technology industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to manage our growth, our profitability may decline. Our profitability will be dependent upon our ability to control our costs and improve our efficiency. We plan to pursue growth. Growth is likely to place significant demands on our management as well as on its administrative, operational and financial resources. As we increase the number of our professionals and execute our strategy for growth, we may not be able to manage a significantly larger and/or more diverse workforce, control our costs or improve our efficiency. Prolonged economic weakness in the information technology services market could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for our services can change rapidly. Market demand for information technology services has stabilized and improved in recent years, but this trend may not continue. Our future growth is dependent upon the 9 Table of Contents information technology services we provide. Demand and market acceptance for information technology services are subject to a high level of uncertainty. Prolonged weakness in the information technology services industry has caused in the past, and may cause in the future, business enterprises to delay or cancel information technology projects, reduce their overall budgets and/or reduce or cancel orders for our services. This, in turn, may lead to longer sales cycles, delays in purchase decisions, payment and collection, and may also result in price pressures, causing us to realize lower revenues and operating margins. If companies cancel or delay their business and technology initiatives or choose to move these initiatives in-house, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The loss of our software or hardware partnerships with IBM would have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business relationship with IBM enables us to reduce our cost of sales and increase win rates through leveraging our partners’ marketing efforts and strong vendor endorsements. The loss of this relationship could increase our sales and marketing costs, lead to longer sales cycles, harm our reputation and brand recognition, reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. In particular, a significant number of our customers for hardware, software and certain services are identified through joint selling opportunities conducted with IBM and through sales leads obtained from our relationship with IBM. The loss of our relationship with, or a significant reduction in the services we perform for IBM, would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We depend on contracts with certain federal and state government agencies for a meaningful portion of our revenue, and if the spending policies or budget priorities of these agencies change, we could lose revenue. The market for certain of our services depends largely on federal and state legislative programs and the budgetary capability to support programs, including the continuance of existing programs. These programs can be modified or amended at any time by acts of federal and state governments. Many government budgets have been adversely impacted by the economic slowdown. Changes in government initiatives or in the level of government spending due to budgetary or deficit considerations may have a significant impact on our future financial performance. Acts of war or terrorism, or related effects could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. An act of war or terrorism could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. For example, in the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, we had customers whose offices were destroyed, which resulted in an interruption in projects and related revenues. Acts of war or terrorism also could result in loss of key employees, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, the related effects of an act of war or terrorism, such as disruptions in air transportation and enhanced security measures may interfere with our ability to provide services to our clients. Finally, an act of war or terrorism may result in a significant reduction in client spending or contribute to an economic downturn and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our failure to continue to recruit and retain qualified information technology professionals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is labor-intensive. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain information technology professionals, who include billable consultants and sales and recruiting professionals. Billable consultants are those employees or independent contractors who possess the necessary technical skills and experience or can be trained to deliver our services. Sales and recruiting professionals are those employees who possess the necessary skills, experience and contacts to sell our services and recruit billable consultants. We are required to continually evaluate, upgrade and supplement our billable consultants to keep pace with changing client needs and technologies and to fill new positions. The IT staffing industry in particular has high turnover rates and is affected by the supply of and demand for qualified information technology professionals. Qualified 10 Table of Contents information technology professionals are in high demand worldwide and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Some of our major customers may also hire our billable consultants. Direct hiring by our customers adversely affects our turnover rate. There can be no assurance that we will continue to have access to qualified information technology professionals, will be successful in retaining current or future information technology professionals or that the cost of employing and subcontracting such information technology professionals will not increase due to shortages. Failure to attract or retain qualified information technology professionals in sufficient numbers or an increase in the turnover rate among our billable consultants could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and operating results may lead to reduced prices for our stock. Our revenues and operating results are subject to significant variation from quarter to quarter and we anticipate that our revenues and operating results will be subject to significant variation depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: (i) the timing and number of client projects commenced (or delayed or terminated by the client) and completed during the quarter, (ii) the number of working days in a quarter and (iii) employee hiring, attrition, vacations and utilization rates. Because a high percentage of our expenses, in particular personnel and facilities costs, will be relatively fixed, variations in revenues may cause significant variations in our operating results. Additionally, we will periodically incur cost increases due to both the hiring of new employees and strategic investments in our infrastructure in anticipation of future projects and opportunities for revenue growth. Quarterly results are likely to fluctuate, which may cause a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The use of fixed-price engagements could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We principally bill for our services on a time-and-materials basis. We sometimes enter into fixed-price billing engagements and may in the future enter into additional engagements billed on a fixed-price basis. While our business, operating results and financial condition have not been materially adversely affected by any failure on our part to complete a fixed-price engagement within budget in the past, any such failure in the future could expose us to risks associated with cost overruns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The information technology services industry is highly competitive and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully. We experience intense competition. The market for information technology services is very broad, and these services are offered by a large number of private and public companies, many of which are significantly larger than, and have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than, we do. Competitors include Albano Systems, Inc., Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, Computer Task Group, iGate Corp, Prolifics and TEKsystems. The trend toward offshore outsourcing, internal expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and continuing technological changes will also result in new and different competitors entering our markets. These competitors may include entrants from the communications, software and data networking industries or entrants in geographic locations with lower costs than those in which we operate. Additionally, in certain sectors of our business, particularly information technology services, there are few barriers to entry and new competitors do and are expected to enter the market. As competitors enter the market to provide services similar to those offered by us, our ability to compete effectively will increasingly depend upon the quality and price of our services. We may not be able to compete effectively, in which case competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The information technology sector is rapidly changing and evolving and failure of enherent to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The information technology services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, shifting client preferences and new product developments. The introduction of competitive information technology solutions 11 Table of Contents embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing information technology solutions, skills base or underlying technologies obsolete or unmarketable. As a result, we will depend in large part upon our ability to develop new information technology solutions and capabilities that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and keep pace with new, competitive service and product offerings and emerging industry standards to achieve broad market acceptance. We cannot assure you that: (i) we will be successful in developing and marketing new information technology solutions that respond to technological changes, shifting client requirements or evolving industry standards; (ii) we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these new information technology solutions; or (iii) our information technology solutions will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Any failure to respond to technological change or evolving industry standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our inability to obtain or retain necessary work permits for foreign workers could increase our cost of recruiting and retaining the requisite number of information technology professionals. We recruit employees from around the world. Some of these employees work in the United States under H-1B, L-1 or TN temporary work permits. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 4% of our employees were working under such temporary work permits in the United States. Although, to date, we have not experienced difficulties in obtaining sufficient H-1B work permits, in the future we may be unable to obtain work permits to bring necessary employees to the United States for any number of reasons including, without limitation, limits set by the Department of Homeland Security or State Department. Continued compliance with existing United States or foreign immigration laws or changes in such laws, making it more difficult to hire foreign nationals or limiting the ability of enherent to retain work permit employees in the United States, could increase our cost of recruiting and retaining the requisite number of information technology professionals, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on our intellectual property rights, which may not be properly protected or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. In order to protect our proprietary rights in our various intellectual properties, we currently rely on copyrights, trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how that may be duplicated by others. We employ various methods, including nondisclosure agreements and other contractual arrangements with employees and suppliers and technical protective measures to protect our proprietary know-how. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our intellectual property, or that we will be able to deter unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. The failure of such protective measures could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that other persons will not independently develop such know-how or obtain access to it, or independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to enherent’s technology. We presently hold no patents or registered copyrights, but we have several registered trademarks for “enherent” and the enherent logo and several registered trademarks for “Dynax” and the Dynax logo. Although we believe that our intellectual property rights, including intellectual property rights licensed from third parties, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we cannot assure you that: (i) such a claim will not be asserted against us in the future; (ii) assertion of such claims will not result in litigation or that we would prevail in such litigation or be able to obtain a license for the use of any infringed intellectual property from a third party on commercially reasonable terms; or (iii) any of our software could be redesigned on an economical basis or at all, or that any such redesigned software would be competitive with the software of our competitors. We expect that the risk of infringement claims against us will increase if more of our competitors are able to successfully obtain patents for software products and processes. Any such claims, regardless of their outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to “penny stock” regulations which could reduce trading activity and liquidity in our common stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks.” Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). Penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC, which specifies information about penny stocks and the nature and significance of risks of the penny stock market. A broker-dealer must also provide the customer with, among other things, bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer, and monthly account statements indicating the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the trading activity in the secondary market for stock that becomes subject to those penny stock rules. Holders of securities subject to the penny stock rules may have difficulty in selling those securities. Recent accounting pronouncements may impact our future financial position and results of operations. There have been new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings that will have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. For instance, in September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 108 (“SAB 108”), which expresses the Staff’s views regarding the process of quantifying financial statement misstatements. The bulletin was effective at fiscal year end 2006. The implementation of this bulletin had no impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (“SFAS 157”). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 will be applied prospectively and will be effective for periods beginning after November 15, 2007. We are currently evaluating the effect, if any, of SFAS 157 on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (“FIN 48”). FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, treatment of interest and penalties, and disclosure of such positions. FIN 48 will be applied prospectively and will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2006. We will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007, as required. The adoption of FIN 48 is not expected to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 