Item 1A. Risk Factors This section describes material risks affecting our business. Risks Related to Our Business The commercial real estate industry has been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets generally. Our business and operations depend on the commercial real estate industry generally, which in turn depends upon broad economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad. Despite some improvements, the U.S. economy is continuing to experience relatively high unemployment and slow growth. A worsening of economic conditions would likely have a negative impact on the commercial real estate industry generally and on our business and operations specifically. Additionally, disruptions in the global economy may also have a negative impact on the commercial real estate market domestically. Adverse conditions in the commercial real estate industry could harm our business and financial condition by, among other factors, reducing the value of our existing assets, limiting our access to debt and equity capital, limiting our ability to originate new commercial real estate debt or acquire or finance investments in real estate and otherwise negatively impacting our operations. Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on outside sources of capital that have been negatively impacted by U.S. and global economic conditions. We require significant outside capital to fund and grow our businesses. A primary source of liquidity for us has been the equity and debt capital markets, including sales of loans to securitizations, repurchase agreements, issuances of common equity, preferred equity and convertible senior notes . Access to the capital markets and other sources of liquidity was severely disrupted during the U.S. recession that began in 2007 and, despite improvements since the end of the recession, the markets could suffer another severe downturn and another liquidity crisis could emerge. If we fail to secure financing on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts our income may be reduced by limiting our ability to originate loans and other investments, reducing our fee income and increasing our financing expense. A reduction in our net income could impair our liquidity and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. For information about our available sources of funds, refer to Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the notes to the consolidated financial statements located in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The price of our common shares and other securities historically has been volatile. This volatility may affect the price at which anyone holding our common shares or other securities could sell them, and the sale of substantial amounts of our common shares or such other securities could adversely affect the price of our common shares or such other securities. 11 Table of Contents The market price for our common shares has varied between a high of $9.06 on December 26, 2013 and a low of $6.18 on August 30, 2013 in the twelve month period ending on March 6, 2014. This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell the common shares. Other securities we have issued have also had volatile market prices. The market prices of our securities are likely to continue to be volatile and the trading volume subject to significant fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the other risk factors discussed in this report; variations in our quarterly operating results from our expectations or those of securities analysts or investors, downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates, and announcement by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. Our reliance on debt to finance investments may require us to make balloon payments upon maturity, upon the exercise of any applicable put rights or otherwise, and an increased risk of loss may reduce our return on investments, reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders and possibly result in the foreclosure of any assets subject to secured financing. We have historically incurred a debt to finance our investments, which could compound losses and reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Our debt service payments could reduce the net income available for distributions to our shareholders and reduce our liquidity available to make distributions to our shareholders each calendar year that are required for REIT qualification. Most of our assets are pledged as collateral for borrowings. In addition, the assets of the securitizations that we consolidate collateralize the debt obligations of the securitizations and are not available to satisfy our other creditors. To the extent that we fail to meet debt service obligations, we risk the loss of some or all of our respective assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy these debt obligations. Currently, our declaration of trust and bylaws do not impose any limitations on the extent to which we may leverage our respective assets. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flows will be insufficient to meet required principal and interest payments and the risk that we will be unable to refinance our indebtedness when it becomes due, or that the terms of such refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our indebtedness. Included in our debt instruments are provisions providing for the lump sum payment of significant amounts of principal, whether upon maturity, upon the exercise of any applicable put rights or otherwise, which we refer to as balloon payments. Most of our debt provides for balloon payments that are payable at maturity. If collateral underlying any secured credit facility we are party to defaults or otherwise fails to meet specified conditions, we may have to repay that facility to the extent it was secured by that collateral. Our ability to make these payments when due will depend upon several factors, which may not be in our control. These factors include our liquidity or our ability to convert assets owned by us into liquidity on or prior to such put or maturity dates and the amount by which we have been able to reduce indebtedness prior to such put or maturity date though exchanges, refinancing, extensions, collateralization or other similar transactions (any of which transactions may also have the effect of reducing liquidity or liquid assets). Our ability to accomplish these goals will be affected by various factors existing at the relevant time, such as the state of the national and regional economies, local real estate conditions, available interest rate levels, the lease terms for and equity in any related collateral, our financial condition and the operating history of the collateral. If we are unable to pay, redeem, restructure, refinance, extend or otherwise enter into transactions to satisfy any of our debt, this could result in defaults under, and acceleration of, our debt and we may be required to sell assets in significant amounts and at times when market conditions are not favorable, which could result in our incurring significant losses. Our issuance of Series D preferred shares with mandatory redemption rights and warrants and share appreciation rights with put rights may increase our risk of loss if we need to satisfy these redemption rights and put rights. We have issued our Series D preferred shares of beneficial interest which provide a holder with redemption rights in defined circumstances and warrants and share appreciation rights which have put rights in defined circumstances. We expect that we may issue additional Series D preferred shares and such warrants and share 12 Table of Contents appreciation rights or similar securities in the future. While these Series D preferred shares and such warrants and share appreciation rights provide that any exercise of such redemption and put rights may be satisfied by RAIT issuing a note, the exercise of these redemption and put rights may adversely affect our liquidity and reduce amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash could have a material effect on our reported financial results. Under Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, which we refer to as ASC 470-20, issued by the Financial Standards Board, or FASB, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer’s economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for all of our currently outstanding senior convertible notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of shareholders’ equity on our consolidated balance sheet and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of these notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the notes to their face amount over the term of these notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period’s amortization of the debt discount and the instrument’s coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common shares and the trading price of these notes. We expect that any notes we may issue in the future that are convertible into our common shares would receive similar accounting treatment. Future sales of our common shares in the public market could lower the market price for our common shares and adversely impact the trading price of the notes. In the future, we may sell additional common shares to raise capital. In addition, a substantial number of our common shares are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of the issued and issuable warrants, or the warrants, described below (see Part II Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources-Series D preferred shares”) and upon conversion of our outstanding senior convertible notes. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common shares. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common shares, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. The exercise of our issued and issuable warrants and conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing common shareholders. The exercise of our issued and issuable warrants and conversion of some or all of our outstanding convertible senior notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of any of our common shares issuable upon such exercise or conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common shares or the anticipation of such exercise or conversion could depress the price of our common shares. We may seek to acquire, redeem, restructure, refinance or otherwise enter into transactions to satisfy our debt which may include any combination of material payments of cash, issuances of our debt and/or equity securities, sales or exchanges of our assets or other methods. From time to time our collateralized debt obligation, or CDO, notes payable and our other indebtedness may trade at discounts to their respective face amounts. In order to reduce future cash interest payments, as well as future principal amounts due upon any applicable put dates, at maturity or upon redemption, or to otherwise benefit RAIT, we may, from time to time, purchase such CDO notes payable or other indebtedness for cash, in exchange for our equity or debt securities, or for any combination of cash and our equity or debt securities, in each case in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, exchange offers and consent solicitations or otherwise. We will evaluate any such transactions in light of then-existing market conditions, contractual 13 Table of Contents restrictions and other factors, taking into account our current liquidity and prospects for future access to capital. The amounts involved in any such transactions, individually or in the aggregate, may be material and may materially reduce our liquidity or reduce or eliminate our ability to convert assets into liquidity. Any material issuances of our equity securities may have a material dilutive effect on our current shareholders. If our securitizations secured primarily by commercial real estate loans, RAIT I and RAIT II, were to fail to meet their performance tests, including over-collateralization requirements, our cash flow would be materially reduced. The terms of the securitizations we have structured generally provide that the principal amount of assets must exceed the principal balance of the related securities issued by them by a certain amount, commonly referred to as “over-collateralization.” The securitization terms provide that, if delinquencies and/or losses exceed specified levels based on the analysis by the rating agencies (or any financial guaranty insurer) of the characteristics of the assets collateralizing the securities issued in the securitization, the required level of over-collateralization may be increased or may be prevented from decreasing as would otherwise be permitted if losses or delinquencies did not exceed those levels. In addition, a failure by a securitization to satisfy an over-collateralization test typically results in accelerated distributions to the holders of the senior debt securities issued by the securitization entity. Our equity holdings and, when we acquire debt interests in securitizations, our debt interests, and our subordinated management fees, if any, are subordinate in right of payment to the other classes of debt securities issued by the securitization entity. Other tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may restrict our ability to receive cash distributions from assets collateralizing the securities issued by the securitization entity or our ability to effectively manage the assets held in the securitizations. We cannot assure you that any performance test will be satisfied. We currently receive a substantial portion of our cash flow from RAIT I and RAIT II through our retained interests in these securitizations and management fees paid to us for managing these securitizations. If either or both of these securitizations were to fail to meet their respective over-collateralization or other tests, our cash flow would be materially reduced. The failure of securitizations in which we hold retained interests collateralized primarily by investment in debt securities, Taberna VIII, and Taberna IX, to meet their performance tests has reduced, and we expect will continue to reduce, the cash flow we receive from these securitizations. Our remaining consolidated securitizations collateralized primarily by investments in debt securities, Taberna VIII and Taberna IX, have not passed some of their performance tests. As a consequence, distributions to senior debt have been accelerated, resulting in the cessation of distributions on the subordinated debt and equity we hold in these securitizations as well as our subordinated management fees from these securitizations. This has substantially reduced the cash flow we receive from these securitizations. Because we do not expect these securitizations will meet these tests for the foreseeable future, we expect that our cash flows from these transactions will remain limited to the senior management fees received from them. We receive collateral management fees pursuant to collateral management agreements for services we provide as the collateral manager of RAIT I, RAIT II, Taberna Preferred Funding I, Ltd., or Taberna I, Taberna VIII and Taberna IX. If a collateral management agreement is terminated or if the securities serving as collateral for a securitization are prepaid or go into default, the collateral management fees will be reduced or eliminated. We receive collateral management fees pursuant to collateral management agreements for acting as the collateral manager of RAIT I, RAIT II, Taberna I, Taberna VIII and Taberna IX. If all the notes issued by one of those securitizations are redeemed, or if the collateral management agreement is otherwise terminated, we will no longer receive collateral management fees from that securitization. In general, a collateral management agreement may be terminated both with and without cause at the direction of holders of a specified supermajority in principal amount of the notes issued by the securitization. Furthermore, such fees are based on the total 14 Table of Contents amount of collateral held by the securitizations. If the assets serving as collateral for a securitization are prepaid or go into default, we will receive lower collateral management fees than expected or the collateral management fees may be eliminated. In addition, collateral management agreements typically provide that if certain over-collateralization tests are failed, the collateral management agreement may be terminated by a vote of the security holders resulting in our loss of management fees from these securitizations. If any of our securitizations fail to meet over-collateralization tests relevant to the securitization’s most senior existing debt, an event of default may occur. Upon an event of default, our ability to manage the securitization may be terminated and our ability to attempt to cure any defaults in the securitization would be limited, which would increase the likelihood of a reduction or elimination of cash flow and returns to us in those securitizations for an indefinite time. We receive servicing and special servicing fees pursuant to a servicing agreement with our consolidated securitization, RAIT 2013-FL1 Trust, or RAIT FL1, for services we provide as the servicer and special servicer of RAIT FL1 and expect to enter into similar agreements in the future with respect to future similar securitizations . If this or any similar servicing agreement is terminated or if the loans serving as collateral for a securitization are prepaid or go into default, the servicing fees will be reduced or eliminated. We receive servicing fees pursuant to a servicing agreement for acting as the servicer and special servicer of RAIT FL1. If all the notes issued by RAIT FL1 are redeemed, or if the servicing agreement is otherwise terminated, we will no longer receive servicing fees from RAIT FL1. In general, the servicing agreement may be terminated upon the occurrence of a termination event, which includes our failure to remit required payments, make required advances, material breaches of covenants or representations, defined bankruptcy and insolvency events and a ratings downgrade citing servicing concerns as a material factor. Furthermore, such fees are based on the total amount of collateral held by the securitization. If the assets serving as collateral for a securitization are prepaid or go into default, we will receive lower servicing fees than expected or the servicing fees may be eliminated. We may enter into additional similar servicing agreements in the future in connection with future securitizations. We receive advisory fees pursuant to an advisory agreement, or the IRT advisory agreement, with IRT for advisory services we provide as the external advisor of IRT. If this advisory agreement is terminated, the advisory fees will be reduced or eliminated. The IRT advisory agreement provides that IRT may terminate the IRT advisory agreement for cause only upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of IRT’s independent directors or a majority of IRT’s outstanding common stock or a change of control of RAIT or IRT’s advisor (each as defined in the IRT advisory agreement) if a majority of IRT’s independent directors determine that such a change of control of RAIT or IRT’s advisor is materially detrimental to IRT. If IRT terminates the agreement without cause, or if IRT’s advisor terminates the agreement because of a material breach of the agreement by IRT or as a result of a change of control of IRT, IRT must pay IRT”s advisor a termination fee. If the IRT advisory agreement is terminated, the advisory fees will be reduced or eliminated, even if such termination results in the payment of a termination fee. Our investments in securitizations are exposed to greater uncertainty and risk of loss than investments in higher grade securities in these securitizations. When we securitize assets such as commercial mortgage loans, mezzanine loans and TruPS, the various tranches of investment grade and non-investment grade debt obligations and equity securities have differing priorities and rights to the cash flows of the underlying assets being securitized. We structured our securitization transactions to enable us to place debt and equity securities with investors in the capital markets at various pricing levels based on the credit position created for each tranche of debt and equity securities. The higher rated debt tranches have priority over the lower rated debt securities and the equity securities issued by the particular securitization entity with respect to payments of interest and principal using the cash flows from the collateral 15 Table of Contents assets. The relative cost of capital increases as each tranche of capital becomes further subordinated, as does the associated risk of loss if cash flows from the assets are insufficient to repay fully interest and principal or pay dividends. Since we own in many cases the “BBB,” “BB,” “B” and unrated debt and equity classes of securitizations, we are in a “first loss” position because the rights of the securities that we hold are subordinate in right of payment and in liquidation to the rights of higher rated debt securities issued by the securitization entities. Accordingly, we have incurred and may in the future incur significant losses when investing in these securities. In the event of default, we may not be able to recover all of our respective investments in these securities. In addition, we may experience significant losses if the underlying portfolio has been overvalued or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest, principal and dividend payments due on the related securities. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than higher rated investments, but are more sensitive to economic downturns or developments specific to a particular issuer. Current credit market conditions have caused a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors on the underlying assets to make principal, interest and dividend payments may be impaired. In addition, existing credit support in a number of the securitizations in which we have invested have been, and may in the future be, insufficient to protect us against loss of our investments in these securities. A number of the securitizations in which we have invested have suffered events of default or other events resulting in the termination for the foreseeable future of any distributions on the subordinated securities we hold. Representations and warranties made by us in connection with loan sales to securitization vehicles may subject us to liability that could result in loan losses and could harm our operating results and, therefore distributions we make to our shareholders. In connection with loan sales to securitization vehicles, we are required to make representations and warranties regarding, among other things, the borrowers, guarantors, collateral, originators and servicers of the loans sold to the depositor of such assets into securitization trusts. In the event of a breach of such representations or warranties, we may be required to repurchase the affected loans at their face value or otherwise make payments to the owner of the loan. While we may have recourse to loan originators (if not us), borrowers, guarantors and/or other third parties whose representations, warranties, certifications, reports and/or other statements or work product we relied upon in making our representations and warranties, there can be no guaranty that such parties will be able to fully or partially cover any liability we may have in such circumstances. Furthermore, if we discover, prior to the securitization of an asset, that there is any fraud or misrepresentation with respect to the origination of such asset by a third party and are unable to force that third party to repurchase the loan, then we may not be able to sell the loan to a securitization or we may have to sell it at a discount. In any such case, we may incur losses and our cash flows may be impaired. Our financing arrangements contain covenants that restrict our operations, and any default under these arrangements would inhibit our ability to grow our business, increase revenue and pay distributions to our shareholders. Our financing arrangements contain restrictions, covenants and events of default. Failure to meet or satisfy any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. These agreements may contain cross- default provisions so that an event of default under one agreement will trigger an event of default under other agreements. Defaults generally give our lenders the right to declare all amounts outstanding under their particular credit agreement to be immediately due and payable, and enforce their rights by foreclosing on or otherwise liquidating collateral pledged under these agreements. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or to engage in other business activities. Furthermore, our default under any of our financing arrangements could materially reduce our liquidity and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. 16 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive market which may harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Historically, we have been subject to significant competition in all of our business lines. We compete with many third parties engaged in finance and real estate investment activities, including other REITs, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms and broker-dealers, property managers, investment advisers, lenders, governmental bodies and other entities. Some of these competitors have, or in the future may have, substantially greater financial resources than we do and generally may be able to accept more risk. As such, they have the ability to make larger loans and to reduce the risk of loss from any one loan by having a more diversified loan portfolio. They may also enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of, and greater access to, capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. An increase in the general availability of funds to lenders, or a decrease in the amount of borrowing activity, may increase competition for making loans and may reduce obtainable yields or increase the credit risk inherent in the available loans. Competition may limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us. It may also result in higher prices, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs, making it more difficult for us to acquire new investments on attractive terms and reducing the fee income we realize from the origination, structuring and management of securitizations. It may also make it more difficult to obtain appreciation interests and increase the price, and thus reduce potential yields, on discounted loans we acquire. We face significant competition in our investments in real estate from other owners, operators and developers of properties, many of which own properties similar to ours in markets where we operate. Such competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and reduce the rents we are able to charge. These competing properties may have vacancy rates higher than our properties, which may result in their owners being willing to rent space at lower rental rates than we would or providing greater tenant improvement allowances or other leasing concessions. This combination of circumstances could adversely affect our revenues and financial performance. Loss of our management team or the ability to attract and retain key employees could harm our business. The real estate finance business is very labor-intensive. We depend on our management team to manage our investments and attract customers for financing by, among other things, developing relationships with issuers, financial institutions and others. The market for skilled personnel is highly competitive and has historically experienced a high rate of turnover. Due to the nature of our business, we compete for qualified personnel not only with companies in our business, but also in other sectors of the financial services industry. Competition for qualified personnel may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract or retain qualified personnel at reasonable costs or at all. If we are unable to attract or retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel at manageable costs, it could impair our ability to manage our investments and execute our investment strategies successfully, thereby reducing our earnings. Our board of trustees may change our policies without shareholder consent. Our board of trustees reviews our policies developed by management and, in particular, our investment policies. Our board of trustees may amend our policies or approve transactions that deviate from these policies without a vote of or notice to our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market price of our shares and our ability to make distributions. Our board of trustees cannot take any action to disqualify us as a REIT or to otherwise revoke our election to be taxed as a REIT without the approval of a majority of our outstanding voting shares. 17 Table of Contents Our organizational documents do not limit our ability to enter into new lines of business, and we may enter into new businesses, make future strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. Our organizational documents do not limit us to our current business lines. Accordingly, we may pursue growth through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures, which may include entering into new lines of business. In addition, we expect opportunities will arise to acquire other companies, including REITs, managers of investment products or originators of real estate debt. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, enter into joint ventures, or enter into a new line of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with: • the required investment of capital and other resources, • the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk, • combining or integrating operational and management systems and controls and • compliance with applicable regulatory requirements including those required under the Internal Revenue Code and the Investment Company Act. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. If a new business generates insufficient revenue or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputation damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. We engage in transactions with related parties and our policies and procedures regarding these transactions may be insufficient to address any conflicts of interest that may arise. Under our code of business conduct, we have established procedures regarding the review, approval and ratification of transactions which may give rise to a conflict of interest between us and any employee, officer, trustee, their immediate family members, other businesses under their control and other related persons. In the ordinary course of our business operations, we have ongoing relationships and have engaged in transactions with several related entities. These procedures do not guarantee that all potential conflicts will be identified, reviewed or sufficiently addressed. Our transactions with, and investments in, certain securitization vehicles may create perceived or actual conflicts of interest. We have engaged in transactions with, and invested in, certain of the securitization vehicles under which we also serve as collateral manager, and may do so in the future. These transactions have included, and may include in the future, surrendering for cancellation notes we hold issued by these vehicles and exchanges of our or others’ securities with these vehicles for assets collateralizing these vehicles. In addition, we have previously, and may in the future, purchase investments in these vehicles that are senior or junior to, or have rights and interests different from or adverse to, other investors or credit support providers in the debt or other securities of such securitization vehicles. Such situations may create perceived or actual conflicts of interest between us and such other investors or credit support providers for such investors. Our interests in such transactions and investments may conflict with the interests of such other investors or credit support providers at the time of origination or in the event of a default or restructuring of a securitization vehicle or underlying assets. Furthermore, if we are involved in structuring the securitization vehicles or such securitization vehicles are structured as our subsidiaries, then our managers may have conflicts between us and other entities managed by them that purchase debt or other securities in such securitization vehicles with regard to setting subordination 18 Table of Contents levels, determining interest rates, pricing the securities, providing for divesting or deferring distributions that would otherwise be made to equity interests, or otherwise setting the amounts and priorities of distributions to the holders of debt and equity interests in the securitization vehicles. Although we seek to make decisions with respect to our securitization vehicles in a manner that we believe is fair and consistent with the operative legal documents governing these vehicles, perceived or actual conflicts may create dissatisfaction among the other investors in such vehicles or litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and our reputation could be damaged if we fail to deal appropriately with one or more perceived or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, such conflicts of interest could materially adversely affect our ability to manage or generate income or cash flow from our securitizations business, cause harm to our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract investors for future vehicles. The organization and management of IRT may create conflicts of interest. Our subsidiary serves as the external advisor of IRT. IRT currently holds, or may hold in the future, assets that we determine should be acquired by it and doing so may create conflicts of interest, including between investors in IRT and our shareholders, since many investment opportunities that are suitable for us may also be suitable for IRT. Additionally, our management and other real estate and debt finance professionals may face conflicts of interest in allocating their time among RAIT and IRT. Although as a company we will seek to make these decisions in a manner that we believe is fair and consistent with the operative legal documents governing us and IRT, including our investment allocation policy, the transfer or allocation of these assets may give rise to investor dissatisfaction or litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest would have a material adverse effect on our reputation which would materially adversely affect our ability to manage or generate income or cash flow from IRT. We are exposed to loss if lenders under our repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities or other short-term debt liquidate the portfolio assets collateralizing or otherwise providing credit support for such debt. Moreover, assets financed by us pursuant to our repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities or other short-term debt may not be suitable for refinancing through, or sales to, future securitization transactions, which may require us to seek more costly financing for these assets, to liquidate assets or to repurchase these assets . We have entered into repurchase agreements, and may in the future enter into other repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities or other short term debt with similar terms. Our lenders have the right under our current repurchase agreements, and may have the right under such other debt, to liquidate assets acquired thereunder upon the occurrence of certain events, such as an event of default. We are exposed to loss if the proceeds received by the lender upon any such liquidation are insufficient to satisfy our obligation to the lender. We are also subject to the risk that the assets subject to such repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities or other debt with similar terms might not be suitable for refinancing through, or sales to, future securitization transactions. If we were unable to refinance these assets through, or sell these assets to, future securitization transactions, we might be required to seek more costly financing for these assets, to liquidate assets or to repurchase assets under time constraints that may not produce the optimal return to us. We will lose money on our repurchase transactions if the counterparty to the transaction defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term, or if the value of the underlying security has declined as of the end of the term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement. When we engage in a repurchase transaction, we generally sell securities to the transaction counterparty and receive cash from the counterparty. The counterparty must resell the securities back to us at the end of the term of the transaction. Because the cash we receive from the counterparty when we initially sell the securities to the counterparty is less than the market value of those securities, if the counterparty defaults on its obligation to 19 Table of Contents resell the securities back to us we will incur a loss on the transaction. We will also incur a loss if the value of the underlying securities has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as we will have to repurchase the securities for their initial value but would receive securities worth less than that amount. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could reduce our earnings, and thus our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Our financing of our REIT qualifying assets with repurchase agreements and warehouse facilities could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We have entered into and intend to enter into, sale and repurchase agreements under which we nominally sell certain REIT qualifying assets to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. We believe that we will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as the owners of the assets that are the subject of any such agreement notwithstanding that we may transfer record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that we did not own the assets during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case our ability to qualify as a REIT would be adversely affected because it would reduce the amount of assets that helps us meet relevant REIT asset tests. Similarly, if any of our REIT qualifying assets are subject to a repurchase agreement and are sold by the counterparty in connection with a margin call, the loss of those assets could impair our ability to qualify as a REIT because it would reduce the amount of assets that helps us meet relevant REIT asset tests. Accordingly, unlike other REITs, we may be subject to additional risk regarding our ability to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT. If we deconsolidate any of RAIT I, RAIT II, RAIT FL1, Taberna VIII or Taberna IX or IRT, it may have a material effect on our financial statements. Our consolidated financial statements reflect our accounts and the accounts of our majority-owned and/or controlled subsidiaries and of entities that are variable interest entities, or VIEs, where we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of such entities in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 810, “Consolidation.” If we were to cease serving as the collateral manager or servicer for any of RAIT I, RAIT II, RAIT FL1, Taberna VIII or Taberna IX and/or if we determined that our retained interests in any such securitizations no longer made us its primary beneficiary, our determination to consolidate such securitization could change. If we deconsolidate any of these securitizations for these or any other reasons, such deconsolidation would have a material effect on our financial statements, including a material reduction of our assets, liabilities, equity and income. Similarly, IRT’s securities offerings have resulted in our holding a minority interest in IRT, while we remain the largest single shareholder. If we held minority interests, if we were to cease serving as the advisor for IRT for any reason and/or if we determined that our retained interests in IRT no longer made us its primary beneficiary that could affect our determination to consolidate IRT. We have contributed a substantial amount of assets to IRT and may make similar transfers of our assets in the future and IRT has acquired other assets and otherwise engage in significant activity while we consolidate it. If we deconsolidate IRT for these or any other reasons, such deconsolidation may have a material effect on our financial statements, including a material reduction of our assets, liabilities, equity and income. Quarterly results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore, you should not rely on past quarterly results to be indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among others, variations in our investment origination volume, variations in the timing of repayments of debt financing, variations in the amount of time between our receipt of the proceeds of a securities offering and our investment of those proceeds in loans or real estate, market conditions that result in increased cost of funds or material fluctuations in the fair value of our assets and liabilities, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, general economic conditions and other factors referred to elsewhere in this section. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Investments Our reserves for loan losses may prove inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We maintain loan loss reserves to protect against potential losses and conduct a review of the adequacy of these reserves on a quarterly basis. Our general loan loss reserve reflects management’s then-current estimation of the probability and severity of losses within our portfolio, based on this quarterly review. In addition, our determination of asset-specific loan loss reserves relies on material estimates regarding the fair value of loan collateral. Estimation of ultimate loan losses, provision expenses and loss reserves is a complex and subjective process. As such, there can be no assurance that management’s judgment will prove to be correct and that reserves will be adequate over time to protect against potential future losses. Such losses could be caused by factors including, but not limited to, unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific assets, borrowers, industries in which our borrowers operate or markets in which our borrowers or their properties are located. If our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate we may suffer additional losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operations. We may not realize gains or income from investments and have realized, and may continue to realize, losses from some of our investments, including our portfolio of debt securities. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation. However, our investments may not appreciate in value and, in fact, a substantial portion of our investments have declined, and may continue to decline, in value. In addition, some of the financings that we originated and the loans and securities in which we invest have defaulted, and may continue to be in default on interest and/or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains or income from investments and may realize losses. Any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Any income that we realize may not be sufficient to offset our respective expenses. Our portfolio of debt securities has been adversely affected by, and may continue to be adversely affected by, economic developments affecting the business sectors in which our borrowers operate, including homebuilders, residential mortgage providers, commercial mortgage providers, office, specialty finance, retail, hospitality and storage, resulting in a substantial reduction in their fair value which adversely affects our financial performance and has substantially decreased the cash flow we receive from the securitizations holding debt securities. We cannot assure you that the fair value we reflect for any asset or liability in any particular reporting period will not change adversely in a subsequent reporting period. Uninsured and underinsured losses may affect the value of, or our return from, our real estate. Our properties, and the properties underlying our loans, have comprehensive insurance in amounts we believe are sufficient to permit the replacement of the properties in the event of a total loss, subject to applicable deductibles. There are, however, certain types of losses, such as earthquakes, sinkholes, floods, hurricanes and terrorism that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Also, inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might make it impractical to use insurance proceeds to replace a damaged or destroyed property. If any of these or similar events occurs, it may reduce our return from an affected property and the value of our investment. Real estate with environmental problems may create liability for us. The existence of hazardous or toxic substances on a property will adversely affect its value and our ability to sell or borrow against the property. Contamination of real estate by hazardous substances or toxic wastes not only may give rise to a lien on that property to assure payment of the cost of remediation, but also can result in liability to us as owner, operator or lender for that cost. Many environmental laws can impose liability whether we know of, or are responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances 21 Table of Contents from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses, and may materially limit our use of our properties and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, future or amended laws, or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing environmental requirements, may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Our investment portfolio may have material geographic, sector, property-type and sponsor concentrations. We may have material geographic concentrations related to our investments in commercial real estate loans and properties. The REITs and real estate operating companies in whose securities we invest in may also have material geographic concentrations related to their investments in real estate, loans secured by real estate or other investments. We also have material concentrations in the property types that comprise our commercial loan portfolio and in the industry sectors that comprise our unsecured securities portfolio. We also have material concentrations in the sponsors of properties that comprise our commercial loan portfolio. Where we have any kind of concentration risk in our investments, an adverse development in that area of concentration could reduce the value of our investment and our return on that investment and, if the concentration affects a material amount of our investments, impair our ability to execute our investment strategies successfully, reduce our earnings and reduce our ability to make distributions. Our due diligence efforts before making an investment may not identify all the risks related to that investment. Before originating a loan or investment for, or making a loan to or investment in, an entity, we will assess the strength and skills of the entity’s management and other factors that we believe will determine the success of the loan or investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we expect to rely on available resources and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. As a result, there can be no assurance that the due diligence processes we conduct will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. Our investments are relatively illiquid which may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises and any sales may be at a loss to us. Our commercial real estate loans and our investments in real estate are relatively illiquid investments and we may be unable to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions or dispose of these assets quickly or at all in the event we need additional liquidity. We make and hold investments in securities issued by private companies and other illiquid investments. A portion of these investments may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises and may impair the value of these investments. Any sales of investments we make may result in our recognizing a loss on the sale. Our subordinated real estate investments such as mezzanine loans and preferred equity interests in entities owning real estate involve increased risk of loss. We invest in mezzanine loans and other forms of subordinated financing, such as investments consisting of preferred equity interests in entities owning real estate. Because of their subordinate position, these subordinated investments carry a greater credit risk than senior lien financing, including a substantially greater risk of non-payment. If a borrower defaults on our subordinated investment or on debt senior to us, our subordinated investment will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid off, which may result in our being unable to recover the full amount, or any, of our investment. A decline in the real estate market could reduce the value of the property so that the aggregate outstanding balances of senior liens may exceed the value of the underlying property. Where debt senior to our investment exists, the presence of inter-creditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through “standstill” 22 Table of Contents periods) and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Bankruptcy and borrower litigation can significantly increase the time needed for us to acquire the underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value. In addition, there are significant costs and delays associated with the foreclosure process. In the event of a default on a senior loan, we may elect to make payments, if we have the right to do so, in order to prevent foreclosure on the senior loans. When we originate or acquire a subordinated investment, we may not have the right to service senior loans. The servicers of the senior loans are responsible to the holders of those loans, whose interests will likely not coincide with ours, particularly in the event of a default. Accordingly, the senior loans may not be serviced in a manner advantageous to us. It is also possible that, in some cases, a “due on sale” clause included in a senior mortgage, which accelerates the amount due under the senior mortgage in case of the sale of the property, may apply to the sale of the property if we foreclose, increasing our risk of loss. We have loans that are not collateralized by recorded or perfected liens on the real estate underlying our loans. Some of the loans not collateralized by liens are secured instead by deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure, also known as “pocket deeds.” A deed-in-lieu of foreclosure is a deed executed in blank that the holder is entitled to record immediately upon a default in the loan. Loans that are not collateralized by recorded or perfected liens are subordinate not only to existing liens encumbering the underlying property, but also to future judgments or other liens that may arise as well as to the claims of general creditors of the borrower. Moreover, filing a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure with respect to these loans will usually constitute an event of default under any related senior debt. Any such default would require us to assume or pay off the senior debt in order to protect our investment. Furthermore, in a borrower’s bankruptcy, we will have materially fewer rights than secured creditors and, if our loan is secured by equity interests in the borrower, fewer rights than the borrower’s general creditors. Our rights also will be subordinate to the lien-like rights of the bankruptcy trustee. Moreover, enforcement of our loans against the underlying properties will involve a longer, more complex, and likely, more expensive legal process than enforcement of a mortgage loan. In addition, we may lose lien priority in many jurisdictions, to persons who supply labor and materials to a property. For these and other reasons, the total amount that we may recover from one of our investments may be less than the total amount of that investment or our cost of an acquisition of an investment. We may not control the special servicing of the mortgage loans or other debt underlying the debt securities in which we invest and, in such cases, the special servicer may take actions that could adversely affect our interest. In circumstances where we do not maintain a first mortgage position, overall control over the special servicing of the mortgage loans or other debt underlying the debt securities in which we invest may be held by a directing certificate holder which is typically appointed by the holders of the most subordinate class of such debt security then outstanding. We ordinarily do not have the right to appoint the directing certificate holder. In connection with the servicing of the specially serviced loans, the related special servicer may, at the direction of the directing certificate holder, take actions that could adversely affect our interest. Acquisitions of discounted loans may involve increased risk of loss. We may acquire existing loans at a discount from both the outstanding balances of the loans and the appraised value of the properties underlying the loans. These loans typically are in default under the original loan terms or other requirements and are subject to forbearance agreements. A forbearance agreement typically requires a borrower to pay to the lender all revenue from a property after payment of the property’s operating expenses in return for the lender’s agreement to withhold exercising its rights under the loan documents. Acquiring loans at a discount involves a substantially higher degree of risk of non-collection than loans that conform to institutional underwriting criteria. We do not acquire a loan unless material steps have been taken toward resolving problems with the loan, or its underlying property. 23 Table of Contents Financing with high loan-to-value ratios may involve increased risk of loss. A loan-to-value ratio is the ratio of the amount of our financing, plus the amount of any senior indebtedness, to the appraised value of the property underlying the loan. We expect to continue to hold loans with high loan-to-value ratios. By reducing the margin available to cover fluctuations in property value, a high loan-to-value ratio increases the risk that, upon default, the amount obtainable from the sale of the underlying property may be insufficient to repay the financing. Preferred equity investments in REITs and real estate operating companies may involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing and specific risks relating to particular issuers. We have invested, and may continue to invest in preferred securities of REITs and real estate operating companies, depending upon our ability to finance such assets directly or indirectly in accordance with our financing strategy. Preferred equity investments involve a higher degree of risk than traditional debt financing due to a variety of factors, including that such investments are subordinate to debt and are not secured by property underlying the investment. Furthermore, should an issuer of preferred equity default on our investment, we would only be able to proceed against the issuer, and not the property owned by the issuer. In most cases, a preferred equity holder has no recourse against an issuer for a failure to pay stated dividends; rather, unpaid dividends typically accrue and the preferred shareholder maintains a liquidation preference in the event of a liquidation of the issuer of the preferred securities. An issuer may not have sufficient assets to satisfy any liquidation preference to which we may be entitled. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investments in preferred equity securities. The commercial mortgage loans in which we invest and the commercial mortgage loans underlying the CMBS in which we invest are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us that may result in reduced earnings or losses and reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We hold substantial portfolios of commercial mortgage loans and CMBS which are secured by multi-family or other commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure. The ability of a borrower to repay a non-recourse loan secured by an income-producing property typically depends primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things: tenant mix, success of tenant businesses, property management decisions, property location and condition, competition from comparable types of properties, changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged, any need to address environmental contamination at the property, the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, declines in regional or local real estate values, declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. In the event of any default under a commercial mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a commercial mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a commercial mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process, which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. CMBS evidence interests in or are secured by a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. Accordingly, the mortgage-backed securities in which we invest are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. 24 Table of Contents If we are unable to improve the performance of commercial real estate properties we take control of in connection with restructurings, workouts and foreclosures of investments, our financial performance may be adversely affected. We have taken control of properties underlying our commercial real estate investments in connection with restructurings, workouts and foreclosures of these investments. If we are unable to improve the performance of these properties from their performance under their prior owners, our cash flow may be adversely affected if the properties’ cash flow is insufficient to support payments due on any related debt and we may not be able to sell these properties at a price that will allow us to recover our investment. We may need to make significant capital improvements to our properties in order to remain competitive. Our investments in real estate may face competition from newer, more updated properties. In order to remain competitive, we may need to make significant capital improvements to these properties. In addition, if we need to re-lease a property, we may need to make significant tenant improvements. Any financing of such improvements may reduce our ability to operate the property profitably and, if financing is not available, we may be use our available cash resources which would reduce our cash flow, liquidity and ability to make distributions to shareholders. Lease expirations, lease defaults and lease terminations may adversely affect our revenue. Lease expirations, lease defaults and lease terminations may result in reduced revenue from our real estate if the lease payments received from replacement tenants are less than the lease payments received from the expiring, defaulting or terminating tenants. In addition, lease defaults by one or more significant tenants, lease terminations by tenants following events causing significant damage to the property or takings by eminent domain, or the failure of tenants under expiring leases to elect to renew their leases, could cause us to experience long periods with reduced or no revenue from a property and to incur substantial capital expenditures in order to obtain replacement tenants. See Item 2-“Properties,” for a ten-year lease expiration schedule for our non-residential properties as of December 31, 2013. Risks Relating to the Fair Value of Our Assets and Liabilities A decline in the market value of the assets we finance pursuant to repurchase agreements or warehouse facilities may result in margin calls that may force us to sell assets under adverse market conditions. Our current repurchase agreements allow, and we expect any warehouse facilities and repurchase agreements we enter into in the future to allow, our lender to make margin calls that would require us to make cash payments or deliver additional assets to our lender in the event that there is a decline in the market value of the assets that collateralize our repurchase agreements or debt under our warehouse facilities. As a result, a decline in the market value of assets collateralizing any such debt may result in our lenders initiating margin calls and requiring a pledge of additional collateral or cash. Posting additional collateral or cash to support our borrowings would reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets, which could adversely affect our business. As a result, we could be forced to sell some of our assets in order to maintain liquidity. Forced sales typically result in lower sales prices than do market sales made in the normal course of business. If our investments were liquidated at prices below the amortized cost basis of such investments, we would incur losses, which could result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition. A portion of our assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our management and, as a result, there may be uncertainty as to the value of these investments. We reflect certain investments in securities, certain CDO notes payable, certain derivative instruments and other assets and liabilities at fair value in our balance sheet, with all changes in fair value recorded in earnings. Most of these investments are securities or other assets that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. For further discussion of the 25 Table of Contents fair value of our financial instruments, see Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Fair Value of Financial Investments.” We value these investments quarterly at fair value. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and are based on assumptions and estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these investments existed. If our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments are not realized, we could record a loss upon their disposal. When we acquire properties through the foreclosure of commercial real estate loans, we may recognize losses if the fair value of the property internally determined upon such acquisition is less than the previous carrying amount of the foreclosed loan. We periodically acquire properties through the foreclosure of commercial real estate loans. Upon acquisition, we value the property and its related assets and liabilities. We determine the fair values based primarily upon discounted cash flow or capitalization rate models, the use of which requires critical assumptions including discount rates, capitalization rates, vacancy rates and growth rates based, in part, on the properties’ operating history and third party data. We may recognize losses if the fair value of the property internally determined upon acquisition is less than the previous carrying amount of the foreclosed loan. The fair value of assets that we record at their fair value under the fair value option may decline, which may decrease our net income. The fair value of investments that we record on our financial statements at their fair value under FASB ASC Topic 825, may decline, which may decrease our net income. These investments consist primarily of our portfolio of TruPS and subordinated debentures. The fair value of our CDO notes payable issued by our consolidated securitizations, Taberna VIII and Taberna IX, has declined more significantly than the fair value of the assets collateralizing those securitizations and, if the fair value of the CDO notes payable increases to approximate that of the underlying assets or if the CDO notes payable are repaid at their par amount, that would materially reduce our earnings and shareholders’ equity. Through December 31, 2013 the cumulative effect of the fair value adjustments recorded on each financial asset and liability selected for the fair value option resulted in a net increase in shareholders’ equity of $87.0 million, principally as a result of adjustments in the fair value of our CDO notes payable and other liabilities. This increase in shareholders’ equity has reversed, and may continue to reverse, through earnings as an unrealized loss in the future. For example, our CDO notes payable have recovered, and may continue to recover, some or all of their value sooner than any recovery of the value of the securities collateralizing them, the net difference in the respective recoveries has materially reduced, and may continue to reduce, earnings and our shareholders’ equity. Under current market conditions and the volatility in interest rates and the credit performance of our underlying collateral, we cannot assure you that there will not be further significant fluctuations in the fair value of our assets and liabilities, which could materially reduce earnings and our shareholders’ equity. At December 31, 2013, our total investment in Taberna VIII and Taberna IX is approximately $248.7 million which represents both preferred equity and various levels of debt positions. Approximately 86.2% of the investments are in the form of TruPS and TruPS related receivables issued by commercial real estate companies. The typical TruPS instruments are unsecured borrowings with a 30 year maturity and a 5 year no-call provision that prevented prepayments. Beginning in 2012, the no-call provisions for TruPS collateralizing Taberna VIII and Taberna IX started to expire and the TruPS issuers have the option to prepay the instruments on which the no-call provisions have expired. Given the historically low interest rate environment in comparison to when the collateral was originated, together with improving performance for some of these TruPS issuers, we expect some of the TruPS issuers will elect to prepay their TruPS. We expect to use any prepayments to repay the most senior tranches of the non-recourse CDO notes payable issued by Taberna VIII and Taberna IX in 26 Table of Contents accordance with the terms of their respective indentures. We carry these CDO notes payable at their fair value on our financial statements, which is currently lower than the amount due thereunder, and any negative difference between the amount paid and the carrying amount may result in incremental non-cash charges to our GAAP earnings. Interest rate changes may reduce the value of our investments. Changes in interest rates affect the market value of our investment portfolio. In general, the market value of a loan will change in inverse relation to an interest rate change where a loan has a fixed interest rate or only limited interest rate adjustments. Accordingly, in a period of rising interest rates, the market value of such a loan will decrease. Moreover, in a period of declining interest rates, real estate loans with rates that are fixed or variable only to a limited extent may have less value than other income-producing securities due to possible prepayments. Interest rate changes will also affect the return we obtain on new loans. In particular, during a period of declining rates, our reinvestment of loan repayments may be at lower rates than we obtained in prior investments or on the repaid loans. Also, increases in interest rates on debt we incur may not be reflected in increased rates of return on the investments funded through such debt, which would reduce our return on those investments. Accordingly, interest rate changes may materially affect the total return on our investment portfolio, which in turn will affect the amount available for distribution to shareholders. The value of our investments depends on conditions beyond our control. Our investments include loans secured directly or indirectly by real estate, interests in entities whose principal or sole assets are real estate or direct ownership of real estate. As a result, the value of these investments depends primarily upon the value of the real estate underlying these investments which is affected by numerous factors beyond our control including general and local economic conditions, neighborhood values, competitive overbuilding, weather, casualty losses, occupancy rates and other factors beyond our control. The value of this underlying real estate may also be affected by factors such as the costs of compliance with use, occupancy and similar regulations, potential or actual liabilities under applicable environmental laws, changes in interest rates and the availability of financing. Income from a property will be reduced if a significant number of tenants are unable to pay rent or if available space cannot be rented on favorable terms. Operating and other expenses of this underlying real estate, particularly significant expenses such as mortgage payments, insurance, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally do not decrease when income decreases and, even if revenue increases, operating and other expenses may increase faster than revenues. Any investment may also be affected by a borrower’s failure to comply with the terms of our investment, its bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or its properties becoming subject to foreclosure proceedings, all of which may require us to become involved in expensive and time-consuming litigation. Some of our investments defer some portion of our return to loan maturity or the mandatory redemption date. The borrower’s ability to satisfy these deferred obligations may depend upon its ability to obtain suitable refinancing or to otherwise raise a substantial amount of cash. These risks may be subject to the same considerations we describe in this “Risks Related to Our Investments” section. Risks Relating to Our Use of Derivatives and Hedging Instruments Our hedging transactions may not insulate us from interest rate risk, which could cause volatility in our earnings. Subject to limits imposed by our desire to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we enter into hedging transactions to limit exposure to changes in interest rates. We are therefore exposed to risks associated with such transactions. We have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, interest rate swap agreements. We may also use instruments such as forward contracts and interest rate caps, currency swaps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of portfolio positions from changes in market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can 27 Table of Contents establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we would not be able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of hedging transactions undertaken by us will depend on our ability to structure and execute effective hedges for the assets we hold and, to a degree, on our ability to anticipate interest rate or currency value fluctuations, the expected life of our assets or other factors. Our failure to do so may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Changes in fair value can be caused by changes in interest rates that are not fully hedged. To the extent that we fail to hedge fully against adverse fluctuations in interest rates, our earnings will be reduced or we could have losses. While we use hedging to mitigate certain risks, our failure to completely insulate the portfolios from those risks may cause greater volatility in our earnings. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks of default by the hedging counterparty and illiquidity. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, part of our investment strategy involves entering into puts and calls on securities or indices of securities, interest rate swaps, caps and collars, including options and forward contracts, and interest rate lock agreements, principally Treasury lock agreements, to seek to hedge against mismatches between the cash flows from our assets and the interest payments on our liabilities. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. There are often no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we entered into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, we may not always be able to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. A liquid secondary market may not exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may have to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, may impose significant requirements on hedging instruments we use. Our compliance efforts and any need for us to change the manner in which we structure our hedges may result in increased expenses. Also, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for the creation of a clearing house for hedging instruments and require the posting of cash collateral based on the fair value of any hedging instruments. Any such posting requirement could reduce our liquidity or limit our ability to hedge. 28 Table of Contents Our ability to enter into hedging transactions at commercially reasonable rates may be limited by developments relating to the counterparties we used historically and economic and credit market conditions generally. Most of the counterparties under our outstanding hedging instruments are affiliates of investment banks that have subsequently been acquired by other financial institutions. We cannot assure you that as our outstanding hedges reach their termination dates or as we seek to enter into new hedging transactions, that our historical counterparties or other institutions with acceptable credit ratings will enter into hedging transactions with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot enter into interest rate hedges on commercially reasonable terms, our exposure to interest rate risk will increase. The risk of defaults by our counterparties may increase in the event the markets for hedging transactions shrink or otherwise become more volatile. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts like the interest rate swaps we use to limit our exposure to interest rate movements. Most of our derivative contracts require us to fund cash payments upon the early termination of a derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. In addition, some of these derivative arrangements require that we maintain specified percentages of cash collateral with the counterparty to fund potential liabilities under the derivative contract. We may have to make cash payments in order to maintain the required percentage of collateral with the counterparty. These economic losses would be reflected in our results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations would depend on the liquidity of our respective assets and access to capital at the time. The need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity. Our due diligence may not reveal all of an entity’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in the entity’s business. Tax Risks We and our REIT affiliates may fail to qualify as a REIT, and such failure to qualify would have significant adverse consequences on the value of our common shares. In addition, if we fail, or any REIT Affiliate fails, to qualify as a REIT, our respective dividends will not be deductible, and the entity will be subject to corporate-level tax on its net taxable income, which would reduce the cash available to make distributions. We believe that we have been organized and operated in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS that we and our REIT affiliates qualify as a REIT and any statements in our filings or the filings of our REIT affiliates with the SEC are not binding on the IRS or any court. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may also affect our abilities and those of our REIT affiliates to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we and our REIT affiliates must each satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the composition of our respective assets and sources of our respective gross income. Also, we must each make distributions to our respective shareholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our respective net taxable incomes, excluding net capital gains. In addition, our respective ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership or REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As an example, to the extent we invest in preferred equity securities of other REIT issuers, our qualification as a REIT will depend upon the continued qualification of such issuers as REITs under the Internal Revenue Code. Accordingly, unlike other REITs, we and our REIT affiliates may be subject to additional risk regarding our respective ability to qualify and maintain our respective qualification as a REIT. The reduction in our rate of originating new assets, operations and liquidity may adversely impact our and our REIT affiliates’ ability to meet REIT requirements and we and our REIT affiliates may be less able to make changes to our 29 Table of Contents respective investment portfolios to adjust our respective REIT qualifying assets and income depending on our respective ability to deploy capital and maintain assets under management. There can be no assurance that we and our REIT affiliates will be successful in operating in a manner that will allow us to each qualify as a REIT. Because we receive significant distributions from Taberna, and may in the future receive significant distributions from other of our REIT affiliates, the failure of one or more of such REIT affiliates to maintain its REIT status could cause us to lose our REIT status. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors, our respective ability to qualify as a REIT or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. If we or any of our REIT affiliates fail to qualify as a REIT or lose our respective qualification as a REIT at any time, we, or such REIT affiliate, would face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our respective shareholders for each of the years involved because: • we, or such REIT affiliate, would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our respective shareholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we, or such REIT affiliate, also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless statutory relief provisions apply, we, or such REIT affiliate, could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year of disqualification. In addition, if we, or such REIT affiliate, fail to qualify as a REIT, such entity will not be required to make distributions to its shareholders, and all distributions to shareholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT, we and our REIT affiliates must each continually satisfy various tests regarding sources of income, nature and diversification of assets, amounts distributed to shareholders and the ownership of common shares. In order to satisfy these tests, we and our REIT affiliates may be required to forgo investments that might otherwise be made. Accordingly, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our and our REIT affiliates’ investment performance. In particular, at least 75% of our and our REIT affiliates total assets at the end of each calendar quarter must each consist of real estate assets, government securities, and cash or cash items. For this purpose, “real estate assets” generally include interests in real property, such as land, buildings, leasehold interests in real property, stock of other entities that qualify as REITs, interests in mortgage loans secured by real property, investments in stock or debt instruments during the one-year period following the receipt of new capital and regular or residual interests in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC. In addition, the amount of securities of a single issuer that we and each of our REIT affiliates hold must generally not exceed either 5% of the value of our gross assets or 10% of the vote or value of the issuer’s outstanding securities. Certain of the assets that we or our REIT affiliates hold or intend to hold, including TruPS and unsecured loans to REITs or other entities, will not be qualified real estate assets for the purposes of the REIT asset tests. In addition, although preferred equity securities of REITs (which would not include TruPS) should generally be treated as qualified real estate assets, this will require that (i) they are treated as equity for U.S. tax purposes, and (ii) their issuers maintain their qualification as REITs. CMBS should generally qualify as real estate assets. However, to the extent that we or our REIT affiliates own non-REMIC collateralized mortgage obligations or other debt instruments secured by mortgage loans (rather than by real property) or secured by non-real estate assets, or debt securities issued by corporations that are not secured by mortgages on real property, those securities will likely not be qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests. 30 Table of Contents We and our REIT affiliates generally will be treated as the owner of any assets that collateralize a securitization transaction to the extent that we or such affiliates retain all of the equity of the securitization entity and do not make an election to treat such securitization entity as a TRS, as described in further detail below. As noted above, in order to comply with the REIT asset tests and 75% gross income test, at least 75% of each of our respective total assets and 75% of gross income must be derived from qualifying real estate assets, whether or not such assets would otherwise represent our respective best investment alternative. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including any mortgage loans, held in inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The prohibited transaction tax may apply to any sale of assets to a securitization and to any sale of securitization securities, and therefore may limit our respective ability to sell assets to or equity in securitizations and other assets. It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax and the holding of assets not qualifying as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests by conducting certain activities, holding non-qualifying REIT assets or engaging in securitization transactions through our TRSs, subject to certain limitations as described below. To the extent that we and our REIT affiliates engage in such activities through TRSs, the income associated with such activities may be subject to full U.S. federal corporate income tax. Neither TruPS nor equity in corporate entities, such as issuers of securitizations that hold TruPS, will qualify as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and the income generated by such investments generally will not qualify as real estate-related income for the REIT gross income tests. We and Taberna must continue to invest in qualifying real estate assets, such as mortgage loans, debt securities secured by real estate and interests in real property to maintain our respective REIT qualifications, and these assets typically generate less attractive returns than TruPS which could result in reduced returns to Taberna, and therefore to our shareholders. Neither TruPS nor equity in corporate entities, such as issuers of securitizations, that hold TruPS will qualify as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests that Taberna must meet on a quarterly basis to maintain its qualification as a REIT. The income received from Taberna’s investments in TruPS or in corporate entities holding TruPS generally will not qualify as real estate-related income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. If Taberna fails to make sufficient investments in qualifying real estate assets, Taberna will likely fail to maintain its REIT qualification, which could cause Taberna to be subject to significant taxes and RAIT to fail to maintain its REIT qualification and be subject to significant taxes. REIT qualifying investments typically are lower yielding than Taberna’s expected returns on TruPS. Accordingly, maintaining sufficient amounts of REIT qualifying investments could result in reduced returns to Taberna, and therefore to our shareholders. Furthermore, if income inclusions from Taberna’s foreign TRSs which are securitizations, Taberna VIII and Taberna IX, are determined not to qualify for the REIT 95% gross income test, Taberna could fail to qualify as a REIT, or even if it did not fail to qualify as a REIT, Taberna could be subject to a penalty tax. In addition, Taberna would need to invest in sufficient qualifying assets, or sell some of its interests in Taberna VIII and Taberna IX to ensure that the income recognized by Taberna from Taberna VIII and Taberna IX does not exceed 5% of Taberna’s gross income. See “We or Taberna may lose our or its REIT qualification or be subject to a penalty tax if the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, successfully challenges our or its characterization of income from Taberna VIII and Taberna IX.” Any reduction in Taberna’s net taxable income would have an adverse effect on its liquidity, and its ability to pay distributions to us. 31 Table of Contents Each of our and our REIT affiliates’ qualifications as a REIT and exemption from U.S. federal income tax with respect to certain assets may be dependent on the issuers of the REIT securities in which we invest maintaining their REIT qualification and the accuracy of legal opinions rendered to or statements made by the issuers of securities, including securitizations, in which we invest. When purchasing securities issued by REITs, we and our REIT affiliates may each rely on opinions of counsel for the issuer of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents, for purposes of determining whether such issuer qualifies as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes and whether such securities represent debt or equity securities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and therefore to what extent those securities constitute REIT real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produce income which qualifies under the 75% REIT gross income test. In addition, when purchasing securitization equity, we and our REIT affiliates may each rely on opinions of counsel regarding the qualification of the securitization for exemption from U.S. corporate income tax. The inaccuracy of any such opinions or statements may adversely affect our or our REIT affiliates respective REIT qualification and/or result in significant corporate-level tax. In addition, if the issuer of any REIT equity securities in which we or our REIT affiliates invest were to fail to maintain its qualification as a REIT, the securities of such issuer held by us or such affiliate will fail to qualify as real estate assets for purposes of maintaining REIT qualification and the income generated by such securities will not represent qualifying income for purposes of the 75% REIT gross income test and therefore could cause us or such affiliate to fail to qualify as a REIT. We or Taberna may lose our or its REIT qualification or be subject to a penalty tax if the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, successfully challenges our or its characterization of income from Taberna VIII and Taberna IX. We and Taberna are required to include in income, in certain cases, even without the receipt of actual distributions, earnings from foreign TRSs that are securitizations, Taberna VIII and Taberna IX, or other foreign corporations that are not qualified REIT subsidiaries. Taberna treats, and we intend to treat, certain of these income inclusions as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test applicable to REITs but not for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test. The provisions that set forth what income is qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test provide that gross income derived from dividends, interest and certain other classes of passive income qualify for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Income inclusions from equity investments in Taberna VIII and Taberna IX are technically neither dividends nor any of the other enumerated categories of income specified in the 95% gross income test for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and there is no clear precedent with respect to the qualification of such income. However, based on advice of counsel, we and Taberna intend to treat such inclusions, to the extent distributed by Taberna VIII and Taberna IX in the year it was accrued, as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. In 2011, the IRS issued a private letter ruling considering situations in which a REIT had to include income from foreign corporations. The IRS ruled that such income would qualify for the 95% gross income test. Since private letter rulings only protect the recipient of the letter, it is still possible that, because this income does not meet the literal requirements of the REIT provisions, the IRS might take the position that such income is not qualifying income. In the event that such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we or Taberna could fail to qualify as a REIT. Even if such income does not cause us or Taberna to fail to qualify as a REIT because of certain relief provisions, we or Taberna would be subject to a penalty tax with respect to such income because such income, together with other non-qualifying income earned by us or Taberna, has exceeded and will exceed 5% of its gross income. This penalty tax, if applicable, would be calculated by multiplying the amount by which our or Taberna’s non-qualifying income exceeds 5% of our or Taberna’s total gross income by a fraction intended to reflect our or Taberna’s profitability. In addition, if such income were determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we or Taberna would need to invest in sufficient qualifying assets, or sell some interests in Taberna VIII and Taberna IX or other foreign corporations that are not qualified REIT subsidiaries to ensure that the income recognized by us or Taberna from Taberna VIII and Taberna IX or such other foreign corporations does not exceed 5% of our or Taberna’s gross income. 32 Table of Contents We have federal and state tax obligations. Even if we qualify as REITs for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay U.S. federal, state and local taxes on income and property. In addition, our domestic TRSs are fully taxable corporations that will be subject to taxes on their income, and they may be limited in their ability to deduct interest payments made to us. We also will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain amounts if the economic arrangements among us and TRSs are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties or if we receive payments for inventory or property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We may be taxable at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of the income arising from a taxable mortgage pool that is allocable to shares held by “disqualified organizations.” In addition, under certain circumstances we could be subject to a penalty tax for failure to meet certain REIT requirements but nonetheless maintains its qualification as a REIT. For example, we may be required to pay a penalty tax with respect to income earned in connection with securitization equity in the event such income is determined not to be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 95% gross income test but we are otherwise able to remain qualified as a REIT. To the extent that we or the TRSs are required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, we will have less to distribute to shareholders. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, we and our REIT affiliates must each distribute to our respective shareholders each calendar year at least 90% of our respective REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we and our REIT affiliates each satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of net taxable income, we or such affiliate will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax. In addition, we or our REIT affiliates will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our respective distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85% of ordinary income for that year; • 95% of capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% undistributed taxable income from prior years. We and our REIT affiliates each intend to distribute our respective net income to our respective shareholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. There is no requirement that any TRS of ours or our REIT affiliates distribute their after-tax net income to us or our REIT affiliates and such TRSs may, to the extent consistent with maintaining our or our REIT affiliates’ qualification as a REIT, determine not to make any current distributions to us or our REIT affiliates. However, Taberna’s non-U.S. TRSs, Taberna VIII and Taberna IX, will generally be deemed to distribute their earnings to Taberna on an annual basis for U.S. federal income tax purposes, regardless of whether such TRSs actually distribute their earnings. Our or our REIT affiliates’ respective taxable income may substantially exceed our or their respective net income as determined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, because, for example, expected capital losses will be deducted in determining our respective GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our or their respective taxable income. GAAP net income may also be reduced to the extent we or our REIT affiliates have to “markdown” the value of our respective assets to reflect their current value. Prior to the sale of such assets, those mark-downs do not comparably reduce taxable income. In addition, we or our REIT affiliates may invest in assets including the equity of securitization entities that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets. This taxable income may arise for us in the following ways: • Repurchase of our debt at a discount, including our convertible senior notes or CDO notes payable, will generally result in our recognizing REIT taxable income in the form of cancellation of indebtedness income generally equal to the amount of the discount. Recent legislation permits the deferral of taxes coming about through debt buybacks at a discount in certain circumstances. 33 Table of Contents • Origination of loans with appreciation interests may be deemed to have original issue discount for federal income tax purposes. Original issue discount is generally equal to the difference between an obligation’s issue price and its stated redemption price at maturity. This “discount” must be recognized as income over the life of the loan even though the corresponding cash will not be received until maturity. • Our or our REIT affiliates’ loan terms may provide for both an interest “pay” rate and “accrual” rate. When this occurs, we recognize interest based on the sum of the pay rate and the accrual rate, but only receive cash at the pay rate until maturity of the loan, at which time all accrued interest is due and payable. • Our or our REIT affiliates’ loans or unconsolidated real estate may contain provisions whereby the benefit of any principal amortization of the underlying senior debt inures to us or our REIT affiliates. We or our REIT affiliates recognize this benefit as income as the amortization occurs, with no related cash receipts until repayment of our loan. • Sales or other dispositions of investments in real estate, as well as significant modifications to loan terms may result in timing differences between income recognition and cash receipts. Although some types of taxable income are excluded to the extent they exceed 5% of our net income in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax with respect to any taxable income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we or it regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid U.S. federal corporate income tax and the 4% deductible excise tax in that year. If our or Taberna’s securitizations are subject to U.S. federal income tax at the entity level, it would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us or Taberna and pay their creditors. Taberna’s consolidated foreign securitization subsidiaries, Taberna VIII and Taberna IX, are organized as Cayman Islands companies, and we may own similar foreign securitizations in the future. There is a specific exemption from U.S. federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We and Taberna intend that the consolidated securitization subsidiaries and any other non-U.S. securitizations that are TRSs will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If the IRS were to succeed in challenging the tax treatment of our or Taberna’s securitizations, it could greatly reduce the amount that those securitizations would have available to distribute to their shareholders and to pay to their creditors. Any reduced distributions would reduce amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. Our and our REIT affiliates’ ownership of and relationship with TRSs will be limited, and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our and its REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% (20% for taxable years prior to 2009) of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. 34 Table of Contents Any domestic TRSs that we or our REIT affiliates own or that we or our REIT affiliates acquire in the future will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution but will not be required to be distributed. The value of the securities that we or our REIT affiliates hold in TRSs may not be subject to precise valuation. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we or our REIT affiliates will be able to comply with the 25% limitation discussed above or avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. Compliance with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code limit our ability to hedge mortgage-backed securities, preferred securities and related borrowings. Except to the extent provided by the regulations promulgated by the U.S. Treasury Department, or the Treasury regulations, any income from a hedging transaction we enter into in the normal course of business primarily to manage risk of interest rate or price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made, or ordinary obligations incurred or to be incurred, to acquire or carry real estate assets, which is clearly identified as specified in the Treasury regulations before the close of the day on which it was acquired, originated, or entered into, including gain from the sale or disposition of such a transaction, will not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (and will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test). To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result, we might have to limit use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through TRSs. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities or expose it or us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we or it would otherwise want to bear. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common shares. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. Fees we or our REIT affiliates receive will not be REIT qualifying income. We and our REIT affiliates must satisfy two gross income tests annually to maintain qualification as a REIT. First, at least 75% of a REIT’s gross income for each taxable year must consist of defined types of income that derive, directly or indirectly, from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property or temporary investment income. Qualifying income for purposes of that 75% gross income test generally includes: • rents from real property, • interest on debt secured by mortgages on real property or on interests in real property, and • dividends or other distributions on and gain from the sale of shares in other REITs. Second, in general, at least 95% of a REIT’s gross income for each taxable year must consist of income that is qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, dividends, other types of interest, gain from the sale or disposition of stock or securities, income from certain interest rate hedging contracts, or any combination of the foregoing. Gross income from any origination fees we or our REIT affiliates obtain or from our sale of property that are held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is excluded from both income tests. 35 Table of Contents Any origination fees we or our REIT affiliates receive will not be qualifying income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests applicable to REITs under the Internal Revenue Code. We typically receive, and our REIT affiliates may receive, initial payments, or “points,” from borrowers as commitment fees or additional interest. So long as the payment is for the use of money, rather than for other services provided by us or our REIT affiliates, we believe that this income should not be classified as non-qualifying origination fees. However, the Internal Revenue Service may seek to reclassify this income as origination fees instead of commitment fees or interest. If we cannot satisfy the Internal Revenue Code’s income tests as a result of a successful challenge of our classification of this income, we may not qualify as a REIT. Any fees for services, such as advisory fees or broker-dealer fees, received by us or our REIT affiliates will not qualify for either income test. Any such fees earned by a TRS of ours or of one of our REIT affiliates would not be subject to tax, and any distributions from TRSs would be qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test but not for the 75% gross income test. A portion of the dividends we distribute may be deemed a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. The amount of dividends we distribute to our common and preferred shareholders in a given quarter may not correspond to our taxable income for such quarter. Consequently, a portion of the dividends we distribute may be deemed a return of capital for federal income tax purposes, and will not be taxable but will reduce shareholders’ basis in the underlying common or preferred shares. Our ability to use TRSs, and consequently our ability to establish fee-generating businesses and invest in securitizations, will be limited by the election made by us to be taxed as a REIT, which may adversely affect returns to our shareholders. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of securities of one or more TRSs. We and Taberna currently own, and we, Taberna and any other REIT affiliates may own in the future, interests in additional TRSs. However, our ability to expand the fee-generating businesses of our and Taberna’s current TRSs and future TRSs we or our REIT affiliates may form, will be limited by our and our REIT affiliates need to meet this 25% test, which may adversely affect distributions we pay to our shareholders. If Taberna fails to qualify as a REIT, then we also would very likely fail to qualify as a REIT and if any other significant REIT affiliate fails to qualify as a REIT, it would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT . Taberna is a REIT subject to all of the risks discussed above with respect to RAIT. If Taberna fails to qualify as a REIT, then we also would very likely fail to qualify as a REIT, because the income we receive from, and assets we hold through, Taberna make up a significant portion of our total income and assets and materially affect our ability to meet REIT qualification tests. The same is true with respect to other REIT affiliates if the income derived from such REIT affiliate becomes a significant part of our income. Other Regulatory and Legal Risks of Our Business Our reputation, business and operations could be adversely affected by regulatory compliance failures. Potential regulatory action poses a significant risk to our reputation and thereby to our business. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States. We operate our business so as to comply with the Internal Revenue Code’s REIT rules and regulations and so as to remain exempt from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. The SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, oversee the activities of our broker-dealer subsidiary. In addition, we are subject to regulation under the Exchange Act, the Investment Advisers Act and various other statutes. A number of our investing activities, such as our lending business, are subject to regulation by various U.S. state regulators. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of our business, including the authority to grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular businesses. A failure to comply with the obligations imposed by any of the regulations binding on us or to maintain any of the licenses required to be maintained by us could result in investigations, sanctions, monetary penalties and reputational damage. 36 Table of Contents Loss of our Investment Company Act exemption would affect us adversely. We seek to conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company. Under Section 3(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act, a company is not deemed to be an “investment company” if: • it neither is, nor holds itself out as being, engaged primarily, nor proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; and • it neither is engaged nor proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and does not own or propose to acquire “investment securities” having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets exclusive of government securities and cash items on an unconsolidated basis, which we refer to as the 40% test. “Investment securities” excludes U.S. government securities and securities of majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act (relating to issuers whose securities are held by not more than 100 persons or whose securities are held only by qualified purchasers, as defined). We rely on the 40% test because we are a holding company that conducts our businesses through wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiaries. As a result, the securities issued by our subsidiaries that are excepted from the definition of “investment company” under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities we may own, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our total assets exclusive of government securities and cash items on an unconsolidated basis. Based on the relative value of our investment in Taberna, on the one hand, and our investment in RAIT Partnership, on the other hand, we can comply with the 40% test only if RAIT Partnership itself complies with the 40% test (or an exemption other than those provided by Sections 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7)). Because the principal exemptions that RAIT Partnership relies upon to allow it to meet the 40% test are those provided by Sections 3(c)(5)(c) or 3(c)(6) (relating to subsidiaries primarily engaged in specified real estate activities), we are limited in the types of businesses in which we may engage through our subsidiaries. Because RAIT Partnership and the two wholly-owned subsidiaries through which we hold 100% of the partnership interests in RAIT Partnership—RAIT General, Inc. and RAIT Limited, Inc.—will not be relying on Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) for their respective Investment Company Act exemptions, our investments in these securities will not constitute “investment securities” for purposes of the 40% test if RAIT Partnership is otherwise exempt from the Investment Company Act. RAIT Partnership, our subsidiary that holds, directly and through wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiaries, a substantial portion of our assets, intends to conduct its operations so that it is not required to register as an investment company in reliance on the exemption from Investment Company Act regulation provided under Section 3(c)(5)(c). RAIT Partnership may also from time to time rely on the exemption from Investment Company Act regulation provided under Section 3(c)(6). Any entity relying on Section 3(c)(5)(C) for its Investment Company Act exemption must have at least 55% of its portfolio invested in qualifying assets (which in general must consist of mortgage loans, mortgage backed securities that represent the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans and other liens on and interests in real estate) and another 25% of its portfolio invested in other real estate-related assets. Based on no-action letters issued by the staff of the SEC, we classify our investments in mortgage loans as qualifying assets, as long as the loans are “fully secured” by an interest in real estate. That is, if the loan-to-value ratio of the loan is equal to or less than 100%, then we consider the loan to be a qualifying asset. We do not consider loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of 100% to be qualifying assets that come within the 55% basket, but only real estate-related assets that come within the 25% basket. Based on a no-action letter issued by the staff of the SEC, we treat most of our mezzanine loans as qualifying assets because we usually obtain a first lien position on the entire ownership interest of a special purpose entity, or SPE, that owns only real property, or that owns the entire ownership interest in a second SPE that owns only real property, and otherwise comes within the conditions of the no-action letter, and we treat any remaining mezzanine loans as real estate-related assets that come within the 37 Table of Contents 25% basket. The treatment of other investments as qualifying assets and real estate-related assets, including equity investments in subsidiaries, is based on the characteristics of the underlying asset, in the case of a directly held investment, or the characteristics of the assets of the subsidiary, in the case of equity investments in subsidiaries. Any entity relying on Section 3(c)(6) for its Investment Company Act exemption must be primarily engaged, directly or through majority-owned subsidiaries, in one or more specified businesses, including a business described in Section 3(c)(5)(c), or in one or more of such businesses (from which not less than 25% of its gross income during its last fiscal year was derived), together with an additional business or businesses other than investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. Taberna, like RAIT, is a holding company that conducts its operations through subsidiaries. Accordingly, we intend to monitor Taberna’s holdings such that it will satisfy the 40% test. Similar to securities issued to us, the securities issued to Taberna by its subsidiaries that are excepted from the definition of “investment company” by Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities Taberna may own, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of its total assets on an unconsolidated basis. This requirement limits the types of businesses in which Taberna may engage through these subsidiaries. We make the determination of whether an entity is a majority-owned subsidiary of RAIT, RAIT Partnership or Taberna. The Investment Company Act defines a majority-owned subsidiary of a person as a company 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of which are owned by such person, or by another company which is a majority-owned subsidiary of such person. The Investment Company Act further defines voting securities as any security presently entitling its owner or holder to vote for the election of directors of a company. We treat companies, including future securitization subsidiaries, in which we own at least a majority of the outstanding voting securities as majority-owned subsidiaries for purposes of the 40% test. Neither RAIT, RAIT Partnership nor Taberna has requested the SEC to approve our treatment of any company as a majority-owned subsidiary and the SEC has not done so. If the SEC were to disagree with our treatment of one or more companies, including securitizations, as majority-owned subsidiaries, we would need to adjust our respective investment strategies and invest our respective assets in order to continue to pass the 40% test. Any such adjustment in its investment strategy could have a material adverse effect on Taberna and us. A majority of Taberna’s subsidiaries are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the Act with respect to the assets in which they can invest to avoid being regulated as an investment company. In particular, Taberna’s subsidiaries that are securitizations generally rely on Rule 3a-7, an exemption from the Investment Company Act provided for certain structured financing vehicles that pool income-producing assets and issue securities backed by those assets. Such structured financings may not engage in portfolio management practices resembling those employed by mutual funds. Accordingly, each Taberna securitization subsidiary that relies on Rule 3a-7 is subject to an indenture which contains specific guidelines and restrictions limiting the discretion of the securitization. The indenture prohibits the securitization from acquiring and disposing of assets primarily for the purpose of recognizing gains or decreasing losses resulting from market value changes. Certain sales and purchases of assets, such as dispositions of collateral that has gone into default or is at risk of imminent default, may be made so long as they do not violate the guidelines contained in each indenture and are not based primarily on changes in market value. The proceeds of permitted dispositions may be reinvested in collateral that is consistent with the credit profile of the securitization under specific and predetermined guidelines. In addition, absent obtaining further guidance from the SEC, substitutions of assets may not be made solely for the purpose of enhancing the investment returns of the holders of the equity securities issued by the securitization. As a result of these restrictions, Taberna’s securitization subsidiaries may suffer losses on their assets and Taberna may suffer losses on its investments in its securitization subsidiaries. If the combined value of the investment securities issued to Taberna by its subsidiaries that are excepted by Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities Taberna 38 Table of Contents may own, exceeds 40% of Taberna’s total assets on an unconsolidated basis, Taberna may be required either to substantially change the manner in which it conducts its operations or to rely on Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) to avoid having to register as an investment company. As a result of the relative values of RAIT Partnership and Taberna, it is likely that Taberna would rely on the Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) exemptions, which would increase the assets we hold included in the 40% basket for purposes of the 40% test, which would increase the effects that variations in the value of RAIT Partnership’s assets would have on its ability to comply with the 40% test and, accordingly, our ability to remain exempt from registration as an investment company. None of RAIT, RAIT Partnership or Taberna has received a no-action letter from the SEC regarding whether it complies with the Investment Company Act or how its investment or financing strategies fit within the exclusions from regulation under the Investment Company Act that it is using. To the extent that the SEC provides more specific or different guidance regarding, for example, the treatment of assets as qualifying real estate assets or real estate-related assets, we may be required to adjust these investment and financing strategies accordingly. Any additional guidance from the SEC could provide additional flexibility to us and Taberna, or it could further inhibit the ability of Taberna and our combined company to pursue our respective investment and financing strategies which could have a material adverse effect on us. See Item 1-“Business-Certain REIT and Investment Company Act Limits On Our Strategies-Investment Company Act Limits.” Our ownership limitation may restrict business combination opportunities. To qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of each taxable year. To preserve our REIT qualification, our declaration of trust generally prohibits any person from owning more than 8.3% or, with respect to our original promoter, Resource America, Inc., 15%, of our outstanding common shares and provides that: • A transfer that violates the limitation is void. • A transferee gets no rights to the shares that violate the limitation. • Shares acquired that violate the limitation transfer automatically to a trust whose trustee has all voting and other rights. • Shares in the trust will be sold and the record holder will receive the net proceeds of the sale. The ownership limitation may discourage a takeover or other transaction that our shareholders believe to be desirable. Preferred shares may prevent change in control. Our declaration of trust authorizes our board of trustees to issue preferred shares, to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued, to classify any unissued preferred shares and reclassify any previously classified but unissued preferred shares, without shareholder approval. The issuance of preferred shares could delay or prevent a change in control, apart from the ownership limitation, even if a majority of our shareholders want control to change. Maryland anti-takeover statutes may restrict business combination opportunities. As a Maryland REIT, we are subject to various provisions of Maryland law which impose restrictions and require that specified procedures be followed with respect to the acquisition of “control shares” representing at least ten percent of our aggregate voting power and certain takeover offers and business combinations, including, but not limited to, combinations with persons who own one-tenth or more of our outstanding shares. While we have elected to “opt out” of the control share acquisition statute, our board of trustees has the right to rescind the election at any time without notice to our shareholders. 39 Table of Contents If TCM or any other subsidiary required to register as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or the Investment Advisers Act, fails to comply with the Investment Advisers Act, this could have an adverse effect on its ability to earn related fees. Our subsidiary, TCM, is a registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or the Investment Advisers Act, and, as such, is supervised by the SEC. We maintain the registration of TCM under the Investment Advisers Act primarily so that it can serve as collateral manager for Taberna I, Taberna VIII and Taberna IX. We may have to register additional affiliates of RAIT providing management or advisory services to other public and private investment vehicles we sponsor in the future. The Investment Advisers Act requires registered investment advisers to comply with numerous obligations, including record-keeping requirements, operational procedures and disclosure obligations. Such subsidiaries may also be registered with various states and, thus, subject to the oversight and regulation by such states’ regulatory agencies. If we do not comply with these requirements, we may not be able to provide these management or advisory services to Taberna I, Taberna VIII and Taberna IX or other public and private investment vehicles, as applicable, and earn related fees. For a description of an investigation of TCM by the SEC, see “Item 3—Legal Proceedings” below. If our subsidiaries that are not registered as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act that provide collateral management and advisory services to securitizations or other investment vehicles were required to so register, it could hinder our operating performance and negatively impact our business and subject us to additional regulatory burdens and costs that we are not currently subject. Where our subsidiary provides collateral management or advisory services solely to one or more entities that do not invest in “securities” or regarding assets that are not “securities portfolios” that provide sufficient “regulatory assets under management”, as such terms are defined in the Investment Advisers Act, such subsidiary will not engage in activities that would require it to register as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act. We have determined that neither RAIT Partnership nor IRT’s advisor need to register as an investment adviser for RAIT Partnership’s collateral management services to RAIT I and RAIT II or for the IRT advisor’s advisory services to IRT, respectively. We have not requested the SEC to approve our determination that these subsidiaries do not need to register as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act and the SEC has not done so. If the SEC or any applicable state regulatory authority were to disagree with our determination, we would need to register those companies as investment advisers and comply with all applicable requirements, which might require those subsidiaries to adjust the manner in which they provide services which could hinder their respective operating performance and negatively impact their respective business and subject them to additional regulatory burdens and costs that they are not currently subject to. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 40 Table of Contents 