Risk Factors “We have reduced our employment force and have challenges meeting our operating demands” discussion infra. Additional Information Our annual and quarterly reports, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the SEC are publicly available free of charge on the Investor section of our website at www.etelos.com as soon as reasonably practicable after these materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our corporate governance policies, ethics code and board of directors’ committee charters are also posted within this section of the website. The information on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 7 Table of Contents Our current cash will fund our business as currently planned only through June 2009. We need additional funding or we will be forced to curtail or cease operations. We need immediate and substantial cash to continue our operations. We currently have no funding commitments. Management has projected that cash on hand will be sufficient to allow us to continue our operations only through June 2009. We have not made required payments under our outstanding debt securities and the holders of our outstanding debt securities have the right to demand payment of the amounts currently due under such securities or exercise their other remedies, such as foreclosing on our assets. We also need to negotiate payment plans for certain payables and there is a risk that trade creditors will not accept deferred payment and exercise other remedies to collect balances due and owing. We therefore will need additional funding, either through equity or debt financings, or we will be forced to curtail or cease operations or consider other strategic alternatives such as bankruptcy. We have a limited operating history, have experienced significant expenditures related to funding our initial product development, and are currently carrying a net loss. If our business model is not successful, or if we are unable to generate sufficient revenue to offset our start-up expenditures, then we may not become profitable and you may lose your entire investment in our company. We began our operations in 1999 but we did not adopt the SaaS on-demand Web Applications delivery model until 2005, and further changed our business model in the quarter ended December 31, 2008. As such, we have a limited operating history in the SaaS industry in general, and even more limited experience with our new business model, from which to evaluate our business and prospects. We incurred a net loss of $19.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, and $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, and have an accumulated deficit of $29.8 million at December 31, 2008. We cannot assure you that our future planned operations will be implemented successfully or that we will ever have profits. Furthermore, we are experiencing the initial costs and uncertainties of a young operating company, including start-up expenditures, unforeseen costs and difficulties, complications, and delays, all of which must be resolved and/or paid without the benefit of a predictable revenue stream. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in meeting these challenges and addressing these risks and uncertainties. If we are unable to do so, then we may be required to scale back our business, sell or license some or all of our technology or assets, or curtail or cease operations. We do not have sufficient current cash to pay the principal and accrued interest amounts due under our outstanding debt securities. The debentures we issued require monthly principal payments equal to 1/18th of the principal amount due under each debenture. The debentures accrue interest at the rate of six percent per annum, payable quarterly and on each monthly principal payment. We have not made certain payments as required by the terms of the debentures, and do not expect to have the ability to do so in the near future. We are currently in default of our debentures because of our failure to make certain payments when due. As a result the holders of the debentures have the right to accelerate all amounts outstanding under the debentures and demand payment of a mandatory default amount equal to 130 percent of the amount outstanding under the debenture, plus accrued interest and expenses. If such demand was made, we would be unable to repay the mandatory default amount, and the holders could commence legal action against us. Any such action could impose significant costs on us and require us to curtail or cease operations. In addition, as a result of being in default under our January Debentures and April Debentures, the holders may have the right to foreclose on substantially all of our assets pursuant to the terms of the security agreement we entered into with such holders and they would have the right to take possession of our assets and operate our business. Though we are in regular communication with the holders of our outstanding debt securities, and none of them have demanded payment or exercised other remedies due to our current default under such securities, we can give no assurances that the holders will not exercise their remedies in the future. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We began our operations in 1999 but we did not adopt the SaaS on-demand Web Application delivery model until 2005, and we have recently changed our basic business model. Our limited operating history in the SaaS industry may not provide a meaningful basis on which to evaluate our business. Since our inception our revenues have not always grown from year to year. We cannot assure you that we will achieve our growth targets, or that we will achieve positive cash-flow or profitability, or that we will not incur negative cash flow or net losses in the future. We expect that our operating expenses will increase as we expand. Any significant failure to realize anticipated revenue growth could result in significant operating losses beyond our forecasts. We will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies at a similar stage of development, including our potential failure to: · maintain and improve our technology; · expand our product and service offerings and maintain the high quality of products and services offered; 8 Table of Contents · sell subscriptions to our products and offerings by our Syndication Partners to sufficient, quality customers to produce revenues adequate to meet our operating needs; · manage our expanding operations, including the integration of any future acquisitions; · obtain sufficient working capital to support our expansion and to fill customers’ orders in time; · maintain adequate control of our expenses; · implement our product development, marketing, sales, and acquisition strategies and adapt and modify them as needed; and/or · anticipate and adapt to changing conditions in the markets in which we operate as well as the impact of any changes in government regulation, mergers and acquisitions involving our competitors, technological developments, and other significant competitive and market dynamics. If we are not successful in addressing any or all of these risks, then our business may be materially and adversely affected. We may encounter substantial competition in our business and our failure to compete effectively may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. We believe that existing and new competitors will continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. We expect that we will be required to continue to invest in product development and productivity improvements to compete effectively in our markets. Our competitors could develop better technology or more efficient products or undertake more aggressive and costly marketing campaigns than ours, which may adversely affect our marketing strategies and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our major competitors may be better able than us to successfully endure downturns in our markets. In periods of reduced demand for our products, we can either choose to maintain market share by reducing our subscription prices to meet competition or maintain subscription prices, which likely would result in sacrifice of our market share. Sales and overall profitability would be reduced and sustained losses may continue in either case. In addition, we cannot be assured that additional competitors will not enter our existing markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competition. We have a history of losses and we may not achieve profitability in the future. We have not been profitable on a quarterly or annual basis since our formation. Our operations resulted in a net loss of $19.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $4.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $10.4 million and at December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $29.8 million. We expect to make significant future expenditures related to the development and expansion of our business. In addition, as a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. As a result of these increased expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain increased revenue to achieve and maintain future profitability. While our revenue has grown somewhat in recent periods, that growth has not been significant and future revenue growth may not be sustainable and we may not achieve sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred and may continue to incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including due to the other risks described in this report, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and other unknown factors. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability and we may continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. The market for on-demand Web Applications may develop more slowly than we expect. Our success will depend, to a large extent, on the willingness of individuals and SMBs to accept on-demand services for Web Applications that they view as critical to the success of their business. Many businesses have invested substantial effort and financial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses and may be reluctant or unwilling to switch to a different application or to migrate these applications to on-demand Web Applications. Other factors that may affect market acceptance of our Web Applications include our ability to: · minimize the time and resources required to implement products distributed through an Etelos Marketplace; · maintain high levels of customer satisfaction; · implement upgrades and other changes to our products without disrupting our service; and/or · provide rapid response time during periods of intense activity on customer websites. 9 Table of Contents In addition, market acceptance of our Web Applications may be affected by: · the security capabilities, reliability, and availability of on-demand services; · customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, especially confidential or sensitive data; · the level of customization or configuration we offer; and/or · the price, performance, and availability of competing products and services. The market for our products may not develop further, or it may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would harm our business. The market in which we participate is intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, then our operating results may be harmed. The market for SaaS on-demand Web Applications for business is highly competitive and rapidly changing with relatively low barriers to entry. With the introduction of new technologies and new market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. In addition, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, or the failure of our products to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance. Often we offer products in an Etelos Marketplace that compete against existing systems that our potential customers have already made significant expenditures to install. Competition in our market is based principally upon service breadth and functionality; service performance, security and reliability; ability to tailor and customize services for a specific company, vertical or industry; ease of use of the service, speed and ease of deployment, integration and configuration; total cost of ownership, including price and implementation and support costs; professional services implementation; and financial resources of the vendor. We face competition from both traditional software vendors and other SaaS providers. Many of our actual and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages over us, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more varied products and services, and larger marketing budgets, as well as substantially greater financial, technical, and other resources. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing relationships and access to larger customer bases, and have major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators, and resellers. If we are not able to compete effectively, then our operating results will be harmed. Our inability to fund our capital to meet our expenditure requirements may adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our continued growth is dependent upon our ability to raise capital from outside sources. Our ability to obtain financing will depend upon a number of factors, including our financial condition and results of operations, the condition of the economy, and conditions in relevant financial markets. If we are unable to obtain financing, as needed, on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, our financial position, competitive position, growth, and profitability may be adversely affected. The current state of the US and global economy raises substantial doubts, especially about our ability to raise the additional capital that we will need to sustain our business operations. We have reduced our employment force and have challenges meeting our operating demands. We have decreased our number of full-time employees from 46 at June 30, 2008, to 13 as of December 31, 2008. All of these remaining employees are on deferred salary, ranging from 10% to 100% of base salary, and there is no assurance that any of these personnel will be able to continue to work on this payment arrangement. Our operating plan has placed, and our anticipated growth plan is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our very limited managerial, administrative, operational, financial, and other resources, compounded by these recent reductions in headcount. Although we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial, and management controls and our reporting procedures it is clear that we may not be able to do so effectively and may not be able to recruit or retain adequate, qualified personnel to meet our operating demands. As such, we may be unable to manage our expenses effectively in the future, which may negatively impact our gross margins or operating expenses in any particular quarter. Our customers are individuals, small and medium-sized businesses, and divisions of large companies, which may increase our costs to reach, acquire and retain customers. We market and distribute our products and services and other offerings in Etelos Marketplaces to individuals, SMBs, and divisions of large companies. To grow our revenue quickly, we must add new customers, sell additional services to existing customers, and encourage existing customers to renew their subscriptions. However, selling to and retaining individuals and SMBs can be more difficult than selling to and retaining large enterprises because SMB customers tend to be more price sensitive and more difficult to reach with broad marketing campaigns. In addition, individuals and SMBs have high churn rates in part because of the nature of their businesses and often lack the staffing to benefit fully from our products. Further, individuals and SMBs often require higher sales, marketing, and support expenditures by vendors that sell to them per revenue dollar generated for those vendors. 10 Table of Contents Many of our customers are price sensitive, and if the prices that we or our Syndication Partners charge for subscriptions to products or services offered in an Etelos Marketplace are unacceptable to our customers, then our operating results will be harmed. Many of our customers are price sensitive, and we have limited experience with respect to determining the appropriate prices for our products or services. In addition, we have no control over prices charged by our Syndication Partners for their products or services offered in an Etelos Marketplace. As the market for our products or services matures, or as new competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours, we may be unable to renew agreements with existing customers or attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as previously used. As a result, it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to change pricing models or reduce prices, which could harm our revenue, gross margin, and operating results. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our patents and other intellectual property, which could harm our business and competitive position. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies. We own multiple filed United States and foreign patent applications covering our technology and we expect to file more U.S. and foreign patent applications in the future. We have filed to protect most of those patents in many foreign countries. But the process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive and we cannot assure that our patent applications will result in patents being issued, or that our existing or future issued patents will be sufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantages. We also cannot assure that our current or potential competitors do not have, and will not obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our technology or operate an Etelos Marketplace. Our success depends in large part on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, service mark, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights on a global basis, all of which provide only limited protection. We cannot assure you that any patent will issue from our currently pending patent applications in a manner that gives us the protection that we seek, if at all, or that any future patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. Since the filing of some of these patent applications may have been, or will be, made after the date of first sale or disclosure of the subject inventions, patent protection may not be available for these inventions outside the United States. Any patents that may issue in the future may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, we cannot assure you that any future service mark or trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any registered service marks or trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our domestic and foreign proprietary rights. We have not maintained operating controls or logs, or initiated or conducted any forensic, code history, ‘genealogy’ or other forms of audit, analysis, processes, training, or code review of software code incorporated into any Etelos product or in other products offered by Syndication Partners in an Etelos Marketplace. We do not review the intellectual property rights related to products or services offered by Syndication Partners in an Etelos Marketplace. These products may include code subject to various forms of ‘open source’, ‘copyleft’, or similar licenses that require as a condition of modification or distribution of software subject to such license(s) that (i) such software or other software combined or distributed with such software be disclosed or distributed in source code form, or (ii) such software or other software combined or distributed with such software, and any related intellectual property, be licensed on a royalty-free basis, including for the purposes of making additional copies or derivative works of such software. This may adversely affect our ability to patent certain inventions or to license or distribute certain products - whether by open source license or other form of license or right - and may result in liability to unknown parties for infringement of their patents or other intellectual property rights. We require our Syndication Partners to indemnify us for intellectual property claims but we cannot assure that these agreements will be enforceable. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. The steps we have taken, however, may not prevent unauthorized use or the reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our successful legal actions against these infringers, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. 11 Table of Contents Assertions by third parties that we infringe their intellectual property, whether successful or not, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses. The software and technology industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we face increasing competition, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us may grow; the costs of defending against such claims can be very large. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Additionally, many of our partner and product agreements require us to indemnify our customers for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims and may require that we pay damages or purchase expensive licenses, if there were an adverse ruling related to any such claims. These types of claims could harm our relationships with our customers, may deter future customers from subscribing to our services, or could expose us to litigation for these claims. Even if we are not a party to any litigation between a customer and a third party, an adverse outcome in any such litigation could make it more difficult for us to defend our intellectual property in any subsequent litigation in which we are a named party. Any intellectual property rights claim against our customers, or us, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, and could divert management attention and financial resources. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our products to our customers and may require that we procure or develop substitute services that do not infringe. For any intellectual property rights claim against us or against our Marketplace Partners or customers, we may have substantial direct and indirect costs. Direct costs can include a requirement to pay damages or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We may have to purchase a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, may significantly increase our operating expenses, or may require us to restrict our business activities in one or more respects. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. Substantial indirect costs also may be expected in the form of diversion of development and management resources in strategic planning for legal, technology, and business defenses to such claims. We rely on our management team and need additional personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success and future growth depends to a significant degree on the skills and continued services of our management team, especially Daniel J.A. Kolke, our interim Chief Executive Officer, Acting Chief Financial Officer, and Chairman of the Board. The loss of the services of any member of our management team for any reason may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We do not maintain key man insurance on any members of our management team, including Mr. Kolke. Subsequent to the termination of our former Chief Executive Officer, we significantly and materially reduced our management team and have not hired replacements for the management team in the positions of Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Vice President – Marketing, Vice President Corporate Development, and Vice President – Human Resources, as well as several other Director-level positions, primarily in non-technical positions throughout the Company. We did not fill these positions in the period ending December 31, 2008, and we have not filled any of these positions to the date of this report. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, marketing and service and support personnel, including members of our management team. Competition for sales, marketing, and technology development personnel is particularly intense in the software and technology industries. As a result, we may be unable to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary personnel could harm our business. If we do not effectively expand and train our sales force and our services and support teams, then we may be unable to add new customers and retain existing customers. We plan to expand our sales force and our services and support teams to increase our customer base and revenue. We believe that there is significant competition for sales, service, and support personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in part, on our success in recruiting, training, and retaining sufficient numbers of personnel to support our growth. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we expect and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business. If these expansion efforts are not successful or do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue, then our business will be harmed. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to cost-effectively market and distribute our products to our target customers, then our ability to grow our revenue quickly and become profitable will be harmed. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Also period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may be due to a number of factors, including the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this report. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause our stock price to decline rapidly, may lead analysts to change their long-term model for valuing our common stock, could cause us to face short-term liquidity issues, may impact our ability to retain or attract key personnel, or cause other unanticipated issues. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of research analysts or investors, then the price of our common stock could decline substantially. We use third-party data centers to support our services. Any disruption of service at these facilities could interrupt or delay our ability to deliver our service to our customers. We host many of our services and serve a significant number of our customers from third-party data center facilities with Network OS, located in the greater Seattle Washington area. We do not control the operation of these facilities. These facilities may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, terrorist attacks, power losses, telecommunications failures, and similar events. These facilities also could be subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Our data center facility providers have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew our agreements with any facility provider on commercially reasonable terms, then we may experience increased costs or downtime in connection with the transfer to a new data center facility. Any errors, defects, disruptions, or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits to customers, subject us to potential liability, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions, and harm our renewal rates. Any significant fluctuation in price of servers or related support may have a material adverse effect on the cost of our products and services. The prices of servers and related support are subject to market conditions and generally we do not, and do not expect to, have long-term contracts with our suppliers for those items. While these items are generally available and we have not experienced any shortage in the past, we cannot assure you that the necessary servers or support will continue to be available to us at prices currently in effect or acceptable to us. The prices for these items have varied significantly in the past and may vary significantly in the future. Numerous factors, most of which are beyond our control, influence prices of servers and related support. These factors include general economic conditions, industry capacity utilization, vendor backlogs and delays and other uncertainties. We may not be able to adjust our product prices, especially in the short-term, to recover cost increases in these items. Our future profitability may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to pass on higher server and support related costs to our customers. We may become liable to our customers and lose customers if we have defects or disruptions in our products and services or if we provide poor service. Because we deliver products as a service through an Etelos Marketplace, errors or defects in the Web Applications underlying the service, or a failure of our hosting infrastructure may make the service unavailable to our customers. Because our customers use the products to manage critical aspects of their business, any errors, defects, disruptions in service, or other performance problems with the products, whether in connection with the day-to-day operation of the products, upgrades or otherwise, could damage our customers’ businesses. If we have any errors, defects, disruptions in service, or other performance problems with the products, then customers could elect not to renew their subscriptions or delay or withhold payment to us. As a result, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty claims against us or our Syndication Partners, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, or costly litigation. 13 Table of Contents If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s data, then we may incur significant liabilities, our service may be perceived as not being secure, and customers may curtail or stop using our products. The products and services we offer in an Etelos Marketplace involve the storage of large amounts of our customers’ sensitive and proprietary business information. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, and someone obtains unauthorized access to our customers’ data, then we could incur significant liability to our Syndication and Marketplace Partners, our customers, and to individuals or businesses whose information was being stored by our customers, our business may suffer and our reputation may be damaged. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage, systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, then the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers. If we are unable to develop new products or services, distribute our products or services into new markets, or add Syndication Partners to offer their products or services for distribution in an Etelos Marketplace, then our revenue growth will be harmed and we may not be able to achieve profitability. Our ability to attract new customers and to increase revenue from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing products and to add new Marketplace Partners and new Syndication Partners to offer their products and services and distribute into new markets. The success of any enhancement or new Syndication Partner offering depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction, and market acceptance of the enhancement, product or service. Any new product or service offered by a Syndication Partner or that we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. Any new markets into which we attempt to distribute our products or services may not be receptive. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new products or services, enhance our existing products and services to meet customer requirements, or distribute our products and services into new markets, then our revenue will not grow as expected and we may not be able to achieve profitability. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls or are unable to remediate the material weakness in our internal controls, then our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and investors’ views of us could be harmed. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. During our audit for the year ended December 31, 2008, we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls. The material weaknesses relate to the absence of specific policies and procedures for some accounting functions and the need for accounting personnel who possess the skill sets necessary to operate and report as a public company, and specifically the skills necessary to ensure that adequate review of critical account reconciliations is performed and that supporting documentation is complete, accurate, and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our financial position and limited resources make it difficult for us to address these weaknesses. If we fail to address these material weaknesses or if additional material weaknesses in our internal controls are discovered in the future, then we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations, our financial statements may contain material misstatements and the price of our common stock may decline. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may distract our officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing processes, and add personnel and take significant time to complete. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and harm our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis may harm our stock price and make it more difficult for us to effectively market and distribute our products and services to new and existing customers. Material defects or errors in the software we use to deliver our products and services and the offerings by our Marketplace and Syndication Partners could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us, and impair our ability to distribute our services. The Web Applications underlying the offerings in an Etelos Marketplace are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have, from time to time, found defects in our products and services, and new errors in our existing software and services may be detected in the future. We have no actual knowledge, but we reasonably expect that the products and services offered by our Syndication Partners may have similar errors and/or defects. Any errors or defects that cause interruptions to the availability of our services and the services for our Marketplace Partners could result in: · a reduction in sales or delay in market acceptance of services from us or our Marketplace Partners; 14 Table of Contents · sales credits or refunds to our customers and customers of our Marketplace Partners; · loss of existing customers and difficulty in attracting new customers; · diversion of development resources; · harm to our reputation, or the reputation of our Marketplace Partners; and/or · increased warranty and insurance costs. After the release of our services, defects or errors may also be identified from time to time by our internal team, our Marketplace and Syndication Partners, and by our customers. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in such products or services may be substantial and could harm our operating results. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes or our failure to comply with regulations could harm our operating results. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by super-national, federal, state or local government agencies becomes more likely. Increased regulation in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing, or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for Web-based applications and restricting our ability to store, process, and share our customers’ data. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet access or use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Web-based services, which could harm our business and operating results. Privacy concerns and laws or other regulations may reduce the effectiveness of our products and services and harm our business. Our customers can use the products and services offered in an Etelos Marketplace to store personal or identifying information regarding their customers and contacts. Super-national, federal, state and other government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adoption of laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and other individuals. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of our products and services and reduce overall demand. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and other industries are considering various new, additional, or different self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us and our Marketplace and Syndication Partners. If the gathering of personal information were to be curtailed, then Web-based applications would be less effective, which may reduce demand for the products and services offered in an Etelos Marketplace and harm our business. Our operating results may be harmed if we are required to collect taxes for our subscription services in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so. We have not collected any sales or other taxes from our customers or remitted any such taxes to any taxing jurisdiction where we may be required to do so. We have begun an analysis of this issue but to date have not made any accrual for any potential liability. In addition, additional taxing jurisdictions at various local, national and super-national levels may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us. We have not recorded sales or other tax liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2008 or 2007, in respect of sales or other tax liabilities in any jurisdiction. A successful assertion that we should be collecting sales or other taxes on our service could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing our products, or otherwise harm our business and operating results. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations, and harm our operating results. A change in accounting standards or practices could harm our operating results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may harm our operating results or the way we conduct our business. 15 Table of Contents We may expand by acquiring or investing in other companies, which may divert management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, and consume resources that are necessary to operate and sustain our business. Although we have no ongoing negotiations or current agreements or commitments for any acquisitions, our business strategy may include acquiring complementary products, services, technologies, or businesses. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our product or service offerings or our ability to provide service in foreign jurisdictions, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing, investments in other companies, or other strategies. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult, and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may often be subject to approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close. An acquisition, investment, or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, services offerings, personnel, or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, the target’s software is not easily adapted to work with ours, or we are unable to retain the customers of any acquired business due to changes in management or otherwise. Acquisitions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources, and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for operation and development of our business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment, or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown liabilities. For one or more of those transactions, we may: · issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; · use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; · incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; · incur large charges or substantial liabilities; · encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse software codes or business cultures; and/or · become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation, or deferred compensation charges. Any of these risks could harm our business and operating results. We may be subject to other legal claims. In June 2008, Kaufman Bros. L.P. filed suit against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (Case No. 80 CV 5716) and sought a temporary restraining order and other extraordinary relief. The complaint arose out of an advisory services agreement, pursuant to which Kaufman Bros. was to provide us with advisory services in connection with financings and strategic transactions. We notified Kaufman Bros. that we believed it had failed to provide the required services under the agreement, and that we were therefore entitled to terminate the agreement for cause. In the suit, Kaufman Bros. was seeking (i) monetary damages of $400,000 for anticipatory breach of the agreement; (ii) $73,800 in fees allegedly owed in connection with a previously closed financing transaction; (iii) and injunction prohibiting us from cancelling any shares issued to Kaufman Bros. as compensation, (iv) a declaration from the court that we are not entitled to a refund of any fees previously paid to Kaufman Bros., and (v) a declaration that we are obligated to pay Kaufman Bros. a commission on any financing or transaction that we enter into within 18 months following the termination of the agreement. On July 15, 2008, Kaufman Bros. voluntarily filed a notice of dismissal without prejudice. Settlement discussions were unsuccessful and, on July 31, 2008, Kaufman Bros. re-filed substantially the same claims in the Supreme Court of New York - County of New York (Index No. 08-602239). Effective on December 5, 2008, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with Kaufman Bros., pursuant to which (i) the Company agreed to pay to Kaufman Bros. $210,000, in twelve monthly installments of $17,500; (ii) the Company issued to Kaufman Bros. warrants to purchase 500,000 shares of the Company’s common stock at an exercise price of $0.75 per share, which warrants have a term of five years; (iii) the Company and Kaufman Bros. agreed immediately to terminate all provisions, terms and conditions of the advisory services agreement and exchanged mutual releases; and (iv) Kaufman Bros. agreed to dismiss the pending lawsuit in the Supreme Court of New York, without prejudice. Subsequent to entering into the settlement agreement, we have not fully complied with our payment obligations under the settlement agreement but, through the date of filing of this report, Kaufman Bros. has not exercised any of its remedies for default under the settlement agreement. On October 31, 2008, the Company closed its offices in San Mateo, California and abandoned the leased premises of its former offices there. The landlord for these premises has asserted a claim for $659 thousand for alleged unpaid rent and other amounts and filed a proceeding in the Superior Court of San Mateo County, California (Case No. CIV 479535) on December 19, 2008. This matter is pending and the Company intends to defend its position. 16 Table of Contents On September 18, 2008, the employment of Jeffrey L. Garon as president and chief executive officer of the Company was terminated. On October 19, 2008, Mr. Garon resigned from the Board of Directors. Mr. Garon and the Company entered into an Employment Agreement dated August 11, 2007, which provided certain benefits to Mr. Garon in the event of termination of his employment, and granted to the Company certain rights to repurchase shares issued on behalf of Mr. Garon pursuant to his employment agreement. The Company and Mr. Garon have been engaged in discussions about these benefits and rights, and no final agreement has been reached as of the filing date of this report. On October 1, 2008, we relocated our headquarters from San Mateo, California to Renton, Washington, and terminated eight employees based in California. In October 2008, we terminated eight more employees employed in both our California and Washington offices. None of these terminated employees have asserted any claims against us at this time but no assurances can be given that such employees will not assert such claims in the future. As part of our reduction of monthly cash operating expenses during the quarter ended December 31, 2008, and continuing after the end of the quarter, we placed all employees on partial deferrals of salary, ranging from 10% to 100% of base salary. At the end of the quarter, until the filing date of this report, this deferral amount remains unpaid, including amounts due to employees who subsequently were terminated. On December 17, 2008, we received notice that one employee has filed a claim with the California Labor Commissioner; that claim has not been resolved. No other employee has asserted a claim or demand for immediate payment of these unpaid amounts but the assertion of such claims or demands by such employees, or by other governmental authorities, is foreseeable. In connection with our reverse merger, multiple financings, and protection of our intellectual property, we have incurred substantial accounts payable to law firms that remain unpaid and overdue. We have been in communication with these vendors and expect to enter into negotiated payment plans with these vendors, and others, but there is no assurance that we will be successful in these negotiations, or that we will be able to make payments under such plans if and when negotiated. Therefore the assertion of claims by these vendors for these amounts due and owing could become the subject of claims in litigation. Our officers, directors, and affiliates control us through their positions and stock ownership and their interests may differ from other stockholders. As of December 31, 2008, our officers, directors, and affiliates beneficially own approximately 72 percent of our common stock and 60 percent of our preferred stock. As a result, if they act together, they are able to influence the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions, including business combinations. This concentration could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that could otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. The interests of our officers, directors, and affiliates may differ from other stockholders. Furthermore, the current ratios of ownership of our common stock reduce the public float and liquidity of our common stock, which can in turn affect the market price of our common stock. We are responsible for the indemnification of our officers and directors. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, and, under certain circumstances, against costs and expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with or activities on our behalf. Consequently, we may be required to expend substantial funds to satisfy these indemnity obligations. The market price of our securities could be adversely affected by sales of registered and restricted securities. Actual sales or the prospect of future sales of shares of our common stock pursuant to a prospectus or under Rule 144 may have a depressive effect upon the price of, and market for, our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, 23,027,624 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding, of which 18,017,624 are “restricted securities” and under some circumstances may, in the future, be under a registration under the Securities Act or in compliance with Rule 144 adopted under the Securities Act. In general, under Rule 144, subject to the satisfaction of other conditions, a person who has beneficially owned restricted shares of common stock for at least one year is entitled to sell, within any three month period, a number of shares that does not exceed the greater of 1 percent of the total number of outstanding shares of the same class; or if the common stock is quoted on NASDAQ or a stock exchange, the average weekly trading volume during the four calendar weeks immediately preceding the sale. We cannot predict what effect, if any, that sales of shares of common stock, or the availability of these shares for sale, will have on the market prices prevailing from time to time. Nevertheless, the possibility that substantial amounts of common stock may be sold in the public market may adversely effect prevailing prices for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital in the future through the sale of equity securities. In addition to the 18,017,624 shares of “restricted securities” that were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2008, we have a registration statement that registers for resale an aggregate of 1,906,557 shares of our common stock. The additional overhang represented by these registered securities could also have a depressive effect on the public trading price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents The sale of the shares of our common stock acquired in private placements could cause the price of our common stock to decline. The purchasers of our January 2008 and April 2008 Debentures and related warrants, as well as the holders of our other outstanding convertible notes, may, subject to compliance with Rule 144, rely on the provisions of Rule 144 to resell the shares of our common stock acquired upon the conversion and exercise of such securities. We have no way of knowing whether or when such shares may be sold. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, a sale of shares by such investors at any given time could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. The sale of substantial number of shares of our common stock, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. In addition, in connection with our January 2008 and April 2008 Debentures, in the aggregate, we issued a total of $5.5 million principal amount of convertible debentures, convertible into 4,074,074 shares of our common stock, and warrants to purchase an additional 611,111 shares of our common stock. We agreed to register for resale by the investors the shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of the debentures and the exercise of the warrants we issued in those private placements. The conversion or exercise into our common stock and the registration of that common stock could result in a substantial increase in the number of shares in our public float. Depending upon market liquidity at the time a resale of our common stock is made by the investors in such private placements, such sale could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. We have significant indebtedness and agreed to certain restrictions as a result of our recent private placement of convertible debentures. We incurred $5.5 million in principal amount of indebtedness as a result of the issuance of our January 2008 and April 2008 Debentures. The debentures carry substantial covenants that impose significant restrictions on us, including restrictions against incurring additional indebtedness, creating any liens on our property, amending our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, redeeming or paying dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock, and entering into certain related party transactions. The debentures also carry substantial covenants that impose significant requirements on us, including, among others, requirements that we pay interest and other charges on the debentures; Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by changes in our business condition or results of our operations, or other events beyond our control. We have breached certain of these covenants and are in a default under the debentures, which permits the holders thereof to accelerate the maturity of the debentures and demand repayment in full. Such actions by such holders could impair our ability to operate or cause us to seek bankruptcy protection. Certain covenants we agreed to in connection with the debentures may impair our ability to issue additional debt or equity. Our January 2008 and April 2008 Debentures impose significant covenants on us, some of which may impair our ability to issue additional debt or equity, if necessary. For example, the investors in our April 2008 Debentures have the right to participate in any financing we undertake through the date that is the 12 month anniversary of the effectiveness of the registration statement we agreed to file for the re-sale of our shares of common stock issuable upon conversion and exercise of our April 2008 Debentures. Our failure to secure and maintain registration of the common stock could result in substantial liquidated damages. Under the terms of the registration rights agreements we entered into with the investors in connection with our January 2008 and April 2008 Debentures, we agreed to file a registration statement covering the resale of the shares of common stock underlying the securities we sold in such private placements, and to maintain the effectiveness of the registration statements (subject to certain limitations) for a period of time until the holders can sell the underlying common stock without volume restrictions under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. If the registration statement is not declared effective within an agreed to time period, or if we fail to maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement, we are required to pay to the investors partial liquidated damages. Since the registration statement was effective on July 31, 2008, after the deadline in the registration rights agreement, we may be liable for liquidated damages, in the amount of $14.7 thousand, which we have accrued as a liability. 18 Table of Contents If we need additional financing in the future and are required to issue securities which are priced at less than the conversion price of our debentures or the exercise price of warrants sold in our recent private placements, it will result in additional dilution. Our January 2008 and April 2008 Debentures and the related warrants contain provisions that will require us to reduce the conversion price and exercise price, as the case may be, if we issue additional securities while such debentures or warrants are outstanding which contain purchase prices, conversion prices or exercise prices less than the conversion price of our January 2008 or April 2008 Debentures or the exercise price of the warrants. If this were to occur, current investors, other than the investors in our recent private placements, would sustain material dilution in their ownership interest. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions: · authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend, and other rights superior to our common stock; · limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; · limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; · requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; · controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board and stockholder meetings; and · limiting, generally, the filling of vacancies or newly created seats on the board to our board of directors then in office. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock, including through convertible debt securities, to finance future operations or complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and could cause a change in control of our ownership. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this report to issue any additional securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of both, including through convertible debt securities, to finance future operations. We may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we engage in debt financing, then we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios. Further, the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of preferred stock, including upon conversion of any debt securities, may: · significantly reduce the equity interest of our current stockholders; · cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock or voting preferred stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry-forwards, if any, and could also result in a change in management; and/or · adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things: · develop or enhance our products and services; · continue to expand our development, sales and marketing organizations; · acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses; · expand operations; · hire, train and retain employees; and/or · respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. 19 Table of Contents Although we have no commitments as of the date hereof to issue any additional securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of both, including through convertible debt securities, to finance future operations or complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of preferred stock, including upon conversion of any debt securities: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of our current stockholders; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock or voting preferred stock are issued and could also result in a change in management; and/or · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. The 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and all options issued under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan contain provisions for acceleration of all unvested options in the event of a change of control, which might be a disincentive to acquisition of the Company as a liquidation strategy. The 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and all options currently issued thereunder and options granted outside such plan provides for accelerated vesting of all unvested options in the event of a change of control, which is defined as an acquisition by a single person of more than 50 percent of the total combined voting power of all of our outstanding securities. This may be regarded as a barrier to retention of key employees following a change-of-control acquisition and therefore make such an acquisition more costly or difficult, and therefore an unattractive strategic option, for a prospective acquiror. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of the Notes prohibit us from making any dividend payment or distribution to holders of our common stock while any portion of the Notes remain outstanding. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Our securities may be thinly traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, which may not provide liquidity for our investors. Our common stock is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than the NASDAQ Stock Market or other national or regional exchanges. Securities traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board are usually thinly traded, highly volatile, have fewer market makers, and are not followed by analysts. The SEC’s order handling rules, which apply to NASDAQ-listed securities, do not apply to securities quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. Quotes for stocks included on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board may not be listed in newspapers. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board may be difficult to obtain and holders of our securities may be unable to resell their securities at or near their original acquisition price, or at any price. Investors must contact a broker-dealer to trade Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board securities. As a result, you may not be able to buy or sell our common stock at the times that you may wish. Even though our common stock is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board may not permit our investors to sell securities when and in the manner that they wish. Because there are no automated systems for negotiating trades on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, they are conducted via telephone. In times of heavy market volume, the limitations of this process may result in a significant increase in the time it takes to execute investor orders. Therefore, when investors place market orders to buy or sell a specific number of shares at the current market price it is possible for the price of a stock to go up or down significantly during the lapse of time between placing a market order and its execution. Our stock price may be volatile and you may not be able to sell your shares for more than what you paid. Our stock price is likely to be subject to significant volatility and you may not be able to sell shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of the common stock could continue to fluctuate in the future in response to various factors including, but not limited to: quarterly variations in operating results; our ability to control costs and improve cash flow; announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; changes in investor perceptions; and new products or produce enhancements by us or our competitors. The stock market in general has continued to experience volatility, which may further affect our stock price. As such, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. 20 Table of Contents Our common stock is likely to be subject to penny stock rules. Our common stock is subject to Rule 15g-1 through 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which imposes certain sales practice requirements on broker-dealers which sell our common stock to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with net worths in excess of $1 million or annual incomes exceeding $200 thousand (or $300 thousand together with their spouses)). For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. This rule adversely affects the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and purchasers of our common stock to sell their shares of such common stock. Additionally, our common stock is likely to be subject to the SEC regulations for “penny stock.” Penny stock includes any equity security that is not listed on a national exchange and has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The regulations require that prior to any non-exempt buy/sell transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule set forth by the SEC relating to the penny stock market must be delivered to the purchaser of such penny stock. This disclosure must include the amount of commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current price quotations for the common stock. The regulations also require that monthly statements be sent to holders of penny stock which disclose recent price information for the penny stock and information of the limited market for penny stocks. These requirements adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock. ITEM IB. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 