Item 1A. Risk Factors. If any of the following events discussed in the following risks were to occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial by us, may also constrain our business and operations. Risks Relating to our Capital Structure Our high level of debt and significant leverage may adversely affect our operations and our ability to grow and otherwise execute our business strategy. We have a substantial amount of debt. As of June 30, 2006, we had $1,519.2 million of outstanding debt, excluding letters of credit and guarantees. This represented 68.8% of our total capitalization as of June 30, 2006. The amount of our outstanding indebtedness is large compared to the net book value of our assets, and we have significant repayment obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future capital expenditures, working capital, acquisitions or other needs; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, market and industry conditions and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, these conditions; • make us vulnerable to increases in interest rates since $789.7 million of our borrowings under our senior credit facilities as of August 31, 2006 are, and additional borrowings may be, at variable interest rates; • our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, and we may be more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions or our business or be unable to carry out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and our efforts to improve operating margins; • limit our ability to use operating cash in other areas of our business because we must use a substantial 33 portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments; and • limit our ability to compete with others who are not as highly-leveraged. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest or to satisfy our other debt obligations, to refinance our indebtedness or to fund capital expenditures will depend on our future operating performance. Prevailing economic conditions (including interest rates) and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will also affect our ability to meet these needs. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or realize anticipated revenue growth or operating improvements, or obtain future borrowings in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt when needed on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Despite our current significant leverage, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks that we and our subsidiaries face. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indentures and the senior credit facilities do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. Our revolving credit facility provides commitments of up to $250.0 million (not giving effect to any outstanding letters of credit, which would reduce the amount available under our revolving credit facility), of which $207.2 million was available for future borrowings as of August 31, 2006. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, we may request an incremental term loan facility or facilities be added to our current senior credit facilities in an amount not to exceed $300.0 million in the aggregate, subject to receipt of commitments by existing lenders or other financing institutions and to the satisfaction of certain other conditions. We may in the future borrow all available amounts under the revolving credit facility, under the incremental term loan facility and in addition, we may borrow substantial additional indebtedness in the future under new debt agreements. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. Operating and financial restrictions in our debt agreements limit our operational and financial flexibility. The senior credit facilities and the indentures under which $575.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 9.0% senior subordinated notes due 2014 and $216.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 11.25% senior discount notes due 2015 were issued (collectively, the “Public Notes”) contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends on or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make investments; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • limit dividends or other payments by restricted subsidiaries to our restricted subsidiaries; • create liens on pari passu or subordinated indebtedness without securing the Public Notes; • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, under the senior credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and tests. Events beyond our control may affect our ability to comply with those provisions and we may not be 34 able to meet those ratios and tests. The breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the senior credit facilities and the lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed under the senior credit facilities, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable and could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. Borrowings under the senior credit facilities are senior in right of payment to the Public Notes. If any of our indebtedness were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and the Public Notes. Our capital expenditure and acquisition strategy requires substantial capital resources. The building of new hospitals and the operations of our existing hospitals and newly acquired hospitals require ongoing capital expenditures for construction, renovation, expansion and the addition of medical equipment and technology. More specifically, we may in the future be contractually obligated to make significant capital expenditures relating to the facilities we acquire. Also, construction costs to build new hospitals are substantial. Our debt agreements may restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness to fund these expenditures. A breach of any of the restrictions or covenants in our debt agreements could cause a cross-default under other debt agreements. A significant portion of our indebtedness then may become immediately due and payable. We are not certain whether we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. If any senior debt is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness and our other indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. In addition, the indentures governing the Public Notes allow us to make significant dividend payments, investments and other restricted payments. The making of these payments could decrease available cash and adversely affect our ability to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. The senior credit facilities and the indentures restrict our ability to use the proceeds from asset sales. We may not be able to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair and proceeds that we do receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. The substantial borrowings under our Senior Credit Facilities bear interest at variable rates. As a result, an increase in interest rates, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability. The impact of such an increase would be more significant than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial debt. For a discussion of how we manage our exposure to changes in interest rates through the use of interest rate swap agreements on certain portions of our outstanding debt, see “Item 7A. – Quantitave and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risks.” 35 Risks Related to our Business If we are unable to enter into favorable contracts with managed care plans, our operating revenues may be reduced. Our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with health maintenance organizations, insurers offering preferred provider arrangements and other managed care plans significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. Revenues derived from health maintenance organizations, insurers offering preferred provider arrangements and other managed care plans, including Medicare and Medicaid managed care plans, accounted for approximately 50% of our net patient revenues for the year ended June 30, 2006. Managed care organizations offering prepaid and discounted medical services packages represent an increasing portion of our admissions, a general trend in the industry which has limited hospital revenue growth nationwide and a trend that may continue if the Medicare Modernization Act increases enrollment in Medicare managed care plans. In addition, private payers are increasingly attempting to control healthcare costs through direct contracting with hospitals to provide services on a discounted basis, increased utilization review, including the use of hospitalists, and greater enrollment in managed care programs such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. In most cases, we negotiate our managed care contracts annually as they come up for renewal at various times during the year. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to renew existing managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. Other healthcare companies, including some with greater financial resources, greater geographic coverage or a wider range of services, may compete with us for these opportunities. If we are unable to contain costs through increased operational efficiencies or to obtain higher reimbursements and payments from managed care payers, our results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected. Our revenues may decline if federal or state programs reduce our Medicare or Medicaid payments or managed care companies reduce our reimbursements. Approximately 36% of our net patient revenues for the year ended June 30, 2006 came from Medicare and Medicaid programs, excluding Medicare and Medicaid managed plans. In recent years, federal and state governments have made significant changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Some of those changes adversely affect the reimbursement we receive for certain services. In addition, due to budget deficits in many states, significant decreases in state funding for Medicaid programs have occurred or are being proposed. In recent years, Congress and some state legislatures have introduced a number of other proposals to make major changes in the healthcare system. For instance, Medicare-reimbursed, hospital outpatient services converted to a prospective payment system on August 1, 2000. This system creates limitations on levels of payment for a substantial portion of hospital outpatient procedures. Future federal and state legislation may further reduce the payments we receive for our services. A number of states have adopted legislation designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures. Some states have enrolled Medicaid recipients in managed care programs (which generally tend to reduce the level of hospital utilization) and have imposed additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states’ Medicaid systems. Some states have also reduced the scope of Medicaid eligibility and coverage, making an increasing number of residents unable to pay for their care. Other states have proposed to take similar steps. In addition, insurance and managed care companies and other third parties from whom we receive payment for our services increasingly attempt to control healthcare costs by requiring that hospitals discount their fees in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. We believe that this trend may continue and may reduce the payments we receive for our services. Recently, both the Medicare Program and several large managed care companies have changed our reimbursement to link some of their payments, especially their annual increases in payments, to performance of quality of care measures. We expect this trend to “pay-for-performance” to increase in the future. If we are unable to meet these performance measures, our results of operations and cash flow will be materially adversely affected. 36 We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that could reduce our revenues and profitability. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to licensing, the conduct of operations, the ownership of facilities, the addition of facilities and services, financial arrangements with physicians and other referral sources, confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records, billing for services and prices for services. If a determination were made that we were in material violation of such laws or regulations, our operations and financial results could be materially adversely affected. In many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretations of these laws and regulations. This is particularly true in the case of Medicare and Medicaid statute codified under section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act and known as the “Anti-Kickback Statute.” This law prohibits providers and other person or entities from soliciting, receiving, offering or paying, directly or indirectly, any remuneration with the intent to generate referrals of orders for services or items reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. As authorized by Congress, the United States Department of Health and Human Services has issued regulations which describe some of the conduct and business relationships immune from prosecution under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The fact that a given business arrangement does not fall within one of these “safe harbor” provisions does not render the arrangement illegal, but business arrangements of healthcare service providers that fail to satisfy the applicable safe harbor criteria risk increased scrutiny by enforcement authorities. Some of the financial arrangements that our facilities maintain with physicians do not meet all of the requirements for safe harbor protection. The regulatory authorities that enforce the Anti-Kickback Statute may in the future determine that one or more of these arrangements violate the Anti-Kickback Statute or other federal or state laws. A determination that a facility has violated the Anti-Kickback Statute or other federal laws could subject us to liability under the Social Security Act, including criminal and civil penalties, as well as exclusion of the facility from participation in government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. In addition, the portion of the Social Security Act commonly known as the “Stark Law” prohibits physicians from referring Medicare and (to an extent) Medicaid patients to providers of certain “designated health services” if the physician or a member of his or her immediate family has an ownership or investment interest in, or compensation arrangement with, that provider. In addition, the provider in such arrangements is prohibited from billing for all of the designated health services referred by the physician. Many of the services furnished by our facilities are “designated health services” for Stark Law purposes. There are multiple exceptions to the Stark Law, among others, for physicians maintaining an ownership interest in an entire hospital or having a compensation relationship with the facility as a result of employment agreements, leases, physician recruitment and certain other arrangements. However, each of these exceptions applies only if detailed conditions are met. These conditions were the subject of regulations which became effective in July 2004, and little precedent exists for their interpretation or enforcement. An arrangement subject to the Stark Law must qualify for an exception in order for the services to be lawfully referred by the physician and billed by the provider. All of the states in which we operate have adopted or have considered adopting similar anti-kickback and physician self-referral legislation, some of which extends beyond the scope of the federal law to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients and physician self-referrals, regardless of the source of payment for the care. Little precedent exists for the interpretation or enforcement of these laws. Both federal and state government agencies have announced heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts. Government officials responsible for enforcing healthcare laws could assert that one or more of our facilities, or any of the transactions in which we are involved, are in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute or the Stark Law and related state law exceptions. It is also possible that the courts could ultimately interpret these laws in a manner that is different from our interpretations. Moreover, other healthcare companies, alleged to have violated these laws, have paid significant sums to settle such allegations and entered into “corporate integrity agreements” because of concern that the government might exercise its authority to exclude those providers from governmental payment programs (Medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE). A determination that one or more of our facilities has violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could 37 have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. Illinois and Massachusetts require governmental determinations of need (“Certificates of Need”) prior to the purchase of major medical equipment or the construction, expansion, closure, sale or change of control of healthcare facilities. We believe our facilities have obtained appropriate certificates wherever applicable. However, if a determination were made that we were in material violation of such laws, our operations and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The governmental determinations, embodied in Certificates of Need, can also affect our facilities’ ability to add bed capacity or important services. We cannot predict whether we will be able to obtain required Certificates of Need in the future. A failure to obtain any required Certificates of Need may impair our ability to operate the affected facility profitably. The laws, rules and regulations described above are complex and subject to interpretation. If we are in violation of any of these laws, rules or regulations, or if further changes in the regulatory framework occur, our results of operations could be significantly harmed. For a more detailed discussion of the laws, rules and regulations described above, see “Business – Government Regulation and Other Factors.” Providers in the healthcare industry have been the subject of federal and state investigations, whistleblower lawsuits and class action litigation, and we may become subject to investigations, whistleblower lawsuits or class action litigation in the future. Both federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of hospital companies, as well as their executives and managers. These investigations relate to a wide variety of topics, including: • cost reporting and billing practices; • laboratory and home healthcare services; • physician ownership of, and joint ventures with, hospitals; • physician recruitment activities; and • other financial arrangements with referral sources In addition, the federal False Claims Act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. Defendants determined to be liable under the False Claims Act may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. Typically, each fraudulent bill submitted by a provider is considered a separate false claim, and thus the penalties under false claims may be substantial. Liability arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. In some cases, whistleblowers or the federal government have taken the position that providers who allegedly have violated other statutes and have submitted claims to a governmental payer during the time period they allegedly violated these other statutes, have thereby submitted false claims under the False Claims Act. Some states have adopted similar whistleblower and false claims provisions. The Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Justice have, from time to time, established national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Initiatives include a focus on hospital billing for outpatient charges associated with inpatient services, as well as hospital laboratory billing practices. As a result of these regulations and initiatives, some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. For example, we have significant Medicare and Medicaid billings, we provide some durable medical equipment and home healthcare services, and we have joint venture arrangements involving physician investors. We also have a variety of other financial arrangements with physicians and other potential referral sources including recruitment arrangements and leases. In addition, our executives and managers, many of whom have worked at other healthcare companies that are or may become the subject of federal and state investigations and private litigation, could be included in governmental investigations or named as defendants in private litigation. We are aware that several of our hospitals or their related healthcare operations were and may still be under investigation in connection with activities 38 conducted prior to our acquisition of them. Under the terms of our various acquisition agreements, the prior owners of our hospitals are responsible for any liabilities arising from pre-closing violations. The prior owners’ resolution of these matters or failure to resolve these matters, in the event that any resolution was deemed necessary, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any investigations of us, our executives, managers, facilities or operations could result in significant liabilities or penalties to us, as well as adverse publicity. We maintain a voluntary compliance program to address health regulatory and other compliance requirements. This program includes initial and periodic ethics and compliance training and effectiveness reviews, a toll-free hotline for employees to report, without fear of retaliation, any suspected legal or ethical violations, annual “fraud and abuse” audits to look at all of our financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and annual “coding audits” to make sure our hospitals bill the proper service codes in respect of obtaining payment from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. As an element of our corporate compliance program and our internal compliance audits, from time to time we make voluntary disclosures and repayments to the Medicare and Medicaid programs and/or to the federal and/or state regulators for these programs in the ordinary course of business. At the current time, we know of no active investigations by any of these programs or regulators in respect of our disclosures or repayments, except as set forth below. All of these voluntary actions on our part could lead to an investigation by the regulators to determine whether any of our facilities have violated the Stark Law, the Anti-Kickback Statute, the False Claims Act or similar state law. Either an investigation or initiation of administrative or judicial actions could result in a public announcement of possible violations of the Stark Law, the Anti-Kickback Statute or the False Claims Act or similar state law. Such determination or announcements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. Additionally, several hospital companies have recently been named defendants in class action litigation alleging, among other things, that their charge structures are fraudulent and, under state law, unfair or deceptive practices, insofar as those hospitals charge insurers lower rates than those charged to uninsured patients. We cannot assure you that we will not be named as a defendant in litigation of this type. Furthermore, the outcome of these suits may affect the industry standard for charity care policies and any response we take may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In June 2006 we and two other hospital systems operating in San Antonio, Texas had a putative class action lawsuit brought against all of us alleging that we and the other defendants has conspired with each other and with other unidentified San Antonio area hospitals to depress the compensation levels of registered nurses employed at the competing hospitals within the San Antonio area by engaging in certain activities that violated the federal antitrust laws. See “Item 3- Legal Proceedings” for further discussion of this litigation. On the same day that this litigation was brought against us and two other hospital systems in San Antonio, substantially similar litigation was brought against multiple hospitals in three other cities. Competition from other hospitals or healthcare providers (especially specialty hospitals) may reduce our patient volumes and profitability. The healthcare business is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients has intensified in recent years. Generally, other hospitals in the local communities served by most of our hospitals provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. In addition, we believe the number of freestanding specialty hospitals and surgery and diagnostic centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly in recent years. As a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. Some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments and charitable contributions and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. Increasingly, we are facing competition from physician-owned specialty hospitals and freestanding surgery centers that compete for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. If our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volumes. 39 PHP also faces competition within the Arizona market that it serves. As in the case of our hospitals, some of our competitors in this market are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations that have greater financial resources than we do. Other competitors have larger membership bases, are more established and have greater geographic coverage areas that give them an advantage in competing for a limited pool of eligible health plan members. The revenues we derive from PHP could significantly decrease if new plans operating under AHCCCS enter the market or other existing AHCCCS plans increase their number of enrollees. Moreover, a failure to attract future enrollees may negatively impact our ability to maintain our profitability in this market. Our hospitals face a growth in uncompensated care as the result of the inability of uninsured patients to pay for healthcare services and difficulties in collecting patient portions of insured accounts. Like others in the hospital industry, we have experienced an increase in uncompensated care. Our combined provision for doubtful accounts and charity care deductions as a percentage of patient service revenues increased from 10.4% during fiscal 2004, to 10.7% during fiscal 2005 and to 11.2% during fiscal 2006. While our self pay discharges as a percentage of total discharges decreased from 3.3% during fiscal 2004 to 3.1% during fiscal 2005, they increased to 3.3% during fiscal 2006. Our hospitals remain at risk for increases in uncompensated care as a result of price increases, the continuing trend of increases in co-payment and deductible portions of managed care accounts and increases in uninsured patients as a result of potential state Medicaid funding cuts or general economic weakness. Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. The success of our hospitals depends in part on the following factors: • the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals; • the admitting practices of those physicians; and • the maintenance of good relations with those physicians. We generally do not employ physicians. Most physicians at our hospitals also have admitting privileges at other hospitals. If facilities are not staffed with adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment that meets the needs of patients, physicians may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, which could adversely affect our profitability. We may be unable to achieve our acquisition and growth strategy and we may have difficulty acquiring not-for-profit hospitals due to regulatory scrutiny. An important element of our business strategy is expansion by acquiring hospitals in our existing and in new urban and suburban markets and by entering into partnerships or affiliations with other healthcare service providers. The competition to acquire hospitals is significant, including competition from healthcare companies with greater financial resources than ours, and we may not be able to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms, and we may have difficulty obtaining financing, if necessary, for such acquisitions on satisfactory terms. We sometimes agree not to sell an acquired hospital for some period of time (currently no longer than 10 years) after closing and/or grant the seller a right of first refusal to purchase the hospital if we agree to sell it to a third party. In addition, we may not be able to effectively integrate any acquired facilities with our operations. Even if we continue to acquire additional facilities and/or enter into partnerships or affiliations with other healthcare service providers, federal and state regulatory agencies may constrain our ability to grow. Additionally, many states, including some where we have hospitals and others where we may in the future attempt to acquire hospitals, have adopted legislation regarding the sale or other disposition of hospitals operated by not-for-profit entities. In other states that do not have specific legislation, the attorneys general have demonstrated an interest in these transactions under their general obligations to protect charitable assets from waste. These legislative and administrative efforts focus primarily on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the sale proceeds by the not-for-profit seller. These review and approval processes can add time to the consummation of an acquisition of a not-for profit hospital, and future actions on the state level could seriously delay or even prevent future acquisitions of not-for-profit hospitals. Furthermore, as a condition to approving an acquisition, the attorney general of the state in which the hospital is located may require us to maintain specific 40 services, such as emergency departments, or to continue to provide specific levels of charity care, which may affect our decision to acquire or the terms upon which we acquire one of these hospitals. Difficulties with integrating our acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations. We may not be able to profitably or effectively integrate the operations of, or otherwise achieve the intended benefits from, any acquisitions we make or partnerships or affiliations we may form. The process of integrating acquired hospitals may require a disproportionate amount of management’s time and attention, potentially distracting management from its day-to-day responsibilities. This process may be even more difficult in the case of hospitals we may acquire out of bankruptcy or otherwise in financial distress. In addition, poor integration of acquired facilities could cause interruptions to our business activities, including those of the acquired facilities. As a result, we may incur significant costs related to acquiring or integrating these facilities and may not realize the anticipated benefits. Moreover, acquired businesses may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations. We could in the future become liable for past activities of acquired businesses and these liabilities could be material. Our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and staff personnel responsible for the day-to-day operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other non-physician healthcare professionals. In the healthcare industry generally, including in our markets, the scarcity of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue. This shortage may require us to increase wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. We have raised on several occasions in the past, and expect to raise in the future, wages for our nurses and other medical support personnel. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. In addition, to the extent that a significant additional portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase materially. If our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. Because approximately 86% of our net patient revenues for the year ended June 30, 2006, consisted of payments based on fixed or negotiated rates, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control our labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The cost of our malpractice insurance and the malpractice insurance of physicians who practice at our facilities remains volatile. Successful malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our physicians or our employees could materially adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. Hospitals and physicians have typically maintained a special type of insurance (commonly called malpractice or professional liability insurance) to protect against the costs of these types of legal actions. Due to unfavorable pricing and availability trends, we created a captive insurance subsidiary on June 1, 2002, to assume a substantial portion of the professional and general liability risks of our facilities. For claims incurred during the period June 1, 2002 to May 31, 2006, we maintain all of our professional and general liability insurance through this captive insurance subsidiary in respect of losses up to $10.0 million per occurrence. For claims incurred subsequent to May 31, 2006, we self-insure the first $9.0 million per occurrence, and our captive subsidiary insures the next $1.0 million per occurrence. We have also purchased an umbrella excess policy for professional and general liability insurance for the period June 1, 2006 to May 31, 2007 with unrelated commercial carriers. This policy covers losses in excess of $10.0 million per occurrence up to $75.0 million, but is limited to total annual payments of $65.0 million in the aggregate. While premium prices have declined during the past two years, the total cost of professional and general liability insurance remains sensitive to the volume and severity of cases reported. There is no guarantee that excess insurance coverage will continue to be available in the future at a cost allowing us to maintain adequate levels of such insurance. Moreover, due to the 41 increased retention limits insured by us and our captive subsidiary, if actual payments of claims materially exceed our projected estimates of malpractice claims, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, physicians’ professional liability insurance costs have dramatically increased to the point where some physicians are either choosing to retire early or leave certain markets. If physician professional liability insurance costs continue to escalate in markets in which we operate, some physicians may choose not to practice at our facilities, which could reduce our patient volumes and revenues. Our hospitals may also incur a greater percentage of the amounts paid to claimants if physicians are unable to obtain adequate malpractice coverage. We are subject to uncertainties regarding healthcare reform that could materially and adversely affect our business. In recent years, an increasing number of legislative initiatives have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in state legislatures that would result in major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Among the proposals that have been introduced are price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of a government health insurance plan or plans that would cover all citizens and increase payments by beneficiaries. Increased regulations, mandated benefits and more oversight, audits and investigations and changes in laws allowing access to federal and state courts to challenge healthcare decisions may increase our administrative, litigation and healthcare costs. We cannot predict whether any of the above proposals or any other proposals will be adopted, and if adopted, we cannot assure you that the implementation of these reforms will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. A reduction in inpatient services may reduce our revenues. Technological advances have enabled procedures that were previously performed on an inpatient basis to now be provided on an outpatient basis. In addition, through a process known as “utilization review”, third party payers focus on reducing inpatient admissions and lengths of stay to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. The resulting increase in surgeries performed on an outpatient basis has reduced inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates at our hospitals and, as a result, has adversely affected hospital revenues. We expect this trend of migration to outpatient settings to continue for certain inpatient procedures and anticipate that efforts to impose more stringent controls and competition for outpatient services will remain intense during the foreseeable future. However, we expect the aging of the baby boomer population to help offset this decrease in inpatient utilization. Our facilities are concentrated in a small number of regions. If any one of the regions in which we operate experiences a regulatory change, economic downturn or other material change, our overall business results may suffer. Among our operations as of June 30, 2006, five hospitals and various related healthcare businesses were located in San Antonio, Texas; six hospitals and related healthcare businesses were located in metropolitan Phoenix, Arizona; two hospitals and related healthcare businesses were located in metropolitan Chicago, Illinois; three hospitals and related healthcare businesses were located in Orange County, California; and three hospitals and related healthcare businesses were located in Massachusetts. For the year ended June 30, 2006, our total revenues were generated as follows: 42 Year Ended June 30, 2006 San Antonio 27.7 % Metropolitan Phoenix, excluding Phoenix Health Plan and Abrazo Advantage Health Plan 20.1 Phoenix Health Plan and Abrazo Advantage Health Plan 12.3 Metropolitan Chicago (1) 14.5 Orange County 7.0 Massachusetts 18.4 100.0 % ____________________ (1) Includes MacNeal Health Providers. Any material change in the current demographic, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions in any of these regions could adversely affect our overall business results because of the significance of our operations in each of these regions to our overall operating performance. Moreover, due to the concentration of our revenues in only five regions, our business is less diversified and, accordingly, is subject to greater regional risk than that of some of our larger competitors. California has statutes and regulations that require hospitals to meet seismic performance standards, and hospitals that do not meet the standards may be required to retrofit their facilities. Assuming the expected sale of the California hospitals is not completed, our estimated cost to comply with the seismic regulations and standards required by 2013 is $14.8 million. Upon completion of the $14.8 million in improvements, our California facilities would be compliant with the requirements of the seismic regulations through 2029. We estimate that the majority of the square footage in our facilities would be compliant with the seismic regulations and standards required by 2030 once we had completed such $14.8 million in improvements, but we are unable at this time to estimate our costs for full compliance with the 2030 requirements. Moreover, in the event that our California facilities are found not to be in compliance with these seismic standards, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to bring the California facilities into compliance, which could impact our financial position negatively. If we are unable to control our healthcare costs at Phoenix Health Plan and Abrazo Advantage Health Plan, if the health plans should lose their governmental contracts or if budgetary cuts reduce the scope of Medicaid or dual-eligibility coverage, our profitability may be adversely affected. For the year ended June 30, 2006, PHP generated approximately 11.5% of our total revenues. PHP derives substantially all of its revenues through a contract with AHCCCS. AHCCCS pays capitated rates to PHP, and PHP subcontracts with physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers to provide services to its enrollees. If we fail to effectively manage our healthcare costs, these costs may exceed the payments we receive. Many factors can cause actual healthcare costs to exceed the capitated rates paid by AHCCCS, including: • our ability to contract with cost-effective healthcare providers; • the increased cost of individual healthcare services; • the type and number of individual healthcare services delivered; and • the occurrence of catastrophes, epidemics or other unforeseen occurrences Our current contract with AHCCCS expires September 30, 2007 with one additional one-year renewal and is terminable without cause on 90 days’ written notice from AHCCCS or for cause upon written notice from AHCCCS if we fail to comply with any term or condition of the contract or fail to take corrective action as required to comply with the terms of the contract. AHCCCS may also terminate the contract with PHP in the event of unavailability of state or federal funding. As other health plans attempt to enter the Arizona market, we may face increased competition. If we are unable to renew, successfully rebid or compete for our contract with AHCCCS, or if our contract is terminated, our profitability would be adversely affected by the loss of these revenues and cash flows. Also, should the scope of the Medicaid program be reduced as a result of state budgetary cuts or other political factors, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 43 For the year ended June 30, 2006, AAHP generated 0.8% of our total revenues. AAHP began providing healthcare coverage to Medicare and Medicaid dual-eligible enrollees on January 1, 2006. Most of AAHP’s members were formerly enrolled in PHP. AAHP’s contract with CMS went into effect on January 1, 2006, for a term of one year, with a provisions for successive one year renewals. If we fail to effectively manage AAHP’s healthcare costs, these costs may exceed the payments we receive. We may fail to comply with the privacy, security and electronic transaction requirements under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and we may be materially adversely affected as a result. Enforcement of the final regulations governing the privacy of health information under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) began in April 2003. The enforcing agency, the Office of Civil Rights (“OCR”) of the Department of Health and Human Services, has announced a complaint based and compliance improvement type enforcement program. A violation of the HIPAA regulations could result in civil monetary penalties of $100 per incident, up to a maximum of $25,000 per person per year per standard. HIPAA also provides for criminal penalties of up to $50,000 and one year in prison for knowingly and improperly obtaining or disclosing protected health information, up to $100,000 and five years in prison for obtaining protected health information under false pretenses, and up to $250,000 and ten years in prison for obtaining or disclosing protected health information with the intent to sell, transfer or use such information for commercial advantage, personal gain or malicious harm. Since there is no significant history of enforcement efforts by the OCR at this time, it is not possible to ascertain the likelihood of enforcement efforts in connection with the HIPAA regulations or the potential for fines and penalties that may result from the violation of the regulations. The HIPAA regulations establishing standardized code sets and formats for financial and clinical electronic data interchange (“EDI”) transactions among health plans and providers required compliance by October 1, 2005. As of the date of this report, we believe that we can receive and make the specified transmissions in HIPAA compliant format and all of our facilities are filing their Medicare claims in HIPAA compliant format. However, there is no assurance that we can continue making these compliant transactions. The compliance date of HIPAA regulations requiring us to establish administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic protected health information pursuant to the findings of our risk analyses was April 21, 2005. While we think we are in compliance with such regulations, we are continually in the process of conducting the mandated risk analyses and determining whether any gaps in safeguards exist. Significant administrative and financial resources could be required to address any such gaps, including costs from making changes to our information systems. We are dependent on our senior management team and local management personnel, and the loss of the services of one or more of our senior management team or key local management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. The success of our business is largely dependent upon the services and management experience of our senior management team, which includes Charles N. Martin, Jr., our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Kent H. Wallace, our President and Chief Operating Officer; Joseph D. Moore, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; and Keith B. Pitts, our Vice Chairman. In addition, we depend on our ability to attract and retain local managers at our hospitals and related facilities, on the ability of our senior officers and key employees to manage growth successfully and on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any of our officers. If we were to lose any of our senior management team or members of our local management teams, or if we are unable to attract other necessary personnel in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were to lose the services of one or more members of our senior management team or a significant portion of our hospital management staff at one or more of our hospitals, we would likely experience a significant disruption in our operations and failure of the affected hospitals to adhere to their respective business plans. 44 Changes in legislation may significantly reduce government healthcare spending and our revenues. Governmental healthcare programs, principally Medicare and Medicaid, accounted for 38% and 36% of our net patient revenues (excluding managed Medicare and Medicaid programs) for the years ended June 30, 2005 and 2006, respectively. In recent years, legislative changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of, payments to healthcare providers for certain services under many of these government programs. Further, legislative changes have altered the method of payment for various services under the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We believe that hospital operating margins across the country, including ours, have been and may continue to be under pressure because of limited pricing flexibility and growth in operating expenses in excess of the increase in prospective payments under the Medicare program. The fiscal year 2006 budget approved by Congress contemplates an approximately $10 billion reduction in federal Medicaid funding over five years. DRA 2005 passed in February 2006 reduces federal funding for Medicare and Medicaid by approximately $11 billion over the next five years. In addition, a number of states are experiencing budget problems and have adopted or are considering legislation designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures and to provide universal coverage and additional care, including enrolling Medicaid recipients in managed care programs and imposing additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand states’ Medicaid systems. If we continue to experience growth in self-pay volumes and revenues, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Like others in the hospital industry, we have experienced an increase in our combined provision for bad debts and charity care as a percentage of patient service revenues due to a growth in self-pay volumes and revenues resulting in large part from an increase in the number of uninsured patients, along with an increase in the amount of co-payments and deductibles passed on by employers to employees. Although we continue to seek ways to improve point of service collection efforts and implement appropriate payment plans with our patients, if we continue to experience growth in self-pay volumes and revenues, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, our ability to improve collections for self-pay patients may be limited by regulatory and investigatory initiatives, including private lawsuits directed at hospital charges and collection practices for uninsured and underinsured patients. Controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. Controls imposed by third-party payers designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as “utilization review,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. Utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressures to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. Although we are unable to predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. If we fail to continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. Technological advances with respect to computed axial tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) equipment, as well as other equipment used in our facilities, are continually evolving. In an effort to compete with other healthcare providers, we must constantly evaluate our equipment needs and upgrade equipment as a result of technological improvements. Such equipment costs typically range from $1.0 million to $3.0 million, exclusive of construction or build-out costs. Compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may negatively impact our results of operations and failure to comply may subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of investors’ confidence in our internal control over financial reporting. 45 Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and our auditor to attest to such evaluation beginning with our fiscal year 2008. Compliance with these requirements, and any changes in our internal control over financial reporting in response to our internal evaluations, may be expensive and time-consuming and may negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet the required deadlines for compliance with Section 404. Any failure on our part to meet the required compliance deadlines may subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting. A failure of our information systems would adversely affect our ability to properly manage our operations. We rely on our advanced information systems and our ability to successfully use these systems in our operations. These systems are essential to the following areas of our business operations, among others: • patient accounting, including billing and collection of patient service revenues; • financial, accounting, reporting and payroll; coding and compliance; • laboratory, radiology and pharmacy systems; • negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts; and • monitoring quality of care. If we are unable to use these systems effectively, we may experience delays in collection of patient service revenues and may not be able to properly manage our operations or oversee the compliance with laws or regulations. Abrazo Advantage’s contract with CMS to become a Medicare advantage prescription drug special needs plan may result in reduced profitability. Effective January 1, 2006, CMS awarded AAHP a contract to become a Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug Special Needs Plan. The contract allows AAHP to offer Medicare coverage for its approximately 3,500 dual-eligible members, or those that are eligible for Medicare and Medicaid. In calendar year 2005 PHP served substantially all of these members through the AHCCCS Medicaid program. AAHP offers its members Medicare and Part D drug benefit coverage under this new contract as well as coverage under the AHCCCS Medicaid program. As with any new product line, there are risks and uncertainties. For example, in these types of health plans, members are allowed to change health plans on a monthly basis, making it difficult to project whether AAHP will be able to retain its current membership throughout the next year. Additionally, the payment structure for paying Medicare claims under this type of health plan differs from Arizona Medicaid claims, making it difficult to project the cost of providing care under this new plan. Difficulties with current construction projects or new construction projects such as additional hospitals or major expansion projects may involve significant capital expenditures which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. We currently are constructing six major expansion projects at our hospitals. The total budgeted cost to construct these projects is currently estimated to be approximately $333.5 million, of which as of June 30, 2006 we have spent approximately $235.8 million. Thus, we currently expect to incur approximately an additional $97.7 million in capital expenditures through fiscal 2008 related to completion of the construction of these six projects. In addition, we may decide to construct an additional hospital or hospitals in the future or construct additional major expansion projects. Our ability to complete construction of these six current construction projects on our anticipated budget and schedule or to complete the construction of new hospitals or new expansion projects on budget and schedule would depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: 46 • our ability to control construction costs; • the failure of general contractors or subcontractors to perform under their contracts; • adverse weather conditions; • shortages of labor or materials; • our ability to obtain necessary licensing and other required governmental authorizations; and • other unforeseen problems and delays. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot assure you that we will not experience increased construction costs on our construction projects or that we will be able to construct our current or any future construction projects as originally planned. In addition, our current and any future major construction projects has and would involve a significant commitment of capital with no revenues associated with the projects during construction, which also could have in the future an adverse impact on our liquidity. The costs for construction materials and labor continue to rise, and such increased costs could have an adverse impact on the return on investment relating to our new hospital and other expansion projects. The cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased recently as a result of global and domestic events. We have experienced significant increases in the cost of steel due to the demand in China for such materials and an increase in the cost of lumber due to multiple catastrophic hurricanes in the United States. As we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, we expend large sums of cash generated from operating activities. We evaluate the financial viability of such projects based on whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital. Such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or anticipated volumes do not materialize. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of hospitals could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. Some states require healthcare providers to obtain prior approval, known as certificates of need, for: • the purchase, construction or expansion of healthcare facilities; • capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount; or • changes in services or bed capacity. In giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services. Illinois and Massachusetts are the only states in which we currently own hospitals that have certificate of need laws. The failure to obtain any required certificate of need could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. If the fair value of our reporting units declines, a material non-cash charge to earnings from impairment of our goodwill could result. Blackstone acquired our predecessor company during fiscal 2005. We recorded a significant portion of the purchase price as goodwill. At June 30, 2006, we had approximately $815.8 million of goodwill recorded on our books. We expect to recover the carrying value of this goodwill through our future cash flows. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate, based on the fair value of our reporting units, whether the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired. If the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired, we may incur a material non-cash charge to earnings. 47 Additional Risk Factors See the additional risks related to our business in “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations – General Trends” which are incorporated by reference in this Item 1A as if fully set forth herein. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our internet website at www.vanguardhealth.com under “Investor Relations-SEC Filings-SEC Filings on the Edgar Database” as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 