Item 1A. RISK FACTORS This Report, including the Financial Supplement, contains, and our other public communications may contain, projections or other "forward-looking" information; that is, information related to future, not past, events. Such information generally includes the words "believes," "plans," "intends," "targets," "will," "expects," "anticipates," or similar expressions and includes all statements regarding our Chapter 11 proceeding, expected financial position, results of operations, cash flows, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, capital and other expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities for existing products, benefits from new technology and cost reduction initiatives, plans and objectives of management and markets for securities. For these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Like other businesses, we are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our projections or that could cause other forward-looking information to prove incorrect. Factors that could cause actual events to materially differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements include those factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further, our reported results should not be considered as an indication of our future performance. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our projections and forward-looking information, which speak only as of the date thereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the projections and forward-looking information contained in this document, or to update them to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this 19 Table of Contents document. In addition to general economic, business and market conditions, we are subject to other risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, the following: COMPANY RISKS Our proposed joint plan of reorganization, if it becomes effective, may substantially impact the value of currently outstanding shares of Grace common stock. On January 31, 2012, the United States District Court for the District of Delaware issued an order confirming the Joint Plan. The Joint Plan is designed to address all pending and future asbestos-related claims and all other pre-petition claims as outlined therein. The Joint Plan provides for the issuance to the asbestos personal injury trust of a warrant to purchase 10 million shares of Grace common stock at a price of $17 per share. If the Joint Plan becomes effective and this warrant is exercised, it will dilute the ownership interests of holders of currently outstanding Grace common stock and may adversely affect the value of such common stock. If our proposed joint plan of reorganization does not become effective, the outcome of our Chapter 11 cases could result in the substantial dilution or cancellation of Grace's currently outstanding common stock. Certain parties-in-interest in our Chapter 11 case have objected to several provisions of the Joint Plan. Appeals may be filed in the federal appellate court challenging the District Court order confirming the Joint Plan. If any such appeals are resolved adversely to Grace and the other Joint Plan proponents, the Joint Plan may not become effective. Further, the effectiveness of the Joint Plan is subject to the fulfillment of numerous conditions, which may not ultimately be fulfilled. If the Joint Plan does not become effective, the outcome of our Chapter 11 cases would depend primarily upon the resolution of our asbestos-related and other contingent liabilities. We would likely return to the bankruptcy court estimation trial that was suspended in April 2008. We expect that the estimate resulting from this process would form the basis for a plan of reorganization that would provide for the funding of one or more trusts to which all pending and future asbestos-related claims would be channeled. If the amount of our asbestos-related liabilities, as determined through estimation or otherwise, and other liabilities exceeded the assets available for funding, then we likely would issue shares of Grace common stock to satisfy such liabilities under such plan of reorganization resulting in substantial dilution of the interests of current Grace shareholders. Alternatively, such plan of reorganization might provide for the cancellation of the interests of current Grace shareholders. Because of this risk of substantial dilution or cancellation, the value of Grace common stock is highly speculative and any investment in Grace common stock poses a high degree of risk. Appeals of the order confirming the Joint Plan could materially affect the timing and terms of our emergence from bankruptcy. Appeals may be filed in the federal appellate court challenging the district court order confirming the Joint Plan. Matters that may be appealed include, without limitation: whether certain creditors are entitled to interest at rates higher than provided for in the Joint Plan; whether the Joint Plan impairs insurers' contractual rights; the validity of the asbestos trust structure called for in the Joint Plan; and the classification and treatment of claims under the Joint Plan. Any such appeals may take a significant period of time to resolve and, while they are pending, certain conditions to the effectiveness of the Joint Plan, including for example, payments pursuant to the Sealed Air Settlement and the Fresenius Settlement and the availability of the third-party funding that Grace requires to fund the Joint Plan, might not be satisfied. If any such appeals are resolved adversely to Grace and the other Joint Plan proponents, the Joint Plan may not become effective, which could have a material effect on the terms and timing of Grace's emergence from Chapter 11. 20 Table of Contents The bankruptcy process may disrupt our business. We have attempted to minimize the adverse effect of our Chapter 11 reorganization on our relationships with our employees, suppliers, customers and other parties. Nonetheless, our relationships with our customers, suppliers and employees may be adversely impacted and our operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the continuation of our reorganization could negatively affect our ability to attract new employees and retain existing high performing employees. Chapter 11 limits the flexibility of our management team in running our business. While we operate our businesses as debtor-in-possession under supervision by the bankruptcy court, we are required to obtain the approval of the bankruptcy court prior to engaging in activities or transactions outside the ordinary course of business. For example, our strategic plan includes the acquisition of businesses in the specialty chemicals and specialty building materials industries. Such acquisitions generally require bankruptcy court approval if made by W. R. Grace & Co. or its U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates that are debtors in the Chapter 11 cases. Bankruptcy court approval of non-ordinary course activities entails preparation and filing of appropriate motions with the bankruptcy court, negotiation with the various creditors' committees and other parties-in-interest and one or more hearings. The creditors' and shareholders' committees and other parties-in-interest may be heard at any bankruptcy court hearing and may raise objections with respect to these motions. This process delays major transactions and limits our ability to respond quickly to opportunities and events in the marketplace. Furthermore, in the event the bankruptcy court does not approve a proposed activity or transaction, we would be prevented from engaging in activities and transactions that we believe are beneficial to Grace. Our financial statements do not reflect all terms of the proposed Joint Plan. Our financial statements include estimates of asbestos-related liabilities that are based on the conditions precedent to the amended plan of reorganization that we filed in 2005, the Prior Plan, rather than the Joint Plan. The Joint Plan may result in substantially different amounts for the asbestos-related liabilities in our financial statements. When we adjust our financial statements based on the Joint Plan or another plan that is filed and/or confirmed, such adjustments could be material to our consolidated financial position and results of operations. We may not be able to collect all asbestos-related insurance payments that may be due to us. We have insurance coverage for a portion of the asbestos-related claims against us. We estimate that, assuming an ultimate payout of asbestos-related claims equal to the $1,700 million of asbestos-related liabilities recorded on our balance sheet, our insurance policies should provide approximately $500 million of insurance recovery. Under the Joint Plan, these insurance policies would be assigned to the asbestos personal injury trust established under the Joint Plan. However, if the Joint Plan does not become effective, these policies would remain with us unless assigned to creditors under the terms of another plan of reorganization. The estimated recovery of $500 million pertains only to insurance carriers with which we have asbestos settlement agreements, and/or which are currently solvent and we cannot be sure that all these amounts will be collected. In addition, the timing and amount of future payments depends on the continued solvency of the insurers and the resolution of disputes regarding coverage as well as the nature and timing of actual claims paid. If the Joint Plan does not become effective, the receipt of timely and complete payments from the insurers would be important to the success of our reorganization. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental clean-up fines, penalties and damage claims that have been and continue to be costly. Grace is subject to lawsuits and regulatory actions, in connection with current and former operations (including divested businesses), for breaches of environmental laws that seek clean-up or other remedies. Grace is also subject to lawsuits and investigations by public and private parties under various environmental laws in connection with our current and former operations in various states, including with respect to off-site disposal at facilities where Grace has been identified as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, commonly referred to as CERCLA. We are also subject to similar risks outside of the U.S. Grace operated a vermiculite mine in Libby, Montana until 1990. Some of the vermiculite ore that was mined at the Libby mine contained naturally occurring asbestos. Grace is working in cooperation with EPA to investigate the Libby vermiculite mine and the surrounding bodies of water and forest lands. We do not have sufficient information to estimate the cost of any required remediation of the Libby mine. During 2010, EPA began reinvestigating up to 105 facilities where vermiculite concentrate from the Libby mine was processed. We are cooperating with EPA on this reinvestigation. In late 2011, EPA requested that we conduct additional remediation at seven of these facilities based on revised risk-based criteria developed by EPA. It is probable that EPA will request additional remediation at some other facilities. We do not have sufficient information to identify either the sites that might require additional remediation or estimate the cost of any additional remediation. We will evaluate our estimated remediation liability for other sites as we receive additional information from EPA. We have established accounting accruals for all environmental matters for which a loss is considered to be probable and sufficient information is available to reasonably estimate the loss. We do not have sufficient information to accrue for all of Grace's environmental risks. These accruals do not include the cost to remediate the Libby vermiculite mine or costs related to any additional EPA claims, whether resulting from EPA's reinvestigation of vermiculite facilities or otherwise, which may be material but are not currently estimable. Due to these vermiculite-related matters, it is probable that Grace's ultimate liability for environmental matters will exceed Grace's current estimates by material amounts. Any liability in connection with alleged violations of environmental laws may not be discharged upon confirmation of a plan of reorganization. We are subject to liabilities with respect to businesses that we have divested in the past. Over the years, particularly during the 1980s and 1990s, we divested a substantial number of businesses that were not then consistent with our business strategy. With respect to many of these former businesses, we have contractually agreed to indemnify the buyer against liabilities arising prior to the closing of the transaction, including environmental liabilities. In many cases, we have also retained pension liabilities for the current and former employees of these businesses. Some of these obligations would not be discharged under the Joint Plan. We have recorded liabilities with respect to indemnification obligations that we believe are probable and estimable and retained pension liabilities. As we receive additional information or new claims, our recorded liabilities may change materially. We have unfunded and underfunded pension plan liabilities. We will require current and future operating cash flow to fund these shortfalls. We have no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy these obligations. We maintain U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans covering employees who meet age and service requirements. Our net pension liability and cost is materially affected by the 22 Table of Contents discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the longevity and actuarial profile of our workforce, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the actual and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change in the expected rate of return on plan assets. Assets available to fund the pension benefit obligation of the U.S. advance-funded pension plans at December 31, 2011 were approximately $955 million, or approximately $216 million less than the measured pension benefit obligation on a U.S. GAAP basis. In addition, any changes in the discount rate could result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following years. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost in the following years. The global scope of our operations subjects us to the risks of doing business in foreign countries, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate our business on a global scale with approximately 71% of our 2011 sales outside the United States. We conduct business in over 40 countries and in more than 30 currencies. We currently have many production facilities, research and development facilities and administrative and sales offices located outside North America, including facilities and offices located in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and Latin America. We expect non-U.S. sales to continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue. Accordingly, our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent in non-U.S. operations include the following: •agreements may be more difficult to enforce and receivables more difficult to collect; •foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; •we may have difficulty transferring our profits or capital from foreign operations to other countries where such funds could be more profitably deployed; •foreign governments may nationalize private enterprises; •we may experience unexpected adverse changes in export duties, quotas and tariffs and difficulties in obtaining export licenses; •intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce; •our business and profitability in a particular country could be affected by political or economic repercussions on a domestic, country specific or global level from terrorist activities and the response to such activities; •we may be affected by unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements; and •unanticipated events, such as geopolitical changes, could adversely affect these operations. Our success as a global business will depend, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions by developing, implementing and maintaining policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business. 23 Table of Contents We are exposed to currency exchange rate changes that impact our profitability. We are exposed to currency exchange rate risk through our U.S. and non-U.S. operations. Fluctuations in currencies of other countries, especially the euro, may materially affect our operating results. For example, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the relative prices at which we and our competitors sell products in the same region and the cost of materials used in our operations. A substantial portion of our net sales and assets are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against non-U.S. currencies, at a constant level of business, our reported non-U.S. sales, earnings, assets and liabilities are reduced because the non-U.S. currencies translate into fewer U.S. dollars. We incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiary's functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction risks effectively, or volatility in currency exchange rates may expose our financial condition or results of operations to a significant additional risk. Our ability to use tax deductions to reduce future tax payments may be limited if there is a change in ownership of Grace or if Grace does not generate sufficient U.S. taxable income. Our ability to use future tax deductions, including net operating losses and deductions for the payments contemplated in the Joint Plan (including the deferred payments), may be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if we undergo an ownership change as a result of future changes in the ownership of outstanding Grace common stock. In addition, our ability to use future tax deductions is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in the U.S. In order to preserve these future tax deductions, the bankruptcy court has approved trading restrictions on Grace common stock until the effective date of a plan of reorganization. These restrictions prohibit (without the consent of Grace) a person from acquiring more than 4.75% of the outstanding Grace common stock or, for any person already holding more than 4.75%, from increasing such person's holdings. The Joint Plan provides that under certain circumstances, our Board of Directors would have the authority to impose restrictions on the transfer of Grace common stock with respect to certain 5% shareholders in order to preserve these future tax deductions. We may be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, which could hurt our business. From time to time, we face infringement claims from our competitors or others alleging that our processes or products infringe on their proprietary technologies. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of the claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending and resolving the claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business. If we are found to be infringing on the proprietary technology of others, we may be liable for damages, and we may be required to change our processes, redesign our products, pay others to use the technology or stop using the technology or producing the infringing product. Even if we ultimately prevail, the existence of the lawsuit could prompt our customers to switch to products that are not the subject of infringement suits. 24 Table of Contents While Grace is in bankruptcy, we are not permitted to pay dividends on Grace common stock and following emergence from bankruptcy, we are not likely to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We are not permitted to pay dividends on Grace common stock while we are in bankruptcy. Following emergence from bankruptcy, we may be subject to covenants in connection with our financing arrangements that limit or prevent us from paying dividends. Furthermore, it is likely that following our emergence from bankruptcy, our board of directors will decide to prioritize the investment of our cash flow in our businesses. For the foreseeable future, investors in Grace common stock, in all likelihood, will obtain an economic benefit from their shares only by selling them. INDUSTRY RISKS The length and depth of product and industry business cycles in our segments may result in periods of reduced sales and operating margins, and operating losses. Our operating segments are sensitive to the cyclical nature of the industries they serve. Our construction business is cyclical in response to economic conditions and construction demand and is also seasonal and dependent on favorable weather conditions, with a decrease in construction activity during the winter months. The U.S. residential and global commercial construction industries have experienced a significant downturn in recent years. Additionally, the uncertainty surrounding the euro, the debt crisis, and unrest in the Middle East has significantly affected construction spending in Europe and the Middle East. As a result, we have experienced reduced demand for our specialty construction products and a continuation of this downturn could result in a further reduction of sales and operating margins as well as potential impairments in our Grace Construction Products segment. Prices for certain raw materials and energy are volatile; we may not be able to pass through increases in costs for raw materials and energy or maintain our current pricing levels, which may hurt our profitability. We use petroleum-based materials, metals, natural gas and other materials in the manufacture of our products. Prices for these inputs are volatile and can have a significant effect on our pricing, sales, manufacturing and supply chain strategies as we seek to maximize our profitability. In 2010 and 2011, the price of the rare earth metals used in many of our FCC catalysts increased substantially. In response, we took actions designed to mitigate the effect of these higher prices, including surcharges on the affected products, the introduction of new products with low- and no-rare earth content, and other manufacturing and supply chain actions. These actions had a substantial favorable effect on our Grace Davison sales and segment operating income in 2011. In the 2011 third quarter, rare earth prices reached a peak and have since declined significantly. We are again adjusting our pricing, sales, manufacturing, and supply chain strategies to maximize our profitability based on lower rare earth prices. Our ability to successfully adjust strategies in response to volatile raw material and energy prices is a significant factor in maintaining or improving our profitability. If we are unable to successfully adjust our strategies in response to volatile prices, such volatility could have a negative effect on our sales and earnings in future periods. A substantial portion of our raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply and demand fundamentals change. We attempt to manage exposure to price volatility of major commodities through: •long-term supply contracts; 25 Table of Contents •contracts with customers that permit adjustments for changes in prices of commodity-based materials and energy; •forward buying programs that layer in our expected requirements systematically over time; and •limited use of financial instruments. Although we regularly assess our exposure to raw material price volatility, we cannot always predict the prospects of volatility and we cannot always cover the risk in a cost effective manner. We have a policy of maintaining, when available, multiple sources of supply for raw materials. However, certain of our raw materials may be provided by single sources of supply. We may not be able to obtain sufficient raw materials due to unforeseen developments that would cause an interruption in supply. Even if we have multiple sources of supply for raw materials, these sources may not make up for the loss of a major supplier. We spend large amounts of money for environmental compliance in connection with our current and former operations. As a manufacturer of specialty chemicals and specialty materials, we are subject to stringent regulations under numerous U.S. federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, discharge, disposition and stewardship of hazardous wastes and other materials. We have expended substantial funds to comply with such laws and regulations and have established a policy to minimize our emissions to the environment. Nevertheless, legislative, regulatory and economic uncertainties (including existing and potential laws and regulations pertaining to climate change) make it difficult for us to project future spending for these purposes and if there is an acceleration in new regulatory requirements, we may be required to expend substantial additional funds to remain in compliance. We work with dangerous materials that can injure our employees, damage our facilities and disrupt our operations. Some of our operations involve the handling of hazardous materials that may pose the risk of fire, explosion, or the release of hazardous substances. Such events could result from terrorist attacks, natural disasters, or operational failures, and might cause injury or loss of life to our employees and others, environmental contamination, and property damage. These events might cause a temporary shutdown of an affected plant, or portion thereof, and we could be subject to penalties or claims as a result. A disruption of our operations caused by these or other events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of our employees are unionized, represented by workers' councils or employed subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws in the United States. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 6,300 global employees. Approximately 750 of our approximately 2,700 U.S. employees are unionized. In addition, a large number of our employees are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other rights to employees than the laws in the United States. Such employment rights require us to work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect any changes to labor arrangements. For example, most of our employees in Europe are represented by workers' councils that have co-determination rights on any changes in conditions of employment, including salaries and benefits and staff changes, and may impede efforts to restructure our workforce. Collective bargaining agreements with unions representing employees at several of our facilities are scheduled to expire during 2012 and we expect that they will require renegotiation. A strike, work stoppage or slowdown by our employees or significant dispute with our employees, whether or not related to these negotiations, could result in a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs. 26 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 