Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating our business, prospective investors and shareholders should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this Form 10-K or in the documents referred to in this Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition and result in a complete loss of your investment. Our recent acquisition of On2 Finland could expose us to new risks, disrupt our business, and adversely impact our results of operations. On November 1, 2007 we completed the acquisition of On2 Finland. The integration of On2 Finland may divert the attention of management and other key personnel from other core business operations, which could adversely impact our financial performance in the near term. Moreover, the integration of On2 Finland’s operations into our company will require expansions to our system of internal controls over financial reporting. Any failure to successfully operate and integrate On2 Finland could have an adverse effect on our operations. Additional goodwill and other intangible assets reported on our balance sheet as a result of our acquisition of On2 Finland may become impaired at a future date and accordingly require us to record a loss in the amount of the impairment in our results of operations. During 2008, the global economy dramatically weakened, which, among other factors, has contributed to the continued underperformance of our On2 Finland business and a decline in our overall market value. Based on these circumstances, at September 30, 2008, the Company performed impairment reviews of its goodwill and intangible assets related to its On2 Finland business. The Company performed an analysis of the expected future cash flows of the business and based on the results of this evaluation, the Company determined that goodwill and other intangibles are impaired. Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment charge during the quarter ended September 30, 2008, totaling $20,265,000 (goodwill) and $5,980,000 (intangible assets), to reduce their carrying value to an amount that is expected to be recoverable. During the quarter ended December 31, 2008, the global economy continued to weaken, which necessitated an additional impairment analysis. Based on the results of the additional evaluation, the Company has determined that goodwill and other intangibles are further impaired. Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment charge during the quarter ended December 31, 2008, totaling $6,216,000 (goodwill) and $807,000 (intangible assets), to reduce their carrying value to an amount that is expected to be recoverable. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we will test the goodwill and other intangible asset amounts at regular intervals to determine whether the value of On2 Finland exceeds this amount. To the extent that it does not, we will be forced to make an additional corresponding reduction in the carrying value of its goodwill or other intangible assets, and will also be required to take a corresponding charge against earnings for the period in which we recorded the impairment. The size of any additional impairment could be significant, and could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial position of us, as well as on the trading price of its shares. We may fail to realize the benefits expected from the business combination with On2 Finland, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. The business combination involves the integration of On2 and On2 Finland, two companies that have previously operated independently. On2 and On2 Finland entered into the Share Exchange Agreement with the expectation that, among other things, the business combination would enable the combined company to consolidate support functions, leverage its research and development, patents and services across a larger base, and integrate its workforce, to create opportunities to achieve cost savings and to become a stronger and more competitive company. There can be no assurance that the combined company will actually realize these or any other anticipated benefits of the business combination. 22 The value of our common stock may be affected by our ability to achieve the benefits expected to result from the business combination. The combined company currently operates in several countries, with a combined workforce of approximately 106 employees. Achieving the benefits of the business combination will depend in part upon meeting the challenges inherent in the successful combination and integration of global business enterprises of the size and scope of On2 and On2 Finland. The challenges involved in this integration include the following: ● demonstrating to our customers that the business combination has not and will not result in adverse changes to our ability to address the needs of customers, or the loss of attention or business focus; ● coordinating and integrating independent research and development teams across technologies and product platforms to enhance product development while reducing costs; ● combining product offerings; ● consolidating and integrating corporate, information technology, finance, and administrative infrastructures; ● coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position the capabilities of the combined company and the direction of product development; and ● minimizing the diversion of management attention from important business objectives. The fact that we are integrating On2 and On2 Finland during a period of economic decline, market volatility, and credit market constriction may make these challenges even more difficult to manage. If we do not successfully manage these issues and the other challenges inherent in integrating businesses of the size and complexity of On2 and On2 Finland, then we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the business combination and our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. For example, goodwill and other intangible assets could be determined to be further impaired which could adversely impact our financial results. The successful integration of the combined company businesses is likely to require significant management attention both before and after the completion of the business combination, and may divert the attention of management from our business and operational issues. Uncertainties associated with the business combination may cause a loss of employees and may otherwise materially adversely affect our business and operations. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to retain our key employees. In some of the fields in which we operate, there is only a limited number of people in the job market who possess the requisite skills. We have experienced difficulty in hiring and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified engineers in parts of our business. Current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their post-business combination roles with the combined company. This may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing, technical and other personnel. In addition, key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company following the share exchange. The loss of services of any key personnel or the inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills could restrict our ability to develop new products or enhance existing products in a timely manner, to sell products to customers or to effectively manage our business. We will face uncertainties related to the effectiveness of internal controls as a result of the business combination with On2 Finland. Public companies in the United States are required to review their internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will achieve its stated goal under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. 23 There can be no assurance that the integration of On2 Finland, and its internal control systems and procedures, will not result in or lead to a future material weakness in our internal controls, or that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting would require management and our independent public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on its business and stock price. In May 2008, our management identified three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and, as a result, has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective as of December 31, 2007. Although we believe that we have remediated these material weaknesses, if that assessment proves to be incorrect, or if additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting are identified or develop, we may be unable to comply with our periodic reporting requirements, accurately report our financial results, detect fraud or comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Management, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, management used the framework established in a report entitled Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). Based upon that assessment, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective. As described in “Part II — Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” of this report, in May 2008, we identified three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as a result of which our CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective as of December 31, 2007, due to the conditions that led to the identification of the material weaknesses. These material weaknesses were identified by management during its assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in connection with the preparation of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. As a result of these material weaknesses, our CEO and CFO also concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective as of December 31, 2007, due to the conditions that led to the identification of the material weaknesses. We have taken certain steps to remediate the identified material weaknesses. However, these steps may prove ineffective or we or our independent auditors may identify further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in the future. If a material weakness exists as of a future period year-end (including a material weakness identified prior to year-end for which there is an insufficient period of time to evaluate and confirm the effectiveness of the corrections or related new procedures), our management will be unable to report favorably as of such future period year-end to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period, or if we continue to experience material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. Remedying any additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we or our independent auditors may identify in the future may require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. If we fail to timely remedy any additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies that we or our auditors may identify, we may be unable to comply with our periodic reporting requirements, accurately report our financial results, detect fraud or comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 all of which could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy, timeliness and completeness of our financial reports. In addition, we can give no assurance that our independent auditors will agree with our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at that time. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. 24 Our failure to timely file certain periodic reports with the SEC poses significant risks to our business, each of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We did not timely file with the SEC this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 or our Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2008. Consequently, we were not compliant with the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. Should we again be unable to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC, we may not be eligible to use a registration statement to offer and sell freely tradable securities, which prevents us from accessing the public capital markets. We could also be subject to delisting of our common stock by the NYSE Alternext US, Inc. (formerly known as the American Stock Exchange) or enforcement action by the SEC or shareholder lawsuits. Any of these events could continue to materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may face additional risks and costs as a result of the restatement of our financial statements and the delayed filing of our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. As a result of the restatement of our financial data for the quarters ended June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007 and the delayed filing of our annual report on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2007 and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 30, 2008, we incurred substantial unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees in connection with or related to the restatement. It is possible that we will become involved in proceedings in the future in relation to these restatements. In connection with such potential proceedings, any incurred expenses not covered by available insurance or any adverse resolution could have a material adverse effect on us. Any such proceedings could be time consuming and distract our management from the conduct of our business. Further, the measures we have implemented to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting continue to require and will likely require in the future greater management time, company resource and outside professional resources to implement and monitor. Our success depends upon the continuing service and capabilities of our management team. The failure to retain existing management could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success will be dependent on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. Effective June 11, 2008, Bill Joll resigned as our CEO and as a member of our Board of Directors. On June 10, 2008, the Board of Directors appointed Matthew Frost, our EVP, Legal and Business Affairs, to serve as Interim Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer upon the resignation of Mr. Joll. The Board of Directors is currently conducting a search for a permanent CEO. Leadership transitions can be inherently difficult to manage and may cause disruption to our business or further turnover in our workforce or management team. The loss of services of one or more other members of senior management, or the inability to attract a qualified permanent CEO, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. We are not protected by any key-man or similar life insurance in respect of any of our executive officers. If we are unable to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our ability to execute our growth plan and be successful depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. As we continue to grow, we will need to hire additional personnel in all operational areas. We may be unable to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. If we do not succeed in attracting new personnel or retaining and motivating our current personnel, customers could experience delays in service, which could, in turn, adversely affect our operating results and revenue. Additionally, retention of highly skilled employees may require additional personnel costs or the issuance of certain equity compensation packages. These factors would reduce profitability and the price of our common stock. 25 Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the cyclical nature of and volatility in the semiconductor industry. We operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories, and accelerated erosion of prices. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our revenue and in our results of operations. Any downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of the industry or wired and wireless communications markets to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our operating results may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause large fluctuations in our stock price. Additionally, the current worldwide downturn makes it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and has caused U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products and services, which could delay and lengthen sales cycles. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic recovery, worldwide, or in the wired and wireless communications markets. If the economy or the wired and wireless communications markets in which we operate continue to decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Our hardware designs involve extended product development efforts and require that we make judgments regarding future customer demand and industry trends. A prolonged downturn in the semiconductor industry may cause our customers to make decisions regarding the architecture and fabrication of their chips that may undercut some of the advantages of our hardware designs. Because our key customers include many of the world’s largest semiconductor designers and manufacturers that use the latest chip technology and fabrication plants, we may make certain design decisions in anticipation that the majority of our customers will use such advanced technology. A continued decline in the semiconductor industry may discourage customers from making investments in new technologies, thus potentially impacting the performance they can achieve with our designs or making our designs unacceptable for their semiconductor products. The current depressed general economic and market conditions could cause decreases in the demand for our products, which could negatively affect our revenue and operating results. Downturns in general economic and market conditions such as those being experienced at present may result in customers postponing or canceling hardware or software purchasing decisions. If demand for our products decreases, our revenues may decrease and our operating results would be negatively impacted. As our international business expands, we are increasingly exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with our international operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales of products shipped to locations outside of the United States. In addition, On2 Finland, our wholly-owned subsidiary, manufactures a significant portion of its products outside of the United States and will be dependent on non-U.S. suppliers for many parts and services. We may also pursue growth opportunities in sales, design and manufacturing outside of the United States. Operations outside of the United States are subject to a number of risks and potential costs that could adversely affect revenue and results of operations, including: ● political, social and economic instability; ● fluctuations in currency exchange rates; ● exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; 26 ● natural disasters and public health emergencies; ● nationalization of business and blocking of cash flows; ● trade and travel restrictions; ● imposition of governmental controls and restrictions; ● burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; ● import and export license requirements and restrictions; ● unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; ● foreign technical standards; ● difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; ● international trade disputes; ● difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition; ● potentially adverse tax consequences; ● changes in taxation and tariffs; and ● fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. As an increasing proportion of our business may be denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our primary currency exposures are to the euro. These exposures may change over time as we change the geographic mix of our global business and as our business practices evolve. For instance, if we increase our presence in emerging markets, we may see an increase in our exposure to emerging market currencies, such as the Indian rupee. These currencies may be affected by internal factors and external developments in other countries. Also, our ability to enter into normal course derivative or hedging transactions in the future may be impacted by our current credit condition. Significant foreign exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have a history of losses and negative cash flow from operations and anticipate continued losses. We have not achieved profitability, and it is a possibility that we will continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future as we fund operating and capital expenditures in implementing our business plan. Our business model assumes that consumers will be attracted to and use broadband-specific video compression technology to access content available on customer Web sites or over proprietary networks that will, in turn, allow us to provide our technology solutions to customers. Our business model is not yet proven, and we cannot assure you that we will ever achieve or sustain profitability or that our operating losses will not increase in the future. Our business strategy may be unsuccessful, and we may not be able to adequately address all or any of these risks. Even if we are able to achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability. In either case, our operating results and liquidity would be harmed. 27 We may need to obtain additional cash to operate our business and to execute our business plan, and we may not achieve profitability. Since our inception, we have incurred significant losses and negative cash flow from operations, and as of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $183 million. On December 31, 2008 we had cash and investment reserves of approximately $4.3 million. During 2008, the company implemented a restructuring program, including a reduction of its workforce, a reduction in overhead costs, and the identification of one time charges for professional fees. Additionally, on January 28, 2009 the company notified its employees at On2 Finland that it intends to further reduce its personnel costs there through furloughs, terminations and/or moving some full-time employees to part-time. In accordance with Finnish law and the collective bargaining agreement covering most On2 Finland employees, the details of this plan to further reduce personnel costs in Finland are subject to final negotiations with the On2 Finland employee representative. Management estimates that the 2009 savings related to these cost-cutting measures and one time charges approximate $11.9 million. Although sales levels were weakened in the fourth quarter of 2008, we are continuing to focus our efforts on marketing our compression and video technology to strengthen the demand for our product and services. Additionally, On2 Finland may borrow funds up to a maximum of €450,000 ($634,000) under a line of credit as of December 31, 2008. To date, On2 Finland has not borrowed under the line. Given our cash and short-term investments of $4,289,000 at December 31, 2008, and the Company’s forecasted cash requirements, the Company’s management anticipates that the Company’s existing capital resources will be sufficient to satisfy our cash flow requirements for the next 12 months. We have based our forecasts on assumptions we have made relating to, among other things, the market for our products and services, economic conditions and the availability of credit to us and our customers. If these assumptions are incorrect, or if our sales are less than forecasted and/or expenses higher than expected, we may not have sufficient resources to fund our operations for this entire period. In that event, the Company may need to seek other sources of funds by issuing equity or incurring debt, or may need to implement further reductions of operating expenses, or some combination of these measures, in order for the Company to generate positive cash flows to sustain the operations of the Company. However, because of the recent tightening in global credit markets, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all. Our cost-cutting initiatives may be insufficient to ensure our continuing viability and may have a detrimental effect on our operations. During 2008, the company implemented a restructuring program, including a reduction of its workforce, a reduction in overhead costs and the identification of one time charges for professional fees. Additionally, in January 2009 the company notified its employees at On2 Finland that it intends to further reduce its personnel costs there through furloughs, terminations and/or moving some full-time employees to part-time. In accordance with Finnish law and the collective bargaining agreement covering most On2 Finland employees, the details of this plan to further reduce personnel costs in Finland are subject to final negotiations with the On2 Finland employee representative. Management estimates that the 2009 savings related to these cost-cutting measures and one time charges approximate $11.9 million. While we are confident that these measures will help improve the company’s cash flow, they may be insufficient to achieve the results that we expect, particularly in light of the current global economic conditions, and we may need to make even further reductions in costs. In addition, while we have attempted to identify cost reductions that have the least possible impact on our operations, we can’t offer any assurances that these reductions will not have a negative impact on our results of operations. If we cannot generate sufficient positive cash flows from our operations, our operating results and our stock price may be negatively impacted. Prior to our acquisition of On2 Finland, On2 Finland did not generate sufficient revenues to offset its operating costs and On2 did not generate sufficient revenues to offset its operating costs during the period ended December 31, 2008. Moreover, as we continue to expand our product and service offerings to maintain our competitive advantage, we may be required to incur additional costs to hire and retain additional personnel, license complementary third party technology for use in our proprietary software or expand both our international and domestic presence to enter new markets. These costs may significantly increase our current level of monthly operating expenses. Failure to generate sufficient capital through both our revenue streams and financings may require us to execute additional corporate restructurings, scale back our product or service offerings or limit the markets into which we enter. Any of these items, or a combination thereof, could have a harmful effect on our operating results and our stock price. 28 A lack of investment capital will make it more difficult for us to obtain from third parties funds we may need to support our operations. We are an emerging company and have experienced significant operating losses and negative cash flows to date. We have funded our operations with a series of equity financing transactions, credit facilities and our operating revenue as we have moved towards achieving profitability. Given the economic downturn, which became more acute during the latter part of 2008, investor appetite for equity investments has been reduced, and investors who are willing to invest in emerging companies may demand terms offering greater returns than they had previously found acceptable. At the same time, credit markets have become more stringent, with fewer lenders making fewer loans, with more restrictive terms. Therefore, should we need further third party financing, it may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Should this occur, our financial condition and results of operation will likely be materially adversely affected. Our stock price may fluctuate, which could result in losses on your investment in our stock. Fluctuations in the market price of our common stock may adversely affect our access to capital and financing and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Historically, our common stock price has fluctuated widely, with a 52-week range as of February 16, 2009 of $0.18 to $1.16. We expect fluctuations to continue in the future for a number of reasons, including: ● quarterly variations in our operating results; ● competitive announcements; ● the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; ● news relating to trends in our markets; and ● changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or failure to meet analyst estimates. In addition, the stock market generally has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of companies in our industry have been highly volatile. Due to the volatility of the stock market generally, the price of our common stock could fluctuate for reasons beyond our control. Strategic acquisitions could have a dilutive effect on your investment. Failure to make accretive acquisitions and successfully integrate them could adversely affect our future financial results. As part of our growth strategy, we may seek to acquire or invest in complementary businesses or technologies. Our goal is to make such acquisitions, integrate these acquired assets into our operations and expand the market for our products and services and possibly offer additional products or services. The process of integrating these acquired assets into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. We cannot be certain that the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions will be realized. Acquisitions also involve other risks, including entering geographic markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and the potential loss of key employees. In addition, future acquisitions by us could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which can materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain the capital necessary to consummate acquisitions or alliances on satisfactory terms, if at all. Further, any businesses that we acquire will likely have their own capital needs, which may be significant, which we could be called upon to satisfy independent of the acquisition price. 29 Much of our technology relies on owned or licensed intellectual property, and if such rights are not protected from the use of others, including potential competitors, our business prospects may be harmed. The failure to protect our intellectual property could seriously harm our businesses and prospects because we believe that our technology is unique and that its proprietary nature is critical to our success. If our prospects are harmed, the price of our common stock may decline because we may be less attractive to investors. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property through trademarks, copyrights, patents, trade secret laws, access to information and confidentiality agreements may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Even with all of these precautions, it could be possible for someone else to either copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without our authorization or to develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available, and policing unauthorized use of our proprietary information is difficult and expensive. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. In the future, we may need to initiate and maintain legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, which might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We currently hold nine U.S. patents and have nine additional U.S. patent applications and six international patent applications pending. On2 Finland has five U.S. patent applications pending, eight Finnish patents, one Finnish and six foreign (non-Finnish) patent applications pending. However, we cannot assure you that any additional patents will be issued. Even if a new patent is issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection. We may not have foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and patent applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Some or all of our patents have in the past been licensed and likely will in the future be licensed to certain of our competitors through cross-license agreements. Moreover, because we have participated in developing various industry standards, we may be required to license some of our patents to others, including competitors, who develop products based on those standards. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization. Also, current or former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Additionally, current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to penetrate our computer systems and networks to misappropriate our proprietary information and technology or interrupt our business. Because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate these techniques. As a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated, particularly in countries where laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We cannot assure you that our efforts to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will succeed. We have in the past been engaged in litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, including our customers. Such litigation (and the settlement thereof) can be very expensive and time consuming. Additionally, any litigation can divert the attention of management and other key employees from the operation of the business, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. 30 We may be unable to attain required third party licenses. We occasionally license from third parties technologies that are to be incorporated into some of our products and services. As we continue to introduce new services that incorporate new technologies, we may be required to license additional technology from others. We cannot be sure that these third-party technology licenses will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our use of open source software exposes us to certain risks. Certain of our software (as well as that of our customers) may be derived from so-called “open source” software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Such open source software is often made available to us under licenses, such as the GNU General Public License, or GPL, which impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license customarily used to protect our intellectual property. In addition, there is little or no legal precedent for interpreting the terms of certain of these open source licenses, including the determination of which works are subject to the terms of such licenses. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event that the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work. With respect to our proprietary software, we generally license such software under terms that prohibit combining it with open source software as described above. Despite these restrictions, parties may combine our proprietary software with open source software without our authorization, in which case we might nonetheless be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. Intellectual property risks and third party claims of infringement, misappropriation of proprietary rights or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties, and seriously harm our operating results. In addition, the defense of such claims could result in significant costs and divert the attention of our management or other key employees. Companies in and related to the semiconductor, wireless and broadband industries often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. There are often intellectual property risks associated with developing and producing new products and entering new markets, and we may not be able to obtain, at reasonable cost and upon commercially reasonable terms, licenses to intellectual property of others that is alleged to read on such new or existing products. From time to time, we may receive notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties’ proprietary rights. In addition, we or our customers may be sued by other parties that claim that our products have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets, or which may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents. An adverse determination in any of these types of disputes could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products, limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for us, increase our costs of revenue and expose us to significant liability. Any of these claims may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in a patent or trade secret action, a court could issue a preliminary or permanent injunction that would require us to withdraw or recall certain products from the market, redesign certain products offered for sale or under development, or restrict employees from performing work in their areas of expertise. We may also be liable for damages for past infringement and royalties for future use of the technology, and we may be liable for treble damages if infringement is found to have been willful. In addition, governmental agencies may commence investigations or criminal proceedings against our employees, former employees and/or the company relating to claims of misappropriation or misuse of another party’s proprietary rights. 31 We may also have to indemnify some customers and strategic partners under our agreements with such parties if a third party alleges or if a court finds that our products or activities have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another party’s proprietary rights. We have received requests from certain customers and strategic partners to include increasingly broad indemnification provisions in our agreements with them. These indemnification provisions may, in some circumstances, extend our liability beyond the products we provide to include liability for combinations of components or system level designs and for consequential damages and/or lost profits. Even if claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management and other key employees to defend. Additionally, we may seek to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights and may grant a license to certain of our intellectual property rights to a third party in connection with a cross-license agreement or a settlement of claims or actions asserted against us. However, we may not be able to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our products may contain technology provided to us by other parties such as contractors, suppliers or customers. We may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. Our contractors, suppliers and licensors may not be required to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. In addition, we may have little or no ability to correct errors in the technology provided by such contractors, suppliers and licensors, or to continue to develop new generations of such technology. Accordingly, we may be dependent on their ability and willingness to do so. In the event of a problem with such technology, or in the event that our rights to use such technology become impaired, we may be unable to ship our products containing such technology, and may be unable to replace the technology with a suitable alternative within the time frame needed by our customers. With the acquisition of On2 Finland, we face intense competition in the semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets, which could reduce our market share in existing markets and affect our entry into new markets. The semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets are intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue to increase as industry standards become well known and as other competitors enter our target markets. We currently compete with a number of major domestic and international suppliers of integrated circuits and related applications in our target markets. In all of our target markets we also may face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies, and customers who choose to develop their own solutions. We expect to encounter further consolidation in the markets in which we compete. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Existing or new competitors may also develop technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. Increased competition has resulted in and is likely to continue to result in declining average selling prices, reduced gross margins and loss of market share in certain markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against current or new competitors. If we do not compete successfully, we may lose market share in our existing markets and our revenues may fail to increase or may decline. If we fail to keep pace with technological advances in our industry or if we pursue technologies that do not become commercially accepted, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to use leading technologies effectively, to develop our technological expertise, to enhance our existing services and to develop new services that meet changing customer needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. We are unable to predict which technological developments will challenge our competitive position or the amount of expenditures that will be required to respond to a rapidly changing technological environment. Our failure to respond in a timely and effective manner to new and evolving technologies could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. 32 To remain competitive, we must keep pace with rapid technological change and evolving industry standards in the semiconductor industry and wired and wireless communications markets. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards and our customers’ changing demands. We sell products in markets that are influenced by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. Our past sales and profitability have resulted, to a large extent, from our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products incorporating the new standards and technologies. Our ability to adapt to these changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. If new industry standards emerge, our products or our customers’ products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. In addition, our target markets continue to undergo rapid growth and consolidation. A significant slowdown in any of these wired and wireless communications markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards make it difficult to formulate a long-term growth strategy because the semiconductor industry and wired and wireless communications markets may not continue to develop to the extent or in the time periods that we anticipate. We have invested substantial resources in emerging technologies that did not achieve the market acceptance that we had expected. If new markets do not develop as we anticipate, or if our products do not gain widespread acceptance in these markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses and in undetected defects or bugs, which could damage our reputation with current or prospective customers, result in significant costs and claims, and adversely affect the market acceptance of new products. Highly complex products such as the products that we offer frequently contain defects and bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. Our products have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, these defects and bugs. If any of our products contains defects or bugs, or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales or shipment of our products to our customers. To alleviate these problems, we may have to invest significant capital and other resources. Although our products are tested by us, our subcontractors, suppliers and customers, it is possible that our new products will contain defects or bugs. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product recall, repair or field replacement costs. These problems may divert our technical and other resources from other development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including possible claims for consequential damages and/or lost profits. In addition, system and handset providers that purchase components may require that we assume liability for defects associated with products produced by their manufacturing subcontractors and require that we provide a warranty for defects or other problems which may arise at the system level. Moreover, we would likely lose, or experience a delay in, market acceptance of the affected product or products, and we could lose credibility with our current and prospective customers. Regulatory changes in the Internet industry involve uncertainties, and the resolution of these uncertainties could adversely affect our business by raising our costs or reducing potential revenues. Although we are not currently subject to direct regulation by any governmental agency other than rules and regulations that apply to businesses generally and any export and import controls which may apply to our products, laws and regulations specifically pertaining to the Internet and digital video distribution through other means are new and developing. These laws, when enacted may require us to comply with new procedures or limit the scope of our technology or services, which could raise our expenses or reduce our revenues. The developing laws and regulations govern matters such as online content, intellectual property, user privacy, e-commerce, information security and taxation. Moreover, we may be liable to third parties for any content that we encode, distribute or make available on our website if that content violates a third party’s intellectual property rights or violates any applicable laws, such as obscenity laws or defamation laws. In addition, the applicability of existing laws to the Internet is uncertain and evolving. 33 Consolidation of customers of our embedded devices and RTL related business may lead to a reduction of the number of our deals and reduction of revenue in these businesses. We have recently seen consolidation of customers of our embedded devices and RTL related business. This may lead to a reduction in the number of deals and transactions we enter into as there may be fewer customers. In addition, one consolidated customer may use our products on more devices than it would have pre-consolidation, but it will not pay a proportionate increase in price for such increased usage. Changes in government regulation of the media and wireless communications industries may adversely affect our business. It is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted in the United States and elsewhere that could restrict the media and wireless communications industries, including laws and regulations regarding customer privacy, taxation, content suitability, copyright, distribution and antitrust. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours conducting business through wireless carriers. We anticipate that regulation of our industry will increase and that we will be required to devote legal and other resources to address this regulation. Effects of anti-takeover provisions could inhibit potential investors or delay or prevent a change of control that may favor you. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could, together or separately: ● Discourage potential acquisition proposals; ● Delay or prevent a change in control; and ● Limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In particular, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock (less any outstanding shares of preferred stock) with rights and privileges that might be senior to our common stock, without the consent of the holders of the common stock. We have never paid common stock dividends and do not anticipate paying common stock dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain earnings, if any, to support our growth strategy. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Economic conditions may make it more difficult for us to achieve our sales and revenue projections. The economy in the US and internationally deteriorated significantly during 2008. We may encounter difficulties in achieving sales if demand for our products and services decreases as a result of the poor economy. For example, our customers may reduce or defer purchases of our goods and services due to economic pressures they encounter, and some of our customers’ businesses may fail. Customers may also elect to develop products and services internally rather than purchasing them from us. We may also be forced to reduce the amounts we charge for our goods and services as competition becomes more intense in a tight market. Pressure on our customers may also result in their delaying payments due to us as they attempt to manage their cash flows or cause them to default on payments that they owe us. Although we have taken economic factors into consideration when making our internal sales and revenue projections, if economic conditions and the effect on our sales and collections are worse than we have anticipated, we may be unable to meet our sales and revenue expectations. In this case, we may suffer a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. 34 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 