Item 1A. Risk Factors. Choice Hotels International, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to various risks, which could have a negative effect on the Company and its financial condition. These risks could cause actual operating results to differ from those expressed in certain “forward looking statements” contained in this Form 10-K as well as in other Company communications. Before you invest in our securities you should carefully consider these risk factors together with all other information included in our publicly filed documents. We are subject to the operating risks common in the lodging and franchising industries. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from fees based on room revenues at hotels franchised under our brands. As such, our business is subject, directly or through our franchisees, to the following risks common in the lodging and franchising industry, among others: • changes in the number of hotels operating under franchised brands; • changes in the relative mix of franchised hotels in the various lodging industry price categories; • changes in occupancy and room rates achieved by hotels; • desirability of hotel geographic location; • travelers’ fears of exposure to contagious diseases or insect infestations in hotel rooms; • changes in general and local economic and market conditions, which can adversely affect the level of business and leisure travel, and therefore the demand for lodging and related services; • level of consumer unemployment; • increases in operating costs that may not be able to be totally offset by increases in room rates; • periods of deflation, defined as a persistent decline in the general price level of goods and services, may require franchisees to lower their room rates which would result in lower revenues to the Company. In addition, there is no guarantee that the Company could reduce its costs at the same pace as revenue declines leading to a reduction in operating profits; • over-building in one or more sectors of the hotel industry and/or in one or more geographic regions, could lead to excess supply compared to demand, and to decreases in hotel occupancy and/or room rates; • the availability and cost of capital to allow hotel owners and developers to fund investments; • changes in travel patterns; • changes in governmental regulations that influence or determine wages, prices or increase operating, maintenance or construction costs of our franchisees; • travel restrictions (whether security-related or otherwise) imposed by governmental authorities that have the effect of discouraging or limiting travel to and from certain jurisdictions; 25 Table of Contents • the costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including, among others, franchising, lending, privacy, marketing and sales, licensing, labor, climate change, employment and regulations applicable under the Office of Foreign Asset Control and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • other unpredictable external factors, such as acts of God, war, terrorist attacks, pandemics, epidemics, airline strikes, transportation and fuel price increases, natural disasters, and severe weather may reduce business and leisure travel or reduce the number of hotels open and operating within our system; • increases in the cost of human capital, energy, healthcare, insurance and other operating expenses resulting in lower operating margins; • the financial condition of franchisees and travel related companies; • franchisors’ ability to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential franchisees; and • changes in exchange rates or sustained recessionary periods in the U.S. (affecting domestic travel) and internationally could also unfavorably impact future results. Acquisition and development of new brands and markets. We will consider acquisitions of new brands that complement our current portfolio of brands as well as expansion of our brands in international markets. In many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties who may have substantially greater financial resources or different or lower acceptable financial metrics than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify acquisition candidates, acceptable new markets or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If transactions are consummated or new markets entered, there can be no assurance that any anticipated benefits will actually be realized. Similarly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing for acquisitions or investments, or that the ability to obtain such financing will not be restricted by the terms of our debt agreements We have recently developed and launched two additional hotel brands, Cambria Suites and Ascend Collection, and may develop and launch additional brands in the future. In addition, we plan to expand the distribution of existing brands in certain international markets. There can be no assurance regarding the level of acceptance of these brands in the development and consumer marketplaces, that costs incurred to develop the brands or expand in international markets (including advances for system services we provide), will be recovered or that the anticipated benefits from these new brands or markets will be realized. We are subject to risks relating to acts of God, terrorist activity, epidemics and war. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by acts of God, such as natural disasters and/or pandemics, epidemics, terrorist activities and acts of war affecting locations where we have a high concentration of franchisees and areas of the world from which our franchisees draw a large number of guests. Some types of losses, such as from terrorism and acts of war may be either uninsurable or too expensive to justify insuring against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, our results from operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We may not grow our franchise system or we may lose business by failing to compete effectively. Our operational and growth prospects depend on the strength and desirability of our brands. We believe that hotel operators choose lodging franchisors based primarily on the value and quality of each franchisor’s brand and services, the extent to which affiliation with that franchisor may increase the hotel operator’s reservations and profits, and the franchise fees charged. Demographic, economic or other changes in markets may adversely affect the desirability of our brands and, correspondingly, the number of hotels franchised under the Choice brands. 26 Table of Contents We compete with other lodging companies for franchisees. As a result, the terms of new franchise agreements may not be as favorable as our current franchise agreements. This competition may reduce or change fee structures, or make greater use of financial incentives such as loans and guarantees to acquire franchisees. This may potentially cause us to respond by charging lower fees or increasing our use of financial incentives, which may impact our margins. New competition may emerge using different business models with a lesser reliance on franchise fees. In addition, an excess supply of hotel rooms or unfavorable borrowing conditions may discourage potential franchisees from expanding or constructing new hotels, thereby limiting a source of growth of the franchise fees received by us. In addition, each of our hotel brands competes with major hotel chains in national and international markets and with independent companies in regional markets. Our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing our products and services from those offered by our competitors. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas, this could adversely affect our market share and our results of operations. We may have disputes with the owners of the hotels or their representative franchisee associations that we franchise. Our responsibilities under our franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and may give rise to disagreements in some instances. Such disagreements may be more likely when hotel returns are depressed as a result of economic conditions. We seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners; however, failure to resolve such disagreements could result in litigation with outcomes that may be adverse to our economic interests. We may not achieve our objectives for growth in the number of franchised hotels. The number of properties and rooms franchised under our brands significantly affects our results. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving our objectives with respect to growing the number of franchised hotels in our system or that we will be able to attract qualified franchisees. The growth in the number of franchised hotels is subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond the control of our franchisees or us. Among other risks, the following factors affect our ability to achieve growth in the number of franchised hotels: • the ability of our franchisees to open and operate additional hotels profitably. Factors affecting the opening of new hotels, or the conversion of existing hotels to a Choice brand, include, among others: • the availability of hotel management, staff and other personnel; • the cost and availability of suitable hotel locations; • the availability and cost of capital to allow hotel owners and developers to fund investments; • cost effective and timely construction of hotels (which construction can be delayed due to, among other reasons, availability of financing, labor and materials availability, labor disputes, local zoning and licensing matters, and weather conditions); and • securing required governmental permits. • our ability to continue to enhance our reservation, operational and service delivery systems to support additional franchisees in a timely, cost-effective manner; • our formal impact policy, which offers franchisees protection from the opening of a same-brand property within a specified distance, may adversely impact our growth potential; • the effectiveness and efficiency of our development organization; • our failure to introduce new brands that gain market acceptance, may adversely impact our unit growth potential; 27 Table of Contents • our dependence on our independent franchisees’ skills and access to financial resources necessary to open the desired number of hotels; • our ability to attract and retain qualified domestic and international franchisees; and • we are currently planning to expand our international operations in many of the markets where we currently operate and in selected new markets. This may require considerable management time as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not experience the operating margins we expect, our results of operations may be negatively impacted and our stock price may decline. Contract terms for new hotel franchises may be less favorable. The terms of the franchise agreements for new or conversion hotels are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors at the time these agreements are entered into. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that contracts for new hotel franchises entered into or renewed in the future will be on terms that are as favorable as those under our existing agreements. Instability in the credit markets may impact the ability of our franchisees to expand or construct new locations. Our growth strategy relies on the ability of our franchisees to expand or open new franchises and to operate those franchises on a profitable basis. Delays or failures in opening new locations could materially and adversely affect our planned growth. Recently, the credit markets have experienced instability, resulting in declining real estate values, credit and liquidity concerns and increased loan default rates. Many lenders have subsequently reduced their willingness to make new loans and have tightened their credit requirements. Many of our franchisees depend on the availability of financing to refinance existing indebtedness, to expand and or renovate existing locations or construct and open new hotels. If our franchisees experience difficulty in obtaining adequate financing for these purposes, our growth strategy and franchise revenues may be adversely affected. Development activities that involve our co-investment or financing and guaranty support for third parties may result in exposure to losses. As a result of our program to make financial support available to developers in the form of loans, credit support, such as guarantees, and equity investments, we are subject to investment and credit risks that we would not otherwise be exposed to as a franchisor. In particular, when we make loans to franchisees, agree to provide loan guarantees for the benefit of franchisees, or make equity investments in franchisees, we are subject to all generally applicable credit and investment risks, such as (1) construction delays, cost overruns, or acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; (2) the possibility that the parties with which we have entered into a co-investment, financing or guaranty relations could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours; and (3) that the conditions within capital markets may limit the ability of franchisees to raise additional debt or equity that may be required for completion of projects. In addition to general credit and capital market risks, we face specific risks stemming from our ability to assess the existing and future financial strength of the franchisee and its principals, the development/construction abilities of the franchisee, the expected performance of the hotel in light of the forecasted general, regional and market-specific economic climate, and the ability to negotiate for, value, and if necessary collect security for our loans or obligations. Although we actively seek to minimize such risks before providing financial support, if we do not accurately assess these risks, our assumptions used to make these estimates prove inaccurate, or situations in the credit market or hospitality industry change in a manner we did not anticipate, our loans and investments may become impaired and/or we may be required to make payment 28 Table of Contents under guarantees we have issued. In such instances, there is no assurance that we will be able to recover any or all of such impaired or paid amounts, in which case we will experience losses which could be material. Development activities that involve our investment in real estate to stimulate the development of new brands may result in exposure to losses The Company has recently begun a program to identify real estate for potential developers to acquire and be utilized for Cambria Suites development. The Company’s intent is to identify potential development sites so that developers may acquire the site and commence construction of a Cambria Suites. However, in certain circumstances, the Company has acquired the real estate prior to identifying a potential developer for the project. As a result, we are subject to the investment risk that we would not otherwise be exposed to as a franchisor. In particular, we face specific risks stemming from our (1) our ability to assess the fair market value of the real estate; (2) the location’s suitability for development as a Cambria Suites; (3) the availability of zoning or other local approvals needed for development; and (4) availability and pricing of capital. Although we actively seek to minimize these risks prior to acquiring real estate, there is no assurance that we will be able to recover the cost of our investment in which case we will experience losses which could be material. Under certain circumstances our franchisees may terminate our franchise contracts. We franchise hotels to third parties pursuant to franchise agreements. These agreements may be terminated, renegotiated or expire but typically have an initial term of either 10 or 20 years. These agreements also typically contain provisions permitting the franchisee to terminate their agreement after five, ten or fifteen years under certain circumstances and depending on the particular hotel brand that is licensed to the franchisee. While our franchise agreements provide for liquidated damages to be paid to us by franchisees whose agreements have been terminated as the result of a violation of the provisions of their agreement, these damage amounts are typically less than the fees we would have received if the terminated franchisee fulfilled its contractual obligations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to replace expired or terminated franchise agreements, or that the provisions of renegotiated or new agreements will be as favorable as the provisions that existed before such expiration, replacement or renegotiation. Deterioration in the general financial condition of our franchisees may adversely affect our results. Our operating results are impacted by the ability of our franchisees to generate revenues at properties they franchise from us. An extended period of occupancy or room rate declines may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of our franchisees. These negative operating conditions could result in the financial failure of our owners and result in a termination of the franchisee for non-payment of franchise fees or require the transfer of ownership of the franchise. In those instances where ownership is transferred, there can be no assurance that the new owners will choose to affiliate with our brands. The hotel industry is highly competitive. Competition for hotel guests is based primarily on the level of service, quality of accommodations, convenience of locations and room rates. Our franchisees compete for guests with other hotel properties in their geographic markets. Some of their competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than our franchisees, and they may construct new facilities or improve their existing facilities, reduce their prices or expand and improve their marketing programs in ways that adversely affect our franchisees operating results and financial condition. In addition, the ability of our franchisees to compete for guests directly impacts the desirability of our brands to current and prospective franchisees. These factors, among others, could adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of our franchisees and result in declines in the number of franchised properties and/or franchise fees and other revenues derived from our franchising business. In addition, at times, the Company provides financial support to our franchisees via notes and guarantees. Factors that may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of these franchisees may result in the Company incurring losses related to this financial support. 29 Table of Contents We may not be able to recover advances for system services that we provide to our franchisees. The Company is obligated to use the system fees it collects from the current franchisees comprising its various hotel brands to provide system services, such as marketing and reservations services, appropriate to fulfill its obligations under the Company’s franchise agreements. In discharging its obligation to provide sufficient and appropriate system services, the Company has the right to expend funds in an amount reasonably necessary to ensure the provision of such services, regardless of whether or not such amount is currently available to the Company for reimbursement. As a result, expenditures for system services by the Company in excess of available system fees are recorded as a receivable in the Company’s financial statements. Under the terms of its franchise agreements, the Company has the legally enforceable right to assess and collect from its current franchisees, fees sufficient to pay for the system services the Company has provided or procured for the benefit of its franchisees, including fees to reimburse the Company for past services rendered. The Company’s current franchisees are legally obligated to pay any assessment the Company imposes on them to obtain reimbursement of any systems services advances regardless of whether the franchisees continue to generate gross room revenue and whether or not they joined the system following the deficit’s occurrence. However, our ability to recover these receivables may be adversely impacted by certain factors, including, among others, declines in the ability of our franchisees to generate revenues at properties they franchise from us, lower than expected franchise system growth of certain brands and/or lower than expected international franchise system growth. An extended period of occupancy or room rate declines or a decline in the number of hotel rooms in our franchise system could result in the generation of insufficient funds to recover system services advances as well as meet the ongoing system service needs of our franchisees. Our franchisees may fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, preference for our brands and our reputation could suffer or our franchise agreements with those parties could terminate. Our franchised properties are governed by the terms of franchise agreements. Substantially all of these agreements require property owners to comply with standards that are essential to maintaining our brand integrity and reputation. We depend on our franchisees to comply with these requirements by maintaining and improving properties through investments, including investments in furniture, fixtures, amenities and personnel. Franchisees may be unable to access capital or unwilling to spend available capital when necessary, even if required by the terms of our franchise agreements. If our franchisees fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties we franchise, our brand preference and reputation could suffer. In addition, if franchisees breach the terms of our agreements with them, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate our revenues from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these relationships. These risks become more pronounced during economic downturns. Increasing use of alternative internet reservation channels may decrease loyalty to our brands and our existing distribution channels or otherwise adversely affect us. A significant percentage of hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries. If such bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from our franchisees or us. Moreover, some of these internet travel intermediaries are attempting to commoditize hotel rooms, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality at the expense of brand identification. These intermediaries hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservations systems rather than to our lodging brands and our existing distribution channels. If this happens, our business and profitability may be significantly harmed. We have established agreements with many key third party websites to limit transaction fees for hotels but we currently do not have agreements with several large internet travel intermediaries. There can be no assurance that current margins or levels of utilization associated with either our online or contact center distribution channels will not decrease in the face of such 30 Table of Contents competition. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renegotiate these agreements, upon their expiration, with terms as favorable as the provisions that existed before such expiration, replacement or renegotiation. We are dependent upon our ability to manage our growth. Our future success and our ability to manage future growth depend in large part upon the efforts and skills of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain key officers and other highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our senior management will be able to successfully execute and implement our growth and operating strategies. We and our franchisees are reliant upon technology. The lodging industry depends upon the use of sophisticated technology and systems including those utilized for reservations, property management, procurement, operation of our customer loyalty programs and our administrative systems. The operation of many of these systems is dependent upon third party data communication networks and software upgrades, maintenance and support. These technologies can be expected to require refinements and there is the risk that advanced new technologies will be introduced. There can be no assurance that as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required we will be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs for such technology. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the benefits that may have been anticipated from any new technology or system. Further, there can be no assurance that disruptions of the operation of these systems will not occur as a result of failures related to our internal or third party systems and support. Our international operations are subject to political and monetary risks. We have franchised properties open and operating in over 30 countries and territories outside of the United States. We also have investments in foreign hotel franchisors. International operations generally are subject to political and other risks that are not present in U.S. operations. In certain countries, these risks include the risk of war or civil unrest, expropriation and nationalization. In addition, the laws of some international jurisdictions do not adequately protect our intellectual property and restrict the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings. Various international jurisdictions also have laws limiting the right and ability of non-U.S. entities to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions have been met. In addition, revenues from international jurisdictions typically are earned in local currencies, which subjects us to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Currency devaluations and unfavorable changes in international monetary and tax policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financing plans, as could other changes in the international regulatory climate and international economic conditions. We intend to continue to expand internationally, which would make the risks related to our international operations more significant over time. We are subject to certain risks related to our indebtedness. As a result of our debt obligations, we are subject to the following risks, among others: • the risk that (to the extent we maintain floating rate indebtedness) interest rates increase; • our leverage may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes, if required; • the availability and cost of capital may limit our ability to refinance our existing revolving debt obligations; and • our existing debt agreements contain covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional money, sell assets or engage in mergers. If we do not comply with these covenants, or do not 31 Table of Contents repay our debt on time, we would be in default under our debt agreements. Unless any such default is waived by our lenders, the debt could become immediately payable and this would have a material adverse impact on us. Our ability to make payments of principal of and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: • seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; • reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; • reduce or delay planned operating expenditures; or • reduce or eliminate quarterly dividends. While we currently maintain an investment grade credit rating by both of the major rating agencies, there can be no assurance we will be able to maintain this rating. In the event of a downgrade in our credit rating, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs. Anti-takeover provisions may prevent a change in control. Our restated certificate of incorporation, the staggered terms of our board of directors and the Delaware General Corporation Law each contain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a party to acquire, and may discourage a party from attempting to acquire control of our Company without approval of our board of directors. These provisions together with the concentration of our share ownership could discourage tender offers or other bids for our common stock at a premium over market price. The concentration of share ownership may influence the outcome of certain matters. The concentration of share ownership by our directors and affiliates allows them to substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. As a result, acting together, they may be able to control or substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the elections of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as equity compensation plans. Government regulation could impact our business. The Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”), various states and certain foreign jurisdictions where we market franchises regulate the sale of franchises. The FTC requires franchisors to make extensive disclosure to prospective franchisees but does not require registration. A number of states in which our franchisees operate require registration or disclosure in connection with franchise offers and sales. In addition, several states in which our franchisees operate have “franchise relationship laws” or “business opportunity laws” that limit the ability of the franchisor to terminate franchise agreements or to withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of these agreements. While our business has not been materially affected by such regulation, there can be no assurance that this will continue or that future regulation or legislation will not have such an effect. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions and have structured our operations to reduce our effective tax rate. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse 32 Table of Contents outcome of any such audit or review could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. In addition, the economic downturn has reduced tax revenues for U.S. federal and state governments, and proposals to increase taxes from corporate entities are being considered at various levels of government. Among the options have been a range of proposals included in the tax and budget policies recommended to the U.S. Congress by the U.S. Department of the Treasury to modify the federal tax rules related to the imposition of U.S. federal corporate income taxes for companies operating in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. If such proposals are enacted into law, this could increase our effective tax rate. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could impact our business. There can be no assurance that the periodic evaluation of our internal controls required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will not result in the identification of significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls or that our auditors will be able to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to comply may have consequences on our business including, but not limited to, increased risks of financial statement misstatements, SEC sanctions and negative capital market reactions. We are subject to certain risks related to litigation filed by or against us. We cannot predict with certainty the cost of defense, the cost of prosecution or the ultimate outcome of litigation filed by or against us, including, remedies or damage awards. This litigation may include, but is not limited to, actions or negligence by franchisees outside of our control. We are not liable for the actions of our franchisees; however, there is no guarantee that we would be insulated from liability in all cases. Disruption or malfunction in our information systems could adversely affect our business. Information technology systems that we may rely upon are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters; • power losses, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic losses of data and similar events; and • computer viruses, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information and other breaches of security. We rely on various systems to perform functions critical to our ability to operate, including our central reservation systems. Accordingly, an extended interruption in the ability of any system to function could significantly curtail, directly and indirectly, our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue. The weakening of our trademarks and other intellectual property could impact our business. We believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property are fundamental to our brands and our franchising business. We generate, maintain, license and enforce a substantial portfolio of trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We enforce our intellectual property rights to protect the value of our trademarks, our development activities, to protect our good name, to promote our brand name recognition, to enhance our competitiveness and to otherwise support our business goals and objectives. We rely on trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion 33 Table of Contents of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against us and could significantly harm our results of operations. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. From time to time, we apply to have certain trademarks registered. There is no guarantee that such trademark registrations will be granted. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. Failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, damage of reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our employees and customers as such information is entered into, processed, summarized, and reported by the various information systems we use. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. Our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, both in the U.S. and in the international jurisdictions in which we operate. If the Company fails to maintain compliance with the various U.S. and international laws and regulations applicable to the protection of such data or with the Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) data security standards, the Company’s ability to process such data could be adversely impacted and expose the Company to fines, litigation or other expenses or sanctions. Changes in privacy law could adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. We rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email, marketing and postal mailings. Any future restrictions in laws such as Telemarketing Sales Rule, CANSPAM Act, and various U.S. state laws, or new federal laws regarding marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of telemarketing, email and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategies. If this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our revenues. We also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers and other companies with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company’s marketing materials. If access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to our products could be impaired. We depend on the skill, ability and decisions of third party operators. The Company utilizes third party operators to provide significant franchise services, such as providing general reservation call center services and inspecting its franchisees. The failure of any third-party operator to make decisions, perform their services, discharge their obligations, deal with regulatory agencies, and comply with laws, rules and regulations could result in material adverse consequences to our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 