ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in one business segment, corn refining, and our business is managed on a geographic regional basis. In each country where we conduct business, our business and assets are subject to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty. The following are factors that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws that are contained in this Form 10-K or in our other filings or statements may be subject to the risks described below as well as other risks and uncertainties. Please read the cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements in Item 7 below. We operate a multinational business subject to the economic, political and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries and with foreign currencies. We have operated in foreign countries and with foreign currencies for many years. Our US dollar denominated results are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuations. Our operations are subject to political, economic and other risks. Economic changes, terrorist activity and political unrest may result in business interruption or decreased demand for our products. Protectionist trade measures and import and export licensing requirements could also adversely affect our results of operations. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty. We primarily sell world commodities and, historically, local prices have adjusted relatively quickly to offset the effect of local currency devaluations. We may hedge transactions that are denominated in a currency other than the currency of the operating unit entering into the underlying transaction. We are subject to the risks normally attendant to such hedging activities. Raw material and energy price fluctuations, and supply interruptions and shortages could adversely affect our results of operations. Our finished products are made primarily from corn. Purchased corn accounts for between 40 percent and 65 percent of finished product costs. Energy costs represent approximately 16 percent of our finished product costs. We use energy primarily to create steam in our production process and in dryers to dry product. We consume coal, natural gas, electricity, wood and fuel oil to generate energy. The market prices for these commodities vary depending on supply and demand, world economies and other factors. We purchase these commodities based on our anticipated usage and future outlook for these costs. We cannot assure that we will be able to purchase these commodities at prices that we can adequately pass on to customers to sustain or increase profitability. In North America, we sell a large portion of our finished products at firm prices established in supply contracts typically lasting for periods of up to one year. In order to minimize the effect of volatility in the cost of corn related to these firm-priced supply contracts, we take hedging positions by entering into corn futures contracts. From time to time, we may also enter into anticipatory hedges. These derivative contracts typically mature within one year. At expiration, we settle the derivative contracts at a net amount equal to the difference between the then-current price of corn and the fixed contract price. These hedging instruments are subject to fluctuations in value; however, changes in the value of the underlying exposures we are hedging generally offset such fluctuations. While the corn futures contracts or hedging positions are intended to minimize the volatility of corn costs on operating profits, occasionally the hedging activity can result in losses, some of which may be material. Outside of North America, sales of finished product under long-term, firm-priced supply contracts are not material. We also 13 Table of Contents use derivative financial instruments to hedge portions of our natural gas costs, primarily in our North American operations. Our ability to generate an adequate return on investment is uncertain. Our ability to generate operating income and to increase profitability depends to a large extent upon our ability to price finished products at a level that will cover manufacturing and raw material costs and provide a profit margin. Our ability to maintain appropriate price levels is determined by a number of factors largely beyond our control, such as aggregate industry supply and market demand, which may vary from time to time, and the economic conditions of the geographic regions where we conduct our operations. Our inability to contain costs could adversely affect our future profitability and growth. Our future profitability and growth depends on our ability to contain operating costs and per-unit product costs and to maintain and/or implement effective cost control programs, while at the same time maintaining competitive pricing and superior quality products, customer service and support. Our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure depends on continued containment of manufacturing, delivery and administrative costs as well as the implementation of cost-effective purchasing programs for raw materials, energy and related manufacturing requirements. If we are unable to contain our operating costs and maintain the productivity and reliability of our production facilities, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected. We may not have access to the funds required for future growth and expansion. We may need additional funds for working capital to grow and expand our operations. We expect to fund our capital expenditures from operating cash flow to the extent we are able to do so. If our operating cash flow is insufficient to fund our capital expenditures, we may either reduce our capital expenditures or utilize our general credit facilities. We may also seek to generate additional liquidity through the sale of debt or equity securities in private or public markets or through the sale of non-productive assets. We cannot provide any assurance that our cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund anticipated capital expenditures or that we will be able to obtain additional funds from financial markets or from the sale of assets at terms favorable to us. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or raise sufficient additional funds to cover our capital expenditures, we may not be able to achieve our desired operating efficiencies and expansion plans, which may adversely impact our competitiveness and, therefore, our results of operations. Increased interest rates could increase our borrowing costs. From time to time we may issue securities to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures, working capital and for other general corporate purposes. An increase in interest rates in the general economy could result in an increase in our borrowing costs for these financings, as well as under any existing debt that bears interest at an unhedged floating rate. 14 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive environment and it may be difficult to preserve operating margins and maintain market share. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Almost all of our products compete with virtually identical or similar products manufactured by other companies in the corn refining industry. In the United States, there are other corn refiners, several of which are divisions of larger enterprises that have greater financial resources than we do. Some of these competitors, unlike us, have vertically integrated their corn refining and other operations. Many of our products also compete with products made from raw materials other than corn. Fluctuation in prices of these competing products may affect prices of, and profits derived from, our products. Competition in markets in which we compete is largely based on price, quality and product availability. Due to market volatility, we cannot assure that we can adequately pass potential increases in the cost of corn on to customers through product price increases or purchase quantities of corn at prices sufficient to sustain or increase our profitability. Our corn purchasing costs, which include the price of the corn plus delivery cost, account for 40 percent to 65 percent of our product costs. The price and availability of corn is influenced by economic and industry conditions, including supply and demand factors such as crop disease and severe weather conditions such as drought, floods or frost that are difficult to anticipate and which we cannot control. In addition, government programs supporting sugar prices indirectly impact the price of corn sweeteners, especially high fructose corn syrup. Volatility in the stock market fluctuations and in quarterly operating results and other factors could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price for our common stock may be significantly affected by factors such as our announcement of new products or services or such announcements by our competitors; technological innovation by us, our competitors or other vendors; quarterly variations in our operating results or the operating results of our competitors; general conditions in our or our customers’ markets; and changes in the earnings estimates by analysts or reported results that vary materially from such estimates. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies that have been unrelated to the operating performance of any individual company. Changes in consumer preferences and perceptions may lessen the demand for our products, which could reduce our sales and profitability and harm our business. Food products are often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions and demographic trends. For instance, changes in prevailing health or dietary preferences causing consumers to avoid food products containing sweetener products in favor of foods that are perceived as being more healthy, could reduce our sales and profitability, and such a reduction could be material. 15 Table of Contents The uncertainty of acceptance of products developed through biotechnology could affect our profitability. The commercial success of agricultural products developed through biotechnology, including genetically modified corn, depends in part on public acceptance of their development, cultivation, distribution and consumption. Public attitudes can be influenced by claims that genetically modified products are unsafe for consumption or that they pose unknown risks to the environment even if such claims are not based on scientific studies. These public attitudes can influence regulatory and legislative decisions about biotechnology even where they are approved. The sale of the Company’s products which may contain genetically modified corn could be delayed or impaired because of adverse public perception regarding the safety of the Company’s products and the potential effects of these products on animals, human health and the environment. Our profitability could be negatively impacted if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. Approximately 33 percent of US and 48 percent of non-US employees are members of unions. Strikes, lockouts or other work stoppages or slow downs involving our unionized employees could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not successfully identify and complete acquisitions or strategic alliances on favorable terms or achieve anticipated synergies relating to any acquisitions or alliances, and such acquisitions could result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and require significant management resources. We regularly review potential acquisitions of complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, as well as potential strategic alliances. We may be unable to find suitable acquisition candidates or appropriate partners with which to form partnerships or strategic alliances. Even if we identify appropriate acquisition or alliance candidates, we may be unable to complete such acquisitions or alliances on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired business, technology, service or product into our existing business and operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may require significant management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or strategic alliance, and such transactions may not generate anticipated financial results. Future acquisitions could also require us to issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or amortize expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could harm our business. No assurance can be given that we will continue to pay dividends. The payment of dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be subject to our financial results and the availability of surplus funds to pay dividends. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make it more difficult to acquire the Company. Certain provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (our “Charter”) and our Amended By-laws and of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”) may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of the Company not approved by our Board. These provisions include (i) a classified Board of Directors, (ii) a requirement of the unanimous consent of all stockholders for action to be taken without a meeting, (iii) a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the Chairman of the Board or the Board of Directors, (iv) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations, (v) limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our Amended By-Laws and certain provisions of our Charter, (vi) authorization for our Board to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock with such 16 Table of Contents terms as the Board of Directors may determine and (vii) authorization for our Board to consider the interests of creditors, customers, employees and other constituencies of the Company and its subsidiaries and the effect upon communities in which we and our subsidiaries do business, in evaluating proposed corporate transactions. With certain exceptions, Section 203 of the DGCL imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our common stock. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan. Our rights plan is designed to protect our stockholders in the event of an unsolicited offer and other takeover tactics, which, in the opinion of our Board, could impair our Boards’ ability to represent stockholder interests. The provisions of our rights plan may render an unsolicited takeover of the Company more difficult or less likely to occur or might prevent such a takeover. These provisions of our Charter and By-laws, the DGCL and our rights plan could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, although such proposals, if made, might be considered desirable by a majority of our stockholders. Such provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace the members of our Board. Moreover, these provisions could diminish the opportunities for a stockholder to participate in certain tender offers, including tender offers at prices above the then-current market value of our common stock, and may also inhibit increases in the market price of our common stock that could result from takeover attempts or speculation. Our reliance on certain industries for a significant portion of our sales could have a material adverse affect on our business. Approximately 19 percent of our 2006 sales were made to companies engaged in the processed foods industry and approximately 18 percent were made to companies in the soft drink industry. Additionally, sales to the brewing industry and to the animal feed market represented approximately 11 percent and 10 percent of our 2006 net sales, respectively. If our processed foods customers, soft drink customers, brewing industry customers or animal feed customers were to substantially decrease their purchases, our business might be materially adversely affected. However, we believe there is no concentration of risk with any single customer or supplier whose failure or non-performance would materially affect our financial results. An outbreak of a life threatening communicable disease could negatively impact our business. The outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) previously affected the economies of certain countries where we manufacture and sell products. If the economies of any countries where we sell or manufacture products are affected by a similar outbreak of SARS, the Avian Flu, or other life threatening communicable diseases, it could result in decreased sales and unfavorably impact our business. 17 Table of Contents Cross-border disputes between countries in which we operate could result in duties, taxes or other costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. Due to cross-border disputes, our operations could be adversely affected by actions taken by the governments of countries where we conduct business. In 2002, the Mexican government imposed a discriminatory tax on beverages sweetened with HFCS, which resulted in a substantial reduction of our sales of HFCS in Mexico. However, sales of HFCS in Mexico returned to historical levels by 2005 and the tax was repealed on January 1, 2007. If we were unable to maintain sales levels of high fructose corn syrup in Mexico, our results of operations from Mexico could be negatively affected and we could be required to recognize a charge for impairment. In December 2005 the Canadian government imposed preliminary antidumping and countervailing duties on US corn. These duties were terminated in April 2006, but the termination has been appealed. The recognition of impairment charges on goodwill or long-lived assets would adversely impact the future financial position and results of operations of the Company. We perform an annual impairment assessment for goodwill and, as necessary, for long-lived assets. If the results of such assessments were to show that the fair value of our property, plant and equipment or goodwill were less than the carrying values, we would be required to recognize a charge for impairment of goodwill and/or long-lived assets and the amount of the impairment charge could be material. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and material adjustments from tax audits. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the US, is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the US. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. Operating difficulties at our manufacturing plants could adversely affect our operating results. Corn refining is a capital intensive industry. We have 30 plants and have preventive maintenance and de-bottlenecking programs designed to maintain and improve grind capacity and facility reliability. If we encounter operating difficulties at a plant for an extended period of time or start up problems with any capital improvement projects, we may not be able to meet a portion of sales order commitments and could incur significantly higher operating expenses, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 