D. RISK FACTORS. We depend upon one customer who accounted for at least 10% of our sales in 2009. We cannot be certain that these sales will continue; if not, our revenue will likely decline. Although we sell to a large number of customers in a variety of markets, two of our customers each accounts for at least 10% of our 2008 sales. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, these customers accounted for approximately 11% and 11% of our 2008 sales and 10% and 4% of our 2009 sales. Each of these customers is a non-affiliated third party and is not a related party of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Although we have maintained good and longstanding relationships with these customers, we do not have any long-term contract with either of them and they order only on a “purchase order” basis. The loss of either of these customers or a significant reduction in their orders would have a materially adverse effect on our revenues. We face significant competition from larger competitors in our wholesale and retail operations. The making and distribution of jewelry is a highly competitive industry characterized by the diversity and sophistication of the product. We compete with major domestic and international companies with substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources and personnel than us. There can be no assurance that other jewelry makers will not similarly develop low-cost, high-volume production capability or an even better process, providing greater competition for us and materially affecting our business prospects. -5- Table of Contents There are numerous factors relating to the operations of our business that could adversely affect our success and results. As a maker and merchandiser of low-cost, high-quality gem-set jewelry, our existing and future operations are and will be influenced by several factors, including: • technological developments in the mass production of jewelry • our ability to meet the design and production requirements of our customers efficiently • the market acceptance of our and our customers’ jewelry • increases in expenses associated with continued sales growth • our ability to control costs • our management’s ability to evaluate the public’s taste and new orders to target satisfactory profit margins • our capacity to develop and manage the introduction of new designed products • our ability to compete Quality control is also essential to our operations since customers demand compliance with design and product specifications and consistency of production. We cannot assure that revenue growth will occur on a quarterly or annual basis. Our production facilities are located in China. Our results of operations and financial condition may, therefore, be influenced by the economic, political, legal and social conditions in China. Since 1978, the Chinese government has been reforming, and is expected to continue to reform, China’s economic and political systems. Such reforms have resulted in significant social progress. Other political, economic and social factors could also lead to further readjustment of the reform measures. This refinement and readjustment process may not always have a positive effect on our operations in China. At times, we may also be adversely affected by changes in policies of the Chinese government such as changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, the introduction of additional measures to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation and imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad. Changes to PRC tax laws may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. The National People’s Congress, the Chinese legislature, on March 16, 2007 passed a new enterprise income tax law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The new law applies a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate (“EIT”) to both foreign invested enterprises and domestic enterprises, except that enterprises that were approved to be established prior to March 16, 2007 may continue to enjoy the applicable preferential tax treatments until December 31, 2012. Eligible companies are required to transition to the new EIT rate over a five-year period starting January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is deemed to be considered as a “resident enterprise”, meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise -6- Table of Contents income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. Currently, no official interpretation or application of this new “resident enterprise” classification is available and, therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our British Virgin Islands holding company is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that non-PRC source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%, in comparison to no taxation in the British Virgin Islands. Second, under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would be subject to a 10% withholding income tax. Finally, if our British Virgin Islands holding company is deemed to be a PRC tax resident enterprise, a 10% withholding tax shall be imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived from our non-PRC shareholders transferring our shares. Our products are currently made at our production facility located in Shenzhen, China. However, our insurance may not adequately cover any losses due to fire, casualty or theft. We have obtained fire, casualty and theft insurance covering several of our stock in trade, goods and merchandise, furniture and equipment and production facility in China. The proceeds of such insurance may not be sufficient to cover material damage to, or the loss of, our production facility due to fire, severe weather, flood or other cause, and such damage or loss would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and prospects. Consistent with the customary practice among enterprises in China and due to the cost in relation to the benefit, we do not carry any business interruption insurance in China. Sales of our jewelry at both the retail and wholesale levels are seasonally sensitive and are generally strongest during the quarter ending December 31 of each year due to the importance of the holiday selling season. Our retail sales are typically seasonally greater in the fourth quarter and the first quarter of each year due to high spending of consumers during the Christmas and Chinese New Year holidays. Our wholesale sales are typically greater in the third and fourth quarters of each year in anticipation of the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays. The success of our retail store expansion program in China is dependent upon numerous factors over which we have limited control. The future success of our ENZO retail stores in China is partially dependent upon general economic conditions in China, competitive developments within the retail jewelry sector in China and consumer attitudes, including changes in consumer preferences for certain jewelry styles and materials. In addition, our retail expansion program is also dependent upon a number of factors relating to our stores, including the availability of property for lease, the location of the mall or shopping centre, the availability of desirable -7- Table of Contents locations within a mall, the terms of leases, our relationship with major landlords, and the design and maintenance of our stores. We rely on short-term financing from banks for our daily operation. We rely on short-term borrowings as part of our financing needs. If we fail to achieve timely rollover, extension or refinancing of our short-term debt, we may be unable to meet our obligations in connection with debt service, accounts payable and/or other liabilities when they become due and payable. In addition, we may be exposed to changes in interest rates. If interest rates increase substantially, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Certain of our banking facilities that offer short-term borrowings are collateralized by properties owned by our Chairman, Yu Chuan Yih, and by his personal guarantee. If Mr. Yih withdraws the properties or his personal guarantee, the banking facilities may no longer remain available for use by us. In that event, our daily operations would be adversely affected. We rely geographically on the US market for the majority of our wholesale revenue. Our wholesale business has been our major revenue contributor and accounted for 54% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. Geographically, North America is a major market for our wholesale business and contributes 66% of our wholesale revenues. Accordingly, the revenue of our wholesale business in the US market accounts for 35% of our total revenue. Any continuing decline of the US economy would adversely affect the spending patterns of the US consumers which would, in turn, adversely affect our revenue and income from the region. Our holding company structure creates restrictions on the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations, other than the ownership of our subsidiaries, of which we have control over their operation policies including, among others, payment of dividend. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we, as a holding company, decide in the future to do so, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants and minimum net worth requirements in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into US dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. As a “foreign private issuer”, we are not subject to certain rules promulgated by Nasdaq that other Nasdaq-listed issuers are required to comply with. Our shares of common stock are currently listed on The Nasdaq Global Market and, for so long as our securities continue to be listed, we will remain subject to the rules and regulations established by Nasdaq applicable to listed companies. As permitted under Nasdaq rules applicable to foreign private issuers, we have determined not to comply with the following Nasdaq rules: -8- Table of Contents • our independent directors do not hold regularly scheduled meetings in executive session • the compensation of our executive officers is not determined by an independent committee of the board or by the independent members of the board of directors, and our CEO may be present and participate in the deliberations concerning his compensation • related party transactions are not required to be reviewed or approved by our audit committee or other independent body of the board of directors • we are not required to solicit shareholder approval of stock plans, including those in which our officers or directors may participate; stock issuances that will result in a change in control; the issuance of our stock in related party transactions or other transactions in which we may issue 20% or more of our outstanding shares; or, below market issuances of 20% or more of our outstanding shares to any person We may in the future determine to voluntarily comply with one or more of the foregoing provisions. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us or our management. We are a British Virgin Islands holding company, and substantially all of our assets are located in China and Hong Kong. In addition, all but one of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or substantial portions of the assets of such non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons. Moreover, there is doubt as to whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands, China or Hong Kong would enforce: • judgments of United States courts against us, our directors or our officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or • in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands, China or Hong Kong, liabilities against us or non-residents based upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Some information about us may be unavailable due to exemptions under the Exchange Act for a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information -9- Table of Contents • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations applicable to a security registered under the Exchange Act • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction Because of these exemptions, investors are not provided with the same information which is generally available about domestic public companies organized in the United States. Since we are a British Virgin Islands company, the rights of our shareholders may be more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith, and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. British Virgin Islands law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the laws protecting minority shareholders in US jurisdictions. In addition, the circumstances in which a shareholder of a BVI company may sue the company derivatively, and the procedures and defenses that may be available to the company, may result in the rights of shareholders of a BVI company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the US. Furthermore, our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval which would require shareholder approval under the laws of most US jurisdictions. The directors of a BVI corporation, subject in certain cases to court approval but without shareholder approval, may implement a reorganization, merger or consolidation, the sale of any assets, property, part of the business, or securities of the corporation. Our ability to amend our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in our control without any further action by the shareholders, including a tender offer to purchase our common stock at a premium over then current market prices. We may need to raise capital in the future. Such funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, and, without additional funds, we may not be able to expand our retail business in China. We expect to expend significant resources to expand our retail business in China. We will require substantial funds in order to finance our retail distribution and fund operating expenses. In addition to the funds required to open additional retail locations, additional working capital will be needed to operate these additional retail locations due to longer sales and collection cycles and high inventory levels required to support them. Without these funds, we may not be able to meet our goals. We may seek additional funding through equity or debt financing or through collaborative arrangements with strategic partners. You should also be aware that in the future: • We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available on favorable terms, if at all; -10- Table of Contents • Any available additional financing may not be adequate to meet our goals; and • Any equity financing would result in dilution to stockholders. If we cannot raise additional funds when needed and on acceptable terms, we may not be able to effectively execute our growth strategy (including expanding the number of our retail stores in China), take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. We are dependent on certain key personnel and the loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is, to a certain extent, attributable to the management, sales and marketing, and operational and technical expertise of certain key personnel. Each of our named executive officers, including our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Yu Chuan Yih, performs key functions in the operation of our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these officers or that such personnel may not receive and/or accept competing offers of employment. The loss of a significant number of these employees could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our senior management. Risks Related to Doing Business in the People’s Republic of China A substantial portion of our retail business operations are conducted entirely in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”). Because China’s economy and its laws, regulations and policies are different from those typically found in Western countries and are continually changing, we will face risks, including those summarized below. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by the PRC legal system, which is uncertain. As a result, it may limit the legal protections available to you and us and we may not now be, or remain in the future, in compliance with PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries that own our production facilities and retail stores in China are incorporated under and are governed by the laws of the PRC; a significant portion of our operations are conducted in the PRC; and many of our suppliers are located in the PRC. The PRC government exercises substantial control over virtually every sector of the PRC economy, including the production, distribution and sale of our merchandise. We are required to obtain several membership and approval certificates from these government agencies in order to continue to conduct our business. We may be required to renew such memberships and to obtain approval certificates periodically. In order to operate under PRC law, our PRC subsidiaries require valid licenses, certificates and permits, which must be renewed from time to time. If we were to fail to obtain the necessary renewals for any reason, including sudden or unexplained changes in local regulatory practice, we could be required to shut down all or part of our operations temporarily or permanently. The legal and judicial systems in the PRC are still rudimentary. The laws governing our business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain and enforcement of existing laws -11- Table of Contents is inconsistent. Thus, we can offer no assurance that we are, or will remain, in compliance with PRC laws and regulations. Anti-inflation measures could harm the economy generally and could harm our business. The PRC government exercises significant control over the PRC economy. In recent years, the PRC government has instituted measures to curb the risk of inflation. These measures have included monitoring the exchange rate of the RMB, restrictions on the availability of domestic credit, and limited re-centralization of the approval process for some international transactions. These measures may not succeed in controlling inflation, or they may slow the economy below a healthy growth rate and lead to economic stagnation or recession; in the worst-case scenario, the measures could slow the economy without curbing inflation, causing “stagflation.” The PRC government could adopt additional measures to further combat inflation, including the establishment of price freezes or moratoriums on certain projects or transactions. Such measures could harm the economy generally and hurt our business by limiting the income of our customers available to purchase our merchandise, by forcing us to lower our profit margins, and by limiting our ability to obtain credit or other financing to pursue our expansion plan or maintain our business. -12- Table of Contents 