Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. Risks Related to the Current Environment and Recent Developments Recent instability in the financial markets and global economy may affect our access to capital, our ability to purchase accounts, and the success of our collection efforts which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and revenue. The stress experienced by global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during the second half of 2008. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a recession. This economic downturn has adversely affected the ability and willingness of consumers to pay their debts and resulted in a weaker collection environment in 2008. The economic downturn may continue and unemployment may continue to rise. The ability and willingness of consumers to pay their debts could continue to be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, collections and revenue. Further deterioration in economic conditions in the United States may also lead to higher rates of personal bankruptcy filings. Defaulted consumer loans that we service or purchase are generally unsecured, and we may be unable to collect these loans in the case of personal bankruptcy of a consumer. Increases in bankruptcy filings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, collections and revenue 18 Table of Contents Continued or further credit market dislocations or sustained market downturns may also reduce the ability of lenders to originate new credit, limiting our ability to service or purchase defaulted consumer loans in the future. We are currently in compliance with all of our debt covenants, but the future impact on our operations and financial projections from the challenging economic and business environment may impact our ability to meet our debt covenants in the future. Further, increased financial pressure on the distressed consumer may result in additional regulatory restrictions on our operations and increased litigation filed against us. We are unable to predict the likely duration or severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs and access capital. The current global financial and credit crisis exposes us to a variety of risks. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. Disruptions in the credit markets make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses and debt service obligations. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to limit our investment in growth opportunities or curtail operations. The principal sources of our liquidity are cash flows from operations, including collections on purchased accounts receivable, bank borrowings, nonrecourse borrowings, and equity and debt offerings. As a result of the global financial crisis, there is a risk that one or more lenders in our senior credit facility syndicate could be unable to meet contractually obligated borrowing requests in the future. In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions and the general availability of credit. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the Federal Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken action and are considering taking further actions to address the financial crisis. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility currently being experienced. Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. We are party to certain derivative transactions, such as interest rate swap contracts and foreign exchange contracts, with financial institutions to hedge against certain financial risks. Changes in the fair value of these derivative financial instruments that are not cash flow hedges are reported in income, and accordingly could materially affect our reported income in any period. Moreover, in the light of current economic uncertainty and potential for financial institution failures, we may be exposed to the risk that our counterparty in a derivative transaction may be unable to perform its 19 Table of Contents obligations as a result of being placed in receivership or otherwise. In the event that a counterparty to a material derivative transaction is unable to perform its obligations thereunder, we may experience material losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to our Business Our business is dependent on our ability to grow internally. Our business is dependent on our ability to grow internally, which is dependent upon: · our ability to retain existing clients and expand our existing client relationships; and · our ability to attract new clients. Our ability to retain existing clients and expand those relationships is subject to a number of risks, including the risk that: · we fail to maintain the quality of services we provide to our clients; · we fail to maintain the level of attention expected by our clients; · we fail to successfully leverage our existing client relationships to sell additional services; and · we fail to provide competitively priced services. Our ability to attract new clients is subject to a number of risks, including: · the market acceptance of our service offerings; · the quality and effectiveness of our sales force; and · the competitive factors within the BPO industry. If our efforts to retain and expand our client relationships and to attract new clients do not prove effective, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We compete with a large number of providers in the ARM and CRM industries, and other purchasers of consumer debt. This competition could have a materially adverse effect on our future financial results. We compete with a large number of companies in the industries in which we provide services. In the ARM industry, we compete with other sizable corporations in the U.S. and abroad such as Alliance One, GC Services LP and IntelliRisk Management Corporation, as well as many regional and local firms. In the CRM industry, we compete with large customer care outsourcing providers such as Convergys Corporation, ICT Group, TeleTech Holdings, Inc., and West Corporation. We may lose business to competitors that offer more diversified services, have greater financial and other resources and/or operate in broader geographic areas than we do. We may also lose business to regional or local firms who are able to use their proximity to or contacts at local clients as a marketing advantage. In addition, many companies perform the BPO services offered by us in-house. Many larger clients retain multiple BPO providers, which exposes us to continuous competition in order to remain a preferred provider. Because of this competition, in the future we may have to reduce our fees to remain competitive and this competition could have a materially adverse effect on our future financial results. 20 Table of Contents Our Portfolio Management business competes with other purchasers of delinquent consumer accounts receivable, such as Asset Acceptance Capital Corp., Encore Capital Group, Inc. and Portfolio Recovery Associates, Inc. The purchased accounts receivable business had become increasingly competitive over the past few years, with several new companies entering the market. Historically our industry has attracted a large amount of investment capital. However, the recent downturn in the economy has impacted available capital and collectability, resulting in lower pricing and less competition for portfolios. Our competitors may have greater financial resources or access to credit to purchase portfolios than we do, and may be able to outbid us on available portfolios. In the future we may have to pay more for our portfolios, which could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Many of our clients are concentrated in the financial services, telecommunications, and healthcare sectors. If any of these sectors performs poorly or if there are any adverse trends in these sectors it could materially adversely affect us. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we derived approximately 31.7 percent of our revenue from clients in the financial services sector, approximately 21.9 percent of our revenue from clients in the telecommunications industry, and approximately 12.4 percent of our revenue from clients in the healthcare sector, in each case excluding purchased accounts receivable. If any of these sectors performs poorly, clients in these sectors may do less business with us, or they may elect to perform the services provided by us in-house. If there are any trends in any of these sectors to reduce or eliminate the use of third-party BPO service providers, it could harm our business and results of operations. We have international operations and utilize foreign sources of labor, and various factors relating to our international operations, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, could adversely affect our results of operations. Approximately 6.1% of our 2008 revenues were derived from clients in Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia. Political or economic instability in Canada, the United Kingdom or Australia could have an adverse impact on our results of operations due to diminished revenues in these countries. Our future revenue, costs of operations and profitability could also be affected by a n umber of other factors related to our international operations, including changes in economic conditions from country to country, changes in a country’s political condition, trade protection measures, licensing and other legal requirements, and local tax or foreign exchange issues. Unanticipated currency fluctuations in the Canadian Dollar, British Pound, Euro or the Australian Dollar could lead to lower reported consolidated results of operations due to the translation of these currencies into U.S. dollars when we consolidate our financial results. We provide ARM and CRM services to our U.S. clients utilizing foreign sources of labor through call centers in Canada, India, the Philippines, Barbados, Antigua, Australia, Panama and Mexico. Any polit ical or economic instability in these countries could result in our having to replace or reduce these labor sources, which may increase our labor costs and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies of the countries in which we operate could increase our cost of doing business in those countries. In addition, we expect to expand our operations into other countries and, accordingly, will face similar risks with respect to the costs of doing business in such countries including as a result of any decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies of such countries. There is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully hedge our foreign currency exposure in the future. 21 Table of Contents We seek growth opportunities for our business in parts of the world where we have had little or no prior experience. International expansion into new markets with different cultures and laws poses additional risks and costs, including the risk that we will not be able to obtain the required permits, comply with local laws and regulations, hire, train and maintain a workforce, and obtain and maintain physical facilities in a culture and under laws that we are not familiar with. In addition, we may have to customize certain of our collection techniques to work with a different consumer base in a different regulatory environment. Also, we may have to revise certain of our analytical portfolio techniques as we apply them in different countries. We are dependent on our employees and a higher turnover rate would have a material adverse effect on us. We are dependent on our ability to attract, hire and retain qualified employees. The BPO industry, by its nature, is labor intensive and experiences a high employee turnover rate. Many of our employees receive modest hourly wages and some of these employees are employed on a part-time basis. A higher turnover rate among our employees would increase our recruiting and training costs and could materially adversely impact the quality of services we provide to our clients. If we were unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of employees, we would be forced to limit our growth or possibly curtail our operations. Growth in our business will require us to recruit and train qualified personnel at an accelerated rate from time to time. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees to meet the needs of our business or to support our growth. If we are unable to do so, our results of operations could be harmed. Any increase in hourly wages, costs of employee benefits or employment taxes could also have a materially adverse affect on our results of operations. The employees at one of our offices voted to join a labor union. Our other employees could become unionized in the future, which could increase our costs and result in a loss of customers. In February 2006, the employees at our call center in Surrey, British Columbia, Canada voted in favor of joining the B.C. Government and Services Employees’ Union, and a collective agreement was ratified in the first quarter of 2007. We are currently not aware of any other union organizing efforts at any of our other facilities. Proposed legislation in the United States called the Employee Free Choice Act could make it easier for unions to organize based on card check authorization rather than by secret ballot election and could give third-party arbitrators the ability to impose terms of a collective bargaining agreement upon us and a labor union if we and the union did not agree to the terms of a collective bargaining agreement. If our other employees are successful in organizing a labor union at any of our locations, it could further increase labor costs, decrease operating efficiency and productivity in the future, result in office closures, and result in a loss of customers. If we are not able to respond to technological changes in telecommunications and computer systems in a timely manner, we may not be able to remain competitive. Our success depends in large part on our sophisticated telecommunications and computer systems. We use these systems to identify and contact large numbers of debtors and record the results of our collection efforts, as well as to provide customer service to our clients’ customers. If we are not able to respond to technological changes in telecommunications and computer systems in a timely manner, we may not be able to remain competitive. We have made a significant investment in technology to remain competitive and we anticipate that it will be necessary to continue to do so in the future. Telecommunications and computer technologies are changing 22 Table of Contents rapidly and are characterized by short product life cycles, so we must anticipate technological developments. If we are not successful in anticipating, managing, or adopting technological changes on a timely basis or if we do not have the capital resources available to invest in new technologies, our business could be materially adversely affected. We are highly dependent on our telecommunications and computer systems. As noted above, our business is highly dependent on our telecommunications and computer systems. These systems could be interrupted by terrorist acts, natural disasters, power losses, computer viruses, or similar events. Our business is also materially dependent on services provided by various local and long distance telephone companies. If our equipment or systems cease to work or become unavailable, or if there is any significant interruption in telephone services, we may be prevented from providing services and collecting on accounts receivable portfolios we have purchased. Because we generally recognize revenue and generate operating cash flow primarily through ARM collections and providing CRM services, any failure or interruption of services and collections would mean that we would continue to incur payroll and other expenses without any corresponding income. An increase in communication rates or a significant interruption in communication service could harm our business. Our ability to offer services at competitive rates is highly dependent upon the cost of communication services provided by various local and long distance telephone companies. Any change in the telecommunications market that would affect our ability to obtain favorable rates on communication services could harm our business. Moreover, any significant interruption in communication service or developments that could limit the ability of telephone companies to provide us with increased capacity in the future could harm existing operations and prospects for future growth. We may seek to make strategic acquisitions of companies. Acquisitions involve additional risks that may adversely affect us. From time to time, we may seek to make acquisitions of businesses that provide BPO services. We may be unable to make acquisitions if suitable businesses that provide BPO services are not available at favorable prices due to increased competition for these businesses. We may have to borrow money, incur liabilities, or sell or issue stock to pay for future acquisitions and we may not be able to do so on terms favorable to us, or at all. Additional borrowings and liabilities may have a materially adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. If we issue stock for all or a portion of the purchase price for future acquisitions, our stockholders’ ownership interest may be diluted. Our common stock is not publicly traded and potential sellers may be unwilling to accept equity in a privately held company as payment for the sale of their business. If potential sellers are not willing to accept our common stock as payment for the sale of their business, we may be required to use more of our cash resources, if available, in order to continue our acquisition strategy. Completing acquisitions involves a number of risks, including diverting management’s attention from our daily operations, other additional management, operational and financial resources, system conversions and the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition relationships with customers, suppliers and employees. We might not be able to successfully integrate future 23 Table of Contents acquisitions into our business or operate the acquired businesses profitably, and we may be subject to unanticipated problems and liabilities of acquired companies. Our success depends on our senior management team and if we are not able to retain them, it could have a materially adverse effect on us. We are highly dependent upon the continued services and experience of our senior management team, including Michael J. Barrist, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. We depend on the services of Mr. Barrist and the other members of our senior management team to, among other things, continue the development and implementation of our growth strategies, and maintain and develop our client relationships. Goodwill and other intangible assets represented 57.8 percent of our total assets at December 31, 2008. If the goodwill or the other intangible assets, primarily our customer relationships and trade name, are deemed to be impaired, we may need to take a charge to earnings to write-down the goodwill or other intangibles to its fair value. Our balance sheet includes goodwill, which represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair market value of the net assets of acquired businesses based on their respective fair values at the date of acquisition. Trade name represents the fair value of the NCO name and is an indefinite-lived intangible asset. Other intangibles are composed of customer relationships, which represent the information and regular contact we have with our clients and non-compete agreements. Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment. The test for impairment uses a fair value based approach, whereby if the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill is less than its carrying amount, goodwill would be considered impaired. The trade name intangible asset is also reviewed for impairment on an annual basis. Late in 2008, our ARM and Portfolio Management reporting units experienced a significant reduction in the collectability of both customer-placed and purchased accounts receivable resulting from deteriorating economic conditions. Due to the expected impact of the economic environment, we reduced our 2009 budgeted expectations for each of our reporting units. As a result, our 2008 annual impairment test for goodwill and trade name indicated that the carrying values of all of our reporting units exceeded their fair values, and we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $275.5 million and trade name impairment charges of $14.0 million. If our goodwill or trade name are deemed to be further impaired, we will need to take an additional charge to earnings in the future to write-down the asset to its fair value. We make significant assumptions to estimate the future revenue and cash flows used to determine the fair value of our reporting units. These assumptions include future growth rates, profitability, discount factors, market comparables, future tax rates, and other factors. Variations in any of these assumptions could result in materially different calculations of impairment amounts. If the expected revenue and cash flows are not realized, additional impairment losses may be recorded in the future. Our other intangibles, consisting of customer relationships and non-compete agreements, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. For example, the loss of a larger client could require a review of the customer relationship for impairment. We made significant assumptions to estimate the future cash flows used to determine the fair value of the customer relationship. If we lost a significant 24 Table of Contents customer relationship, the future cash flows expected to be generated by the customer relationship would be less than the carrying amount, and an impairment loss may be recorded. As of December 31, 2008, our balance sheet included goodwill, trade name and other intangibles that represented 33.2 percent, 5.0 percent and 19.6 percent of total assets, respectively, and 216.3 percent, 32.7 percent and 128.0 percent of stockholders’ equity, respectively. Security and privacy breaches of the systems we use to protect personal data could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our databases contain personal data of our clients’ customers, including credit card and healthcare information. Any security or privacy breach of these databases could expose us to liability, increase our expenses relating to the resolution of these breaches and deter our clients from selecting our services. Our data security procedures may not effectively counter evolving security risks, address the security and privacy concerns of existing or potential clients or be compliant with federal, state, and local laws and regulations in all respects. Any failures in our security and privacy measures could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results and comply with the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As a result, investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which could adversely affect our business and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, referred to as Section 404, we are required to include in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our management’s report on internal control over financial reporting and, beginning in fiscal 2009, our registered public accounting firm’s attestation report on our management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. While we have reported no “material weaknesses” in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, we cannot guarantee that we will not have any “significant deficiencies” or “material weaknesses” reported by our independent registered public accounting firm in the future. Compliance with the requirements of Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming. If in the future we fail to complete this evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot timely attest to management’s evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, any failure to establish an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures could cause our current and potential investors and customers to lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which could adversely affect our business. Terrorist attacks, war and threats of attacks and war may adversely impact our results of operations, revenue and profitability. Terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad, as well as war and threats of war or actual conflicts involving the United States or other countries in which we operate, may adversely impact our operations, including affecting our ability to collect our clients’ accounts receivable. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease. They 25 Table of Contents could also result in an adverse effect on the economies of the United States and other countries in which we operate. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, collections and revenue. Risks Related to our ARM Business We are subject to business-related risks specific to the ARM business. Some of those risks are: Most of our ARM contracts do not require clients to place accounts with us, may be terminated on 30 or 60 days notice, and are on a contingent fee basis. We cannot guarantee that existing clients will continue to use our services at historical levels, if at all. Under the terms of most of our ARM contracts, clients are not required to give accounts to us for collection and usually have the right to terminate our services on 30 or 60 days notice. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that existing clients will continue to use our services at historical levels, if at all. In addition, most of these contracts provide that we are entitled to be paid only when we collect accounts. Therefore, for these contracts, we can only recognize revenues upon the collection of funds on behalf of clients. If we fail to comply with government regulation of the collections industry, it could result in the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct business. The collections industry is regulated under various U.S. federal and state, Canadian, United Kingdom and Australian laws and regulations. Many states, as well as Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia, require that we be licensed as a debt collection company. The Federal Trade Commission, referred to as the FTC, has the authority to investigate consumer complaints against debt collection companies and to recommend enforcement actions and seek monetary penalties. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it could result in fines as well as the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct collections, which would materially adversely affect us. State regulatory authorities have similar powers. If such matters resulted in further investigations and subsequent enforcement actions, we could be subject to fines as well as the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct collections, which would materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, new federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, or changes in the ways these rules or laws are interpreted or enforced, could limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. If we expand our international operations, we may become subject to additional government controls and regulations in other countries, which may be stricter or more burdensome than those government controls and regulations to which we are currently subject. Several of the industries we serve are also subject to varying degrees of government regulation. Although our clients are generally responsible for complying with these regulations, we could be subject to various enforcement or private actions for our failure, or the failure of our clients, to comply with these regulations. Risks Related to our CRM Business We are subject to business-related risks specific to the CRM business. Some of those risks are: Consumer resistance to outbound services could harm the CRM services industry. As the CRM services industry continues to grow, the effectiveness of CRM services as a direct 26 Table of Contents marketing tool may decrease as a result of consumer saturation and increased consumer resistance to customer acquisition activities, particularly direct sales and telemarketing. This could result in a decrease in the demand for our CRM services. The CRM division relies on a few key clients for a significant portion of its revenues. The loss of any of these clients or their failure to pay us could reduce revenues and adversely affect results of operations. The CRM division is characterized by substantial revenues from a few key clients. While no individual CRM client represented more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenue, we are exposed to customer concentration within this division. Most of these clients are not contractually obligated to continue to use our services at historic levels or at all. If any of these clients were to significantly reduce the amount of service, fail to pay, or terminate the relationship altogether, our CRM business could be harmed. Government regulation of the CRM industry and the industries we serve may increase our costs and restrict the operation and growth of our CRM business. The CRM services industry is subject to an increasing amount of regulation in the United States and Canada. In the United States, the FCC places restrictions on unsolicited automated telephone calls to residential telephone subscribers by means of automatic telephone dialing systems, prerecorded or artificial voice messages and telephone fax machines, and requires CRM firms to develop a “do not call” list and to train their CRM personnel to comply with these restrictions. The FTC regulates both general sales practices and telemarketing specifically and has broad authority to prohibit a variety of advertising or marketing practices that may constitute “unfair or deceptive acts or practices.” Most of the statutes and regulations in the United States allow a private right of action for the recovery of damages or provide for enforcement by the FTC, state attorneys general or state agencies permitting the recovery of significant civil or criminal penalties, costs and attorneys’ fees in the event that regulations are violated. The Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission enforces rules regarding unsolicited communications using automatic dialing and announcing devices, live voice and fax. We cannot assure you that we will be in compliance with all applicable regulations at all times. We also cannot assure you that new laws, if enacted, will not adversely affect or limit our current or future operations. Several of the industries we serve, particularly the insurance, financial services and telecommunications industries, are subject to government regulation. We could be subject to a variety of private actions or regulatory enforcement for our failure or the failure of our clients to comply with these regulations. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if the effect of government regulation of the industries we serve is to reduce the demand for our CRM services or expose us to potential liability. We, and our employees who sell insurance products, are required to be licensed by various state insurance commissions for the particular type of insurance product sold and to participate in regular continuing education programs. Our participation in these insurance programs requires us to comply with certain state regulations, changes in which could materially increase our operating costs associated with complying with these regulations. Risks Related to our Purchased Accounts Receivable Business We are subject to business-related risks specific to the Purchased Accounts Receivable business. Some of those risks are: 27 Table of Contents Collections may not be sufficient to recover the cost of investments in purchased accounts receivable and support operations. We purchase past due accounts receivable generated primarily by consumer credit transactions. These are obligations that the individual consumer has failed to pay when due. The accounts receivable are purchased from consumer creditors such as banks, finance companies, retail merchants, hospitals, utilities, and other consumer-oriented companies. Substantially all of the accounts receivable consist of account balances that the credit grantor has made numerous attempts to collect, has subsequently deemed uncollectible, and charged off. After purchase, collections on accounts receivable could be reduced by consumer bankruptcy filings. The accounts receivable are purchased at a significant discount, typically less than 10 percent of face value, and, although we estimate that the recoveries on the accounts receivable will be in excess of the amount paid for the accounts receivable, actual recoveries on the accounts receivable will vary and may be less than the amount expected, and may even be less than the purchase price paid for such accounts. In addition, the timing or amounts to be collected on those accounts receivable cannot be assured. If cash flows from operations are less than anticipated as a result of our inability to collect accounts receivable, we may have difficulty servicing our debt obligations and may not be able to purchase new accounts receivable, and our future growth and profitability will be materially adversely affected. We use estimates to report results. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $98.9 million relating to our purchased receivables portfolio. If the amount and/or timing of collections on portfolios are materially different than expected, we may be required to record further impairment charges that could have a materially adverse effect on us. Our revenue is recognized based on estimates of future collections on portfolios of accounts receivable purchased. Although these estimates are based on analytics, the actual amount collected on portfolios and the timing of those collections will differ from our estimates. If collections on portfolios are less than estimated, we may be required to record an allowance for impairment of our purchased receivables portfolio, which could materially adversely affect our earnings, financial condition and creditworthiness. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $98.9 million relating to our purchased receivables portfolio. If we continue to experience adverse effects of the challenging economic and business environment, including changes in financial projections, we may have to recognize further impairment charges on our purchased receivables portfolio. We may be adversely affected by possible shortages of available accounts receivable for purchase at favorable prices. The availability of portfolios of past due consumer accounts receivable for purchase at favorable prices depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including the continuation of the current growth trend in consumer debt and competitive factors affecting potential purchasers and sellers of portfolios of accounts receivable. The growth in consumer debt may also be affected by changes in credit grantors’ underwriting criteria and regulations governing consumer lending. Any slowing of the consumer debt growth trend could result in less credit being extended by credit grantors. Consequently, fewer delinquent accounts receivable could be available at prices that we find attractive. If competitors raise the prices they are willing to pay for portfolios of accounts receivable above those we wish to pay, we may be unable to buy the type and quantity of past due accounts receivable at prices consistent with our historic return targets. In addition, we may 28 Table of Contents overpay for portfolios of delinquent accounts receivable, which may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be unable to compete with other purchasers of past due accounts receivable, which may have an adverse effect on our financial results. We face bidding competition in our acquisitions of portfolios of past due consumer accounts receivable. Some of our existing competitors and potential new competitors may have greater financial and other resources that allow them to offer higher prices for the accounts receivable portfolios. New purchasers of such portfolios entering the market also cause upward price pressures. We may not have the resources or ability to compete successfully with our existing and potential new competitors. To remain competitive, we may have to increase our bidding prices, which may have an adverse impact on our financial results. Risks Related to our Structure We are controlled by an investor group led by One Equity Partners, a private equity firm, and its affiliates, whose interests may not be aligned with those of our noteholders. Our equity investors control the election of our directors and thereby have the power to control our affairs and policies, including the appointment of management, the issuance of additional stock, stock repurchase programs and the declaration and payment of dividends. In addition, our equity investors must consent to the entering into of mergers, sales of substantially all our assets and certain other transactions. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of our equity investors could be in conflict with those of our noteholders. For example if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, our equity investors might pursue strategies that favor equity investors over our debt investors. One Equity Partners may also have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financing or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transaction might involve risk to our noteholders. Additionally, One Equity Partners is not prohibited from making investments in any of our competitors. Risks Related to Our $165.0 million of Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2013 (“Senior Notes”), Our $200.0 million of 11.875 percent Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 (“Senior Subordinated Notes”) and Our Other Indebtedness Our substantial leverage and significant debt service obligations could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations and operate our business. We are highly leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. Our financial performance could be affected by our substantial leverage. At December 31, 2008, our total indebtedness was $1.1 billion, and we had $193,000 of borrowing capacity under the revolving portion of our senior credit facility and $18.3 million of letters of credit outstanding. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. This high level of indebtedness could have important negative consequences to us and our noteholders, including: · we may have difficulty satisfying our obligations with respect to our senior notes and our senior subordinated notes, collectively referred to as the notes; 29 Table of Contents · we may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; · we will need to use all, or a substantial portion, of our available cash flow to pay interest and principal on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities; · some of our debt, including our borrowings under our senior credit facilities, has variable rates of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; · our debt level increases our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; · our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry in general; · our substantial amount of debt and the amount we must pay to service our debt obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · our customers may react adversely to our significant debt level and seek or develop alternative suppliers; · we may have insufficient funds, and our debt level may also restrict us from raising the funds necessary, to repurchase all of the notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of a change of control, which would constitute an event of default under the notes; and · our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments which, among other things, require us to maintain specified financial ratios and limit our ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. Our high level of indebtedness requires that we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of cash to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures or other general corporate or business activities, including future acquisitions. In addition, a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates, including indebtedness under our senior notes and our senior credit facility. If market interest rates increase, debt service on our variable-rate debt will rise, which would adversely affect our cash flow. Although our senior credit facility requires us to employ hedging strategies such that not less than 50 percent of the aggregate principal amount of the term loan carries a fixed rate of interest for a period of three years following consummation of the Transaction, any hedging arrangement in place may not offer complete protection from this risk. Additionally, the remaining portion of the term loan and the revolving portion of the senior credit facility, as well as our other floating rate debt may not be hedged and, accordingly, the portion that is not hedged will be subject to changes in interest rates. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, including the notes, and meet our other ongoing liquidity needs and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may be unsuccessful. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations, including the notes, and to fund our planned capital expenditures and other ongoing liquidity needs, depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or future borrowings may not be available 30 Table of Contents to us under our senior credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We may be unable to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the notes. These alternative measures may be unsuccessful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior credit facility and the indentures governing the notes restrict our ability to use the proceeds from certain asset sales. We may be unable to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair and proceeds that we do receive may be inadequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Despite our current leverage, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks that we and our subsidiaries face. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indentures do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. The revolving credit portion of our senior credit facility provides commitments of up to $100.0 million, $193,000 of which was available for future borrowings, subject to certain conditions, as of December 31, 2008. All of those borrowings are secured, and as a result, are effectively senior to the notes and the guarantees of the notes by our subsidiary guarantors. If we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the notes, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of the notes in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding-up of us. This may have the effect of reducing the amount of proceeds paid to our noteholders. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. Our senior credit facility contains, and the indentures governing the notes contain, a number of restrictive covenants which will limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. Our senior credit facility and the indentures governing the notes impose, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, operating and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Such restrictions affect or will affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: · incur additional indebtedness; · create liens; · pay dividends and make other distributions in respect of our capital stock; · redeem our capital stock; · purchase accounts receivable; · make certain investments or certain other restricted payments; · sell certain kinds of assets; · enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; and · effect mergers or consolidations. 31 Table of Contents In addition, our senior credit facility includes other more restrictive covenants. Our senior credit facility also requires us to achieve certain financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. The restrictions contained in our senior credit facility and the indentures could: · limit our ability to plan for or react to market or economic conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and · adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our senior credit facility and/or the indentures. If an event of default occurs under our senior credit facility, which includes an event of default under the indentures governing the notes, the lenders could elect to: · declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable; · require us to apply all of our available cash to repay the borrowings; or · prevent us from making debt service payments on the notes; any of which could result in an event of default under the notes. The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further financing. If we were unable to repay or otherwise refinance these borrowings when due, our lenders could sell the collateral securing our senior credit facility, which constitutes substantially all of our and our domestic wholly-owned subsidiaries’ assets (other then certain assets relating to portfolio transactions). Although holders of the notes could accelerate the notes upon the acceleration of the obligations under our senior credit facility, we cannot assure you that sufficient assets will remain to repay the notes after we have paid all the borrowings under our senior credit facility and any other senior debt. We are a holding company and we depend upon cash from our subsidiaries to service our debt. If we do not receive cash distributions, dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make payments on the notes. We are a holding company and all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, we are dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of, and cash distributions, dividends and other payments from, our subsidiaries to provide the funds necessary to meet our debt service obligations, including the required payments on the notes. If we do not receive such cash distributions, dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to pay the principal or interest on the notes. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries who are guarantors of the notes are holding companies that will rely on subsidiaries of their own as a source of funds to meet any obligations that might arise under their guarantees. Generally, the ability of a subsidiary to make cash available to its parent is affected by its own operating results and is subject to applicable laws and contractual restrictions contained in its debt instruments and other agreements. Although the indentures governing the notes will limit the extent to which our subsidiaries may restrict their ability to make dividend and other payments to 32 Table of Contents us, these limitations will be subject to significant qualifications and exceptions. The indentures governing the notes also allow us to include the operating results of our subsidiaries in our consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the indentures, for the purpose of determining whether we can incur additional indebtedness under the indentures, even though some of those subsidiaries are subject to contractual restrictions on making dividends or distributions of cash to us for the purposes of servicing such indebtedness. In addition, the indentures allow us to create limitations on distributions and dividends under the terms of our and any of our subsidiaries’ future credit facilities. Moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by our subsidiaries to us under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. As a result, although our subsidiaries may have cash, we or our subsidiary guarantors may be unable to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligations under the notes or the guarantees, as applicable. Each noteholder’s right to receive payments on the notes is effectively junior to those lenders who have a security interest in our assets. Our obligations under the notes and our guarantors’ obligations under their guarantees of the notes are unsecured, but our obligations under our senior credit facility and each guarantor’s obligations under their respective guarantees of the senior credit facility are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our domestic tangible and intangible assets (other than certain assets relating to portfolio transactions) and the assets and a portion of the stock of certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries. If we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under our senior credit facility, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of the notes, even if an event of default exists under the indentures governing the notes at such time. Furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under the notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. In any such event, because the notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which noteholders’ claims could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy noteholders’ claims fully. As of December 31, 2008, the notes and the guarantees were subordinated or effectively subordinated to $670.1 million of indebtedness (representing borrowings under our senior credit facility which did not include availability of approximately $193,000 under the revolving portion of our senior credit facility after giving effect to letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2008). The indentures will permit the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness by us and our restricted subsidiaries in the future, including secured indebtedness. Claims of noteholders will be structurally subordinate to claims of creditors of all of our non-U.S. subsidiaries and some of our U.S. subsidiaries because they have not guaranteed the notes. The notes are not guaranteed by any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, and certain other domestic subsidiaries. Accordingly, claims of holders of the notes will be structurally subordinate to the claims of creditors of these non-guarantor subsidiaries, including trade creditors. All obligations of our non-guarantor subsidiaries will have to be satisfied before any of the assets of such subsidiaries would be available for distribution, upon a liquidation or otherwise, to us or a guarantor of the notes. 33 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2008, our non-guarantor subsidiaries had total liabilities (excluding intercompany liabilities) of $98.9 million, representing 6.9 percent of our total consolidated liabilities. Our non-guarantor subsidiaries accounted for $344.8 million, or 22.8 percent of our consolidated revenue, and had $49.9 million of net loss, compared to our consolidated net loss of $337.1 million, for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition, our non-guarantor subsidiaries accounted for $261.0 million, or 15.3 percent, of our consolidated assets at December 31, 2008. Because a portion of our operations are conducted by subsidiaries that have not guaranteed the notes, our cash flow and our ability to service debt, including our and the guarantors’ ability to pay the interest on and principal of the notes when due, are dependent to a significant extent on interest payments, cash dividends and distributions and other transfers of cash from subsidiaries that have not guaranteed the notes. In addition, any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by subsidiaries that have not guaranteed the notes to us and the guarantors, as applicable, could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency regulations in the jurisdiction in which these subsidiaries operate. Moreover, payments to us and the guarantors by subsidiaries that have not guaranteed the notes will be contingent upon these subsidiaries’ earnings. Our subsidiaries that have not guaranteed the notes are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due pursuant to the notes, or to make any funds available therefore, whether by dividends, loans, distributions or other payments. Any right that we or the guarantors have to receive any assets of any subsidiaries that have not guaranteed the notes upon the liquidation or reorganization of those subsidiaries, and the consequent rights of holders of notes to realize proceeds from the sale of any of those subsidiaries’ assets, will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt of that subsidiary. We also have joint ventures and subsidiaries in which we own less than 100 percent of the equity so that, in addition to the structurally senior claims of creditors of those entities, the equity interests of our joint venture partners or other stockholders in any dividend or other distribution made by these entities would need to be satisfied on a proportionate basis with us. These joint ventures and less than wholly-owned subsidiaries may also be subject to restrictions on their ability to distribute cash to us in their financing or other agreements and, as a result, we may not be able to access their cash flow to service our debt obligations, including in respect of the notes. Each noteholder’s right to receive payments on the notes is junior to all of our existing and future senior indebtedness and the guarantees of the notes is junior to all the guarantors’ existing and future senior indebtedness. The notes are general unsecured obligations that are junior in right of payment to all our existing and future senior indebtedness, including our senior credit facility. The guarantees are general unsecured obligations of the guarantors that are junior in right of payment to all of the applicable guarantor’s existing and future senior indebtedness, including our senior credit facility. We and the guarantors may not pay principal, premium, if any, interest or other amounts on account of the notes or the guarantees in the event of a payment default or certain other defaults in respect of certain of our senior indebtedness, including debt under our senior credit facility, unless the senior indebtedness has been paid in full or the default has been cured or waived. In addition, in the event of certain other defaults with respect to the senior indebtedness, we or the guarantors may not be permitted to pay any amount on account of the notes or the guarantees for a designated 34 Table of Contents period of time. The subordination provisions in the notes and the guarantees provide that, in the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or dissolution of us or any guarantor, our or the guarantor’s assets will not be available to pay obligations under the notes or the applicable guarantee until we or the guarantor has made all payments on its respective senior indebtedness. We and the guarantors may not have sufficient assets after all these payments have been made to make any payments on the notes or the applicable guarantee, including payments of principal or interest when due. As of December 31, 2008, the notes and the guarantees were subordinated or effectively subordinated to $670.1 million of indebtedness (representing borrowings under our senior credit facility which did not include availability of approximately $193,000 under the revolving portion of our senior credit facility after giving effect to letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2008). The indentures will permit the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness, including senior debt, by us and our restricted subsidiaries in the future. If we default on our obligations to pay our other indebtedness, we may be unable to make payments on the notes. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under our senior credit facility that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness could make us unable to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on the notes and substantially decrease the market value of the notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including our senior credit facility), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under the revolving portion of our senior credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to seek and obtain waivers from the required lenders under our senior credit facility to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our senior credit facility and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our senior credit facility, the lenders could exercise their rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Federal and state fraudulent transfer laws may permit a court to void the notes and the guarantees and if that occurs, noteholders may not receive any payments on the notes. The issuance of the notes and the guarantees may be subject to review under federal bankruptcy law or relevant state fraudulent transfer and conveyance statutes. While the relevant laws may vary from state to state, under such laws, generally, the payment of consideration will be a fraudulent conveyance if (1) we paid the consideration with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors or (2) we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return for issuing either the notes or a guarantee, and, in the case of (2) only, one of the following is also true: 35 Table of Contents · we or any of the guarantors was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the incurrence of the indebtedness; or · payment of the consideration left us or any of the guarantors with an unreasonably small amount of capital to carry on the business; or · we or any of the guarantors intended to, or believed that it would, incur debts beyond its ability to pay as they mature. If a court were to find that the issuance of the notes or a guarantee was a fraudulent conveyance, the court could void the payment obligations under the notes or such guarantee or further subordinate the notes or such guarantee to presently existing and future indebtedness of ours or such guarantor, or require the holders of the notes to repay any amounts received with respect to the notes or such guarantee. In the event of a finding that a fraudulent conveyance occurred, noteholders may not receive any repayment on the notes. Further, the voidance of the notes could result in an event of default with respect to our and our subsidiaries’ other debt that could result in the acceleration of such debt. Generally, an entity would be considered insolvent if, at the time it incurred indebtedness: · the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair salable value of all its assets; or · the present fair salable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts and liabilities, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or · it could not pay its debts as they become due. We cannot be certain as to the standards a court would use to determine whether or not we or the guarantors were solvent at the relevant time, or regardless of the standard that a court uses, that the issuance of the notes and the guarantees would not be further subordinated to our or any of our guarantors’ other debt. If the guarantees were legally challenged, any guarantee could also be subject to the claim that, since the guarantee was incurred for our benefit, and only indirectly for the benefit of the applicable guarantor and none of the proceeds of the notes were paid to any guarantor, the obligations of the applicable guarantor were incurred for less than fair consideration. A court could thus void the obligations under the guarantees, subordinate them to the applicable guarantor’s other debt or take other action detrimental to the holders of the notes. Noteholders’ ability to transfer the notes may be limited by the absence of an active trading market, and there is no assurance that any active trading market will develop for the notes. The notes are securities for which there is no existing public market. Accordingly, the development or liquidity of any market for the notes is uncertain. We cannot assure noteholders as to the liquidity of markets that may develop for the notes, noteholders’ ability to sell the notes or the price at which noteholders would be able to sell the notes. We do not intend to apply for a listing of the notes on a securities exchange or on any automated dealer quotation system. The placement agents of the notes have advised us that they intend to make a market in the notes, as permitted by applicable laws and regulations. However, the placement agents are not obligated to make a market in the notes, and they may discontinue their market-making activities at any time without notice. Additionally, we are controlled by One Equity Partners, an affiliate of 36 Table of Contents J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., one of the placement agents of the notes. As a result of this affiliate relationship, if J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. conducts any market making activities with respect to the notes, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. will be required to deliver a market making prospectus when effecting offers and sales of the notes. For as long as a market making prospectus is required to be delivered, the ability of J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. to make a market in the notes may, in part, be dependent on our ability to maintain a current market making prospectus for its use. If we are unable to maintain a current market making prospectus, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. may be required to discontinue its market making activities without notice. Therefore, we cannot assure you that an active market for the notes or notes will develop or, if developed, that it will continue. Historically, the market for non-investment grade debt has been subject to disruptions that have caused substantial volatility in the prices of securities similar to the notes. The market, if any, for the notes may experience similar disruptions and any such disruptions may adversely affect the prices at which noteholders may sell the notes. In addition, the notes may trade at discounts from their initial offering prices, depending upon prevailing interest rates, the market for similar notes, our financial and operating performance and other factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 