ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Highly-Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Failure of our U.S. schools to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations, loss of federal and state financial aid funding for our students, or loss of our authorization to operate our U.S. schools. A significant portion of our revenue and cash flows derive from Title IV Programs, as a significant portion of our U.S.-based students rely on Title IV Program funds to finance their education. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the ED, and be certified by the ED as an eligible institution. Most ED requirements are applied on an institutional basis, with an institution defined by the ED as a main campus and any of its branch campuses or locations. All of our U.S. schools participate in Title IV Programs and so are subject to extensive regulation by the ED, various state agencies and accrediting commissions. These regulatory requirements cover virtually all phases of our U.S. schools’ operations, including educational program offerings, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing and recruiting, financial operations, payment of refunds to students who withdraw, return of funds to the Title IV programs for students who withdraw, acquisitions or opening of new institutions, addition of new educational programs, and changes in our corporate structure and ownership. The following are some of the most significant regulatory requirements and risks related to governmental and accrediting body oversight of our business: • Our U.S. schools may lose their eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if their student loan default rates are greater than the standards set by the ED. • We may be required to post a letter of credit or accept other limitations to continue our U.S. schools’ participation in Title IV Programs if we or our schools do not meet the ED’s financial responsibility standards or if our schools do not correctly calculate and timely return Title IV Program funds for students who withdraw before completing their program of study. • The ability of our U.S. schools to participate in Title IV Programs may be impaired if regulators do not approve a change of control of us or any of our U.S. schools or of schools we acquire on a timely basis. • Any of our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if, on a cash basis, the percentage of the U.S. school’s revenue derived from Title IV Programs for two consecutive fiscal years is greater than 90%. • We may be required to accept limitations to continue our U.S. schools’ participation in Title IV Programs if we fail to satisfy the ED’s administrative capability standards. • Our U.S. schools are subject to sanctions if payments of impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments are made to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities. The agencies that regulate our U.S. schools periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. We cannot predict with certainty how all of the requirements applied by these agencies will be interpreted or whether our schools will be able to comply with these requirements in the future. 26 Table of Contents Government agencies, regulatory agencies, and third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us based on alleged violations of the extensive regulatory requirements applicable to us, which could require us to pay monetary damages, be sanctioned or limited in our operations, and expend significant resources to defend against those claims. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may bring claims or actions against us based on alleged violations of the extensive regulatory requirements discussed above. If one of our U.S. schools were to violate any of these regulatory requirements, these agencies could (a) impose monetary fines or penalties, (b) require repayment of funds received under Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs, (c) place restrictions on or terminate our U.S. schools’ eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs, (d) place limitations on or terminate our U.S. schools’ operations or ability to grant degrees and certificates, (e) restrict or revoke our U.S. schools’ accreditations, (f) place limits on our ability to open new schools or offer new programs, or (g) subject us or our U.S. schools to civil or criminal penalties. Any one of these sanctions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Any failure to comply with state authorization and regulatory requirements, or new state legislative or regulatory initiatives affecting our business, could have an adverse effect on our enrollments, business operations, and access to Title IV funds. Our schools are subject to extensive state-level regulation and oversight by state licensing agencies, whose approval is necessary to allow an institution to operate and grant degrees or diplomas. State laws vary from state to state, but generally establish standards for faculty qualifications, location and nature of facilities, financial policies, new programs and student instruction, administrative staff, marketing and recruitment, and other operational and administrative procedures. Loss of state authorization for a school results in a school being ineligible to participate in Title IV Programs. Any failure of one of our U.S. schools to maintain state authorization would result in that school being unable to offer educational programs and students attending the campus being ineligible for Title IV Programs. If any of our U.S. schools were to lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, and we could not arrange for adequate alternative financing sources for students attending that school, we could be forced to close it. The closing of any of our U.S. schools could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even if we maintain compliance with applicable governmental and accrediting body regulations, increased regulatory scrutiny or adverse publicity arising from allegations of non-compliance may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our financial results, growth rates, and prospects. See “Student Financial Aid” in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the regulatory requirements that apply to us and our U.S. schools. State legislatures often consider legislation affecting regulation of postsecondary educational institutions; enactment of this legislation and ensuing regulations impose substantial costs on our schools to modify their operations in order to comply with the changing regulatory environment. Several states have attempted to assert jurisdiction over schools that hire faculty or staff who live in the state, that advertise and recruit students in the state, or that that have no physical location in the state but offer online programs to students who reside in the state. In the future, states may enact legislation or issue regulations that specifically address online educational programs such as those offered by AIU, CTU and IADT or otherwise affect our schools’ operations. If we fail to comply with current state licensing or authorization requirements, or determine that we are unable to cost-effectively comply with new state licensing or authorization requirement, we will lose enrollments and revenues in any affected states, which could materially affect our revenues and our growth opportunities. 27 Table of Contents Our schools’ eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs depends on complying with ED’s financial responsibility standards, administrative capability standards, student loan default rates and the “90-10 Rule.” To participate in Title IV Programs, our schools must satisfy the ED’s quantitative financial responsibility tests, or post a letter of credit in favor of the ED, or possibly accept operating restrictions. The ED applies the financial responsibility tests annually based on the school’s audited financial statements and may apply the tests if a school undergoes a change in control or other circumstances. ED also may apply the tests to us, as the parent company of our schools, and to other related entities. The ED’s operating restrictions include transferring institutions to a cash monitoring system or reimbursement instead of the ED’s standard advance funding of Title IV funds, which may result in a significant delay in receiving the funds. Our schools must satisfy the ED’s administrative capability criteria regarding administration of Title IV funds, covering staffing, procedures for disbursing and safeguarding Title IV funds, reporting and other procedural matters. If a school fails to meet these criteria, the ED may require repayment of previously disbursed Title IV funds, place the school on provisional certification status, or transfer the school from the ED’s advance funding arrangement to another funding program, impose fines, or limit or terminate the school’s participant in Title IV Programs. If the rates at which our former students default on repaying their federally guaranteed or federally funded students loans exceed ED-specified percentages, one or more of our schools could lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs for several years or be placed on provisional certification status by the ED. Our U. S. schools must meet HEA’s “90-10 Rule” to continue participating in Title IV Programs. Under that rule, a proprietary school that fails to derive at least 10% of its revenue from non-Title IV sources at the end of a fiscal year will be placed on provisional participation status for two fiscal years. If the school does not satisfy the 90-10 rule for two consecutive fiscal years, it loses its eligibility to participate in the Title IV Programs for at least two fiscal years. If a school violates the 90-10 Rule and became ineligible to participate in Title IV Programs but continues to disburse Title IV Program funds, the ED would require the school to repay all Title IV Program funds received by it after the effective date of the loss of eligibility. Currently, 10 of our schools are on provisional certification with ED, four due to ED ongoing program reviews, four due to administrative capability, one due to ED’s ongoing program reviews and administrative capability, and one due to administrative capability and unresolved audit liabilities. Failure of our schools to maintain eligibility for Title IV programs could increase our costs of regulatory compliance and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. See “Student Financial Aid” in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the regulatory requirements that apply to us and our U.S. schools. Increased scrutiny by various governmental agencies regarding student loan activities, including relationships between student loan providers and educational institutions and their employees, have produced uncertainty concerning restrictions applicable to administration of Title IV loan programs and the funding for those programs. If these uncertainties are not satisfactorily or timely resolved, we may face increased regulatory burdens and costs or experience adverse impacts on our student enrollment. Investigations, claims, and actions against us and other companies in our industry could adversely affect our business and stock price. We and a number of our peer companies in the for-profit, postsecondary education industry have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and litigation in recent years. In particular, allegations of wrongdoing have resulted in reviews or investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice, the SEC, the ED, state agencies, and accrediting agencies of us and our schools. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage and have been the subject of federal and state legislative hearings. In 2007 and 2008, state attorneys general, the ED, Congress and other parties have increasingly focused on student loan programs, including Title IV programs. 28 Table of Contents There have been allegations of conflicts of interest between some institutions and lenders that provide Title IV loans, lenders providing questionable incentives to schools or school employees, claims of deceptive marketing practices for student loans, and schools steering students to specific lenders. We are among the schools that have entered into a code of conduct regarding student referrals to lenders with the states of New York and Illinois, as well as New Jersey for our Gibbs College in Livingston, New Jersey. Allegations against the overall student lending and postsecondary education sectors may impact general public perceptions of educational institutions, including us, in a negative manner. Adverse media coverage regarding other educational institutions or regarding us directly could damage our reputation, reduce student demand for our programs, adversely impact our revenues and operating profit or result in increased regulatory scrutiny. Risks Related to Our Business A substantial decrease in student financing options, or a significant increase in financing costs for our students, could have a material adverse affect on our student population, revenue and financial results. Tightened credit markets in the U.S. business economy, recent federal legislation and regulations affecting higher education and addressing credit market problems, any changes in federal funding levels for federal student financial aid programs, or changes in other governmental or regulatory bodies’ laws, regulations and practices relating to other student financial aid programs, could adversely affect our business. On January 18, 2008, we received notification that Sallie Mae would be terminating its recourse loan program with us, and more broadly within all of the postsecondary education market. Sallie Mae also notified us that while it intends to continue their non-recourse programs with us, Sallie Mae was also reviewing various aspects of such programs, including underwriting criteria. Sallie Mae agreed to extend the recourse loan program past the 30-day termination period to March 31, 2008. During the extension period the discount fee on loans certified during that period increased from 25% to 44%. We were notified by Sallie Mae on February 14, 2008 that it would no longer continue to offer recourse loans to existing students entering their second or subsequent academic term. We are working with third parties as well as internally to implement a funding program that will assist these students in continuing their program of study. We have provided payment plans directly to certain students to ensure that they can finish their existing educational programs with us and to allow new students to attend our schools. As of December 31, 2008, we have committed to approximately $36 million of funding through extended payment plans. The cumulative impact of recent regulatory and market developments has caused some lenders, including some lenders that have previously provided Title IV loans to our students, to cease providing Title IV loans to students. Other lenders have reduced the benefits and increased the fees associated with the Title IV loans they do provide. In addition, the new regulatory refinements may result in higher administrative costs for schools, including us. If the costs of Title IV loans increase or if availability decreases, some students may decide not to enroll in a postsecondary institution, which could have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, revenue and results of operations. In May 2008, new federal legislation was enacted to attempt to ensure that all eligible students will be able to obtain Title IV loans in the future and that a sufficient number of lenders will continue to provide Title IV loans. Among other things, the new legislation: • authorizes the ED to purchase Title IV loans from lenders, thereby providing capital to the lenders to enable them to continue making Title IV loans to students; and • permits the ED to designate institutions eligible to participate in a “lender of last resort” program, under which federally recognized student loan guaranty agencies will be required to make Title IV loans to all otherwise eligible students at those institutions. We cannot predict whether this legislation will be effective in ensuring students’ access to Title IV loan funding through private lenders. 29 Table of Contents The Higher Education Opportunity Act (“HEOA”), signed into law on August 14, 2008, is the first full reauthorization of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, since 1998. The HEOA continues Title IV programs through at least September 30, 2014. The HEOA imposes a substantial number of new student lending-related reporting and disclosure obligations on institutions that participate in Title IV federal student financial aid programs. In addition, Congress must annually appropriate funds for Title IV programs. Pending regulations under HEOA and Congress’ willingness or ability to maintain or increase funding for Title IV programs could adversely impact our ability to participate in the Title IV programs and the availability of Title IV and non-Title IV funding sources for our students. The August 2008 reauthorization of the Higher Education Act includes significant revisions to the requirements concerning cohort default rates. Under the revised law, the period for which students default on their loans are included in the calculation of an institution’s cohort default rate has been extended by one additional year, which is expected to increase the cohort default rates for most institutions. That change will be effective with the calculation of institutions’ cohort default rates for the federal fiscal year ending September 30, 2009, which rates are expected to be calculated and issued by the ED in 2012. Ineligibility to participate in Title IV Programs would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. On October 23, 2008, Congress enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, which provides authority for the federal government to purchase and insure certain types of troubled assets for the purposes of providing stability to and preventing disruption in the economy and financial system and protecting taxpayers, and for other purposes. These actions, as well as private lenders’ willingness and ability to make private student loans and the U.S. markets and general economic conditions, could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, any actions by the U.S. Congress that significantly reduce funding for Title IV Programs or the ability of our students to participate in these programs, or establish different or more stringent requirements for our U.S. schools to participate in Title IV Programs, could have a material adverse effect on our student population, results of operations and cash flows. Budget constraints in states that provide state financial aid to our students could reduce available financial aid, which could adversely affect our student population. Alternatively, improved state financing may result in increased support for lower-priced public institutions, which may increase competition for students. A significant number of states in which our schools operate face budget constraints that may reduce state appropriations in a number of areas. These states could reduce the amount of state student financial aid that they provide, but we cannot predict the amount or timing of any such reductions. If state funding for our students decreases and our students are unable to secure alternative sources of funding for their education, our student population could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Increased state support for public institutions and community colleges, resulting in increased competition for students, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. If we are unable to successfully resolve pending litigation and regulatory and governmental inquiries involving us, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected. We are subject to various lawsuits, investigations and claims covering a range of matters, including, but not limited to, claims involving students and employees. Please see Note 11 “Commitments and Contingencies” of the notes to our consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of these matters. Additionally, we have been, and may currently be, the subject of qui tam actions filed in federal court by individual plaintiffs on behalf of themselves and the federal government alleging that we submitted false claims or statements to the ED in violation of the False Claims Act. Qui tam actions are filed under seal, and remain under seal until the 30 Table of Contents government decides whether it will intervene in the case. If the government elects to intervene in an action, it assumes primary control of that matter; if the government elects not to intervene; individual plaintiffs may continue the litigation at their own expense on behalf of the government. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters and expect to continue to incur significant defense costs and other expenses in connection with them. These costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. We may also be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage related to these matters, which could have a further material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common stock. In addition, government investigations and any related legal and administrative proceedings may result in the institution of administrative, civil injunctive or criminal proceedings against us and/or our current or former directors, officers or employees; or the imposition of significant fines, penalties or suspensions, or other remedies and sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common stock. If we fail to effectively identify, pursue and integrate acquired schools, both in the U.S. and outside of the U.S., our growth could be slowed and our profitability may be adversely affected. Acquisitions are one component of our overall long-term growth. From time to time, we engage in evaluations of, and discussions with, possible domestic and international acquisition candidates. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, acquire institutions on favorable terms, or successfully integrate or profitably operate acquired institutions. Using debt to finance future acquisitions or issuing securities in connection with future acquisitions could dilute the holdings of our stockholders. Because an acquisition is considered a change in ownership and control of the acquired institution under applicable regulatory standards, we must obtain approval from the ED, most applicable state agencies and accrediting agencies and possibly other regulatory bodies when we acquire an institution. We have in the past, and may in the future, acquire schools in international markets. There may be difficulties and complexities associated with our expansion into international markets, and our business strategies may not succeed beyond our current markets. If we do not effectively address these risks, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired. If we fail to effectively identify, establish, and operate new schools and new branch campuses of our existing schools, or to offer new educational programs, our growth may be slowed and our profitability may be adversely affected. As part of our business strategy, we anticipate opening new schools, new branch campuses of our existing schools throughout the U.S, and offering new educational programs. These activities require us to invest in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing and advertising expenses, and devote resources that are different than those required to operate our existing schools. We may be unable to identify or acquire suitable expansion opportunities to help maintain or accelerate our current growth rate, or to successfully integrate a new school or branch campus. Any failure by us to effectively identify, establish and manage the operations of a new school or branch campus could slow our growth and make any newly-established school or branch campus more costly to operate than we had planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We need timely approval by applicable regulatory agencies to offer new programs, expand our operations into certain states, or acquire additional schools. If those approvals are not timely, we may have to repay Title IV funds disbursed to students enrolled in these programs, schools and states. To open a new school or branch campus, or establish a new educational program, we are required to obtain the appropriate approvals from applicable state and accrediting regulatory agencies, which may be conditioned, 31 Table of Contents delayed or denied in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. Approval by these regulatory agencies may be negatively impacted due to regulatory inquiries or reviews and any adverse publicity relating to such matters. In addition, to be eligible to participate in Title IV Programs, the ED and applicable state and accrediting bodies must certify a new school or branch campus. Our ability to open new schools or new branch campuses of existing schools may be adversely affected by the regulatory matters described in Note 11,” Commitments and Contingencies” of the notes to our consolidated financial statements. If we continue to make acquisitions in foreign countries, we will be subject to the risks inherent in operating in those countries. If we continue to acquire schools outside of the U.S., we will be subject to risks inherent in having non-domestic operations, including unfamiliar statutes and regulations for employees and postsecondary institutions, currency exchange rate fluctuations, limits on repatriation of profits, U.S. foreign tax treaties and taxing authority, and possible economic or political instability in the countries in which we expand. Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to keep pace with changing market needs and technology. Increasingly, prospective employers of students who graduate from our schools demand that their new employees possess appropriate technological skills and also appropriate “soft” skills, such as communication, critical thinking and teamwork skills. These skills can evolve rapidly in a changing economic and technological environment, so it is important for our schools’ educational programs to evolve in response to those economic and technological changes. Current or prospective students or the employers of our graduates may not accept expansion of our existing programs, improved program content and the development of new programs. Even if our schools are able to develop acceptable new and improved programs in a cost-effective manner, our schools may not be able to begin offering them as quickly as prospective employers would like or as quickly as our competitors offer similar programs. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, unusually rapid technological changes, or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired, the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer, and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our new management team could negatively impact our business. A new management team has been put in place over the past 18 months. The new members of our management team may need to invest significant time in learning our business and our markets. Uncertainty may still exist in the marketplace and among students and employees as to how we will perform under the new leadership team. Our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted if the members of our management team cannot effectively manage and operate our business. Our corporate realignment initiatives may strain our resources, impair our operations and ability to manage our business effectively, and adversely impact our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In 2007 and 2008, we undertook various corporate realignment initiatives to reduce costs and increase the use of shared services. In connection with these initiatives, we have restructured our organization and eliminated certain positions. Further reductions may occur as we continue to implement these initiatives. There are severance and other employee-related costs associated with our workforce reductions, and our realignment plan may yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond the planned reduction. Many of the employees who were terminated possessed specific knowledge or expertise, which we may be unable to transfer to others in our organization. Our corporate realignment initiatives may reduce employee morale and create concern about job security, leading to difficulty in hiring or increased turnover in our current workforce. Employees who were terminated may also go to work for our competitors. Turnover and loss of expertise may place undue strain upon our operational effectiveness and resources. 32 Table of Contents The loss of our key personnel could harm our business. Our future success depends largely on the skills, efforts, and motivation of our executive officers and other key personnel, as well as on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified corporate management and our schools’ ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty members and administrators. We face competition in hiring personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. In addition, to support our growth, we must hire, retain, develop and train qualified admissions representatives who are dedicated to student recruitment. If we are unable to hire, develop, and train qualified admissions representatives, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts could be adversely affected. If our graduates are unable to obtain professional licenses or certification in their chosen field of study, we may face declining enrollments and revenues or student claims against us. Many of our students, particularly in the healthcare programs, require or desire professional licenses and certifications in order to obtain employment in their chosen fields. Many factors affect a student’s ability to become licensed, including whether the student’s program and institution are accredited by a particular accrediting commission or approved by a professional association or by the state in which the student seeks employment, and the student’s own qualifications and attainment. If one or more states deny licenses to a significant number of our students due to factors relating to our institutions or programs, we could suffer reputational harm and declining enrollments in those institutions or programs, or face student claims or litigation that could affect our revenues and results of operations. Our future operating results and the market price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected if we are required to write down the carrying value of goodwill associated with any of our operating divisions in the future. In accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“SFAS 142”), we review our goodwill balances for impairment on at least an annual basis through the application of a fair-value-based test. Our estimate of fair-value for each of our operating divisions is based primarily on projected future results and cash flows and other assumptions. In the future, if we are required to significantly write down the carrying value of goodwill associated with any of our operating divisions in accordance with SFAS 142, our operating results and the market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected. We could experience decreasing enrollments or decreasing growth in our enrollments in our schools due to changing demographic trends in family size, overall declines in enrollment in postsecondary schools, job growth in fields unrelated to our core disciplines, or other societal factors. Projections in a September 2008 NCES report show enrollment in degree-granting postsecondary institutions increasing 12% to approximately 19.9 million students over the 10-year period ending in fall 2016, slower than the 23.6% increase reported for the prior 10-year period of 14.4 million in 1996 to 17.8 million in 2006. Such a decline in the overall growth rate in our industry would result in increased competition for students for our programs and could impact our ability to attract and retain students and affect our growth rate in enrollments. If we cannot attract new students, or develop new curricula to attract prospective students who seek degrees in fields other than our core disciplines, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategies, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations, financial condition and market price of our common stock. 33 Table of Contents Capacity constraints or system disruptions to our online computer networks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain students. Our schools’ online campuses intend to increase student enrollments. To support this growth, we will require more resources, including additional faculty, admissions, academic and financial aid personnel. This growth may place a significant strain on the operational resources of our schools’ online campuses. Our schools’ online campuses’ success depends, in part, on their ability to expand the content of their programs, develop new programs in a cost-effective manner, maintain good standing with regulators and accreditors, and meet students’ needs in a timely manner. New programs can be delayed due to current and future unforeseen regulatory restrictions. Any general decline in internet use for any reason, including security or privacy concerns, cost of internet service or changes in government regulation, could result in less demand for online educational services and inhibit our planned growth in our online programs. For our online and on-ground campuses, the performance and reliability of program infrastructure is critical to their reputation and ability to attract and retain students. Our delivery of these programs could be hindered by computer system error or failure, significant increase in traffic on our computer networks, or any significant failure or unavailability of our computer networks due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters and network and telecommunications failures. Any interruption to our schools’ computer systems or operations could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our schools’ to attract and retain students. Our computer networks may also be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security threats. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Due to the sensitive nature of the information contained on our networks, such as students’ grades, hackers may target our networks. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Although we continually monitor the security of our technology infrastructure, we cannot assure that these efforts will protect our computer networks against security breaches. Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our schools and programs among high school graduates and working adults. If our schools are unable to successfully market and advertise their educational programs, our schools’ ability to attract and enroll prospective students in such programs could be adversely affected, and, consequently, our ability to increase revenue or maintain profitability could be impaired. Some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing and advertising our schools and the programs that they offer include, but are not limited to, student or employer dissatisfaction with educational programs and services, diminished access to high school students, our failure to maintain or expand our brand names or other factors related to our marketing or advertising practices, costs and effectiveness of internet and other advertising programs, and changing media preferences of our target audiences. We compete with a variety of educational institutions, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our student population and revenue could be adversely impacted. The postsecondary education industry is highly fragmented and competitive. Our schools compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities, other proprietary schools, including those that offer online education programs, and alternatives to higher education, such as immediate employment and military service. Some public and private institutions charge lower tuition for courses of study similar to those offered by our schools due, in part, to government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions, and other financial resources not available to proprietary institutions. Our public 34 Table of Contents and private sector competitors may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. We expect to experience more competition as more colleges, universities, and for-profit schools increase their online program offerings. An increase in competition could affect the success of our marketing efforts and enable our competitors to recruit prospective students more effectively, or reduce our tuition charges and increase spending for marketing efforts, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our credit agreement limits our ability to take various actions. Our credit agreement limits our ability to take various actions, including paying dividends and disposing of assets and may restrict us from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. Our credit agreement also requires us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. A breach of any of those covenants could result in an event of default under the agreement and allow the lenders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any indebtedness outstanding, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Our future operating results and financial conditions would be materially adversely affected if a “change in control” is deemed to occur under our share-based compensation plans. As of January 2, 2009, one stockholder owned 17.7% of the combined voting power of our then outstanding common stock. If any person or entity (including a group) were to acquire and beneficially own 20% or more of the combined voting power of our common stock under our 1998 Employee Incentive Compensation Plan and 1998 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, or 35% or more of the combined voting power of our common stock under our 2008 Incentive Compensation Plan, a change in control for purposes of those plans would be deemed to have occurred. If a change in control occurred, we would be required to accelerate share-based compensation expense and record an additional liability in an amount equal to the estimated obligation that would be due to those plan participants who have the right and choose to surrender all or part of a share-based award in exchange for cash. This recognition of additional expense could have a material adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. See Note 14, “Share-Based Compensation” of the notes to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the effects of a change in control under our share-based compensation plans. We are subject to privacy laws and regulations both domestically and in the countries in which our foreign schools operate, due to our collection and use of personal information. Any violations of those laws, or any breach, theft or loss of that information, could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Our efforts to attract and enroll students result in us collecting, using and keeping substantial amounts of personal information regarding applicants, our students, faculty, their families and alumni, including social security numbers, financial data, or health data. We also maintain personal information about our employees in the ordinary course of business. Our services, the services of many of our health plan and benefit plan vendors, and other information can be accessed globally through the internet. Our computer networks and those of our vendors that manage confidential information for us may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, theft or misuse, hackers, computer viruses, or third parties in connection with hardware and software upgrades and changes. Our services can be accessed globally via the Internet, so we may be subject to privacy laws in countries outside the U.S. from which students access our services, which laws may constrain the way we market and provide our services. While we utilize security and business controls to limit access to and use of personal information, any breach of student or employee privacy or errors in storing, using or transmitting personal information could violate privacy laws and regulations resulting in fines or other penalties. A breach, theft of loss of personal information held by us or our vendors, or a violation of the laws and regulations governing privacy could have a material adverse effect on our reputation or result in additional regulation, compliance costs or investments in additional security systems to protect our computer networks. 35 Table of Contents We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we may encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States and select foreign jurisdictions to protect our rights to our marks as well as distinctive logos and other marks associated with our services. We cannot assure you that these measures will be adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to duplicate the proprietary aspects of our curricula, online resource material and other content. Our management’s attention may be diverted by these attempts, and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. Third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of class materials posted online for class discussions. In some instances our faculty members or our students may post various articles or other third-party content on class discussion boards or download third-party content to personal computers. We may incur claims or liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of this material. Any such claims could subject us to costly litigation and could impose a strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether the claims have merit. A protracted economic slowdown and rising unemployment could harm our business. We believe that many students pursue postsecondary education to be more competitive in the job market. However, a protracted economic slowdown could increase unemployment and diminish job prospects generally. Diminished job prospects and heightened financial worries could affect the willingness of students to incur loans to pay for postsecondary education and to pursue postsecondary education in general. As a result, our enrollment could suffer. We may incur costs in complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and with similar laws. The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, requires all public accommodations to meet federal requirements for access and use by disabled individuals. Other federal, state, and local laws and regulations also may impose similar or additional accessibility requirements. For example, the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, or FHAA, requires apartment properties first occupied after March 13, 1991, to be accessible to handicapped persons. Typically, our real estate leases require us to pay any costs necessary to comply with all laws, including these accessibility laws, for our premises, which may include parking areas, restaurants at our culinary schools, dormitory facilities and similar facilities in addition to classroom and office space. In opening new schools or locations and acquiring existing schools, we often must build out the premises to satisfy our classroom needs and must incur the costs associated with accessibility compliance in those construction activities. If any of our premises are not compliant with the ADA or FHAA, we could face fines, litigation by private litigants, and orders to correct any non-complying features. 36 Table of Contents Risk Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially in the future. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control. These factors include: • changes in the student lending and credit markets; • our ability to meet or exceed expectations of analysts or investors; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; • general conditions in the for-profit, postsecondary education industry, including changes in the ED, state laws and regulations and accreditation standards, or availability of student financing; • the initiation, pendency or outcome of litigation, regulatory reviews and investigations, and any related adverse publicity; • changes in our earnings estimates by analysts; • future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have particularly affected the market prices of many companies in the for-profit, postsecondary education industry in recent periods; • the loss of key personnel; and • general economic conditions. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent an investor from selling shares of our common stock at or above the price at which the investor acquired the shares. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 