Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business and operations are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, certain risks and uncertainties. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included and incorporated by reference in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 32 The Company could experience an increase in loan losses, which would reduce the Company’s earnings. As the nation slowly continues to recover from the economic downturn, real estate prices remain under pressure in the Company’s market. Furthermore, elevated levels of unemployment have made it difficult for many consumers to meet their monthly obligations. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and our industry has seen above average loan loss levels for approximately forty-eight months. While the Company believes that its loan underwriting standards have been and remain sound, the Company has experienced an increase in charge offs and non-performing loans. To the extent charge offs exceed our financial models, increased amounts charged to the provision for loan losses would reduce net income. Rapidly changing interest rate environments could reduce our net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income. Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of our net income. Interest rates are the key drivers of the Company’s net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in the maturities of the Company’s assets and liabilities. Furthermore, substantially higher rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. Liquidity needs could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Bank’s primary source of funds is customer deposits and cash flows from investment instruments and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source, they are subject to the ability of the borrowers to repay their loans. The ability of the borrowers to repay their loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting the business environment, natural disasters and various other factors. Cash flows from the investment portfolio may be affected by changes in interest rates, resulting in excessive levels of cash flow during periods of declining interest rates and lower levels of cash flow during periods of rising interest rates. Deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including both the national market and local competitive interest rate environment, local and national economic conditions, natural disasters and other various events. Accordingly, the Company may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include the FHLB advances, brokered deposits and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. The Company may also pledge investments as collateral to borrow money from third parties. In certain cases, the Company may sell investment instruments for sizable losses to meet liquidity needs, reducing net income. While the Company believes that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity needs. 33 Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services throughout our market area. Our competitors include other community banks, regional and super-regional banking institutions, national banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies, brokerage companies, and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company. Inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our revenues and net income. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting, hiring, and training expenses, resulting in lower net income. The Company is subject to extensive regulation that can limit or restrict its activities. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various agencies, including the FRB, the MDF and FDIC. The Company’s regulatory compliance is costly. The Company is also subject to capitalization guidelines established by its regulators, which require it and the Bank to maintain adequate capital to support its and the Bank’s growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and the Company cannot predict the effects of these changes on its business. To the extent activities of the Company and/or the Bank are restricted or limited by regulation or regulators’ supervisory authority, the Company’s future profitability may be adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ Global Market that are now and will be applicable to the Company, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, the Company has experienced, and may continue to experience, greater compliance cost. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010 and, although it became generally effective in July 2010, many of its provisions have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities. The Dodd-Frank Act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, could result in a number of adverse impacts. The levels of capital and liquidity with which the Company must operate may be subject to more stringent capital requirements. In addition, the Company may be subjected to higher deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC. The Company may also be subject to additional regulations under the newly established CFPB which was given broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations. These and other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may place significant additional costs on the Company, impede its growth opportunities and place it at a competitive disadvantage. 34 In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, an international forum for cooperation on banking supervisory matters, announced the “Basel III” capital rules, which set new capital requirements for banking organizations. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve Board requested comment on three proposed rules that, taken together, would establish an integrated regulatory capital framework implementing the Basel III regulatory capital reforms in the United States. As proposed, the U.S. implementation of Basel III would lead to significantly higher capital requirements and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios than those currently in place. Once adopted, these new capital requirements would be phased in over time. Additionally, the U.S. implementation of Basel III contemplates that, for banking organizations with less than $15 billion in assets, the ability to treat trust preferred securities as tier 1 capital would be phased out over a ten-year period. The ultimate impact of the U.S. implementation of the new capital and liquidity standards on the Company and the Bank is currently being reviewed. At this point we cannot determine the ultimate effect that any final regulations, if enacted, would have upon our earnings or financial position. In addition, important questions remain as to how the numerous capital and liquidity mandates of the Dodd–Frank Act will be integrated with the requirements of Basel III. Even though the Company’s common stock is currently traded on The NASDAQ National Market, the trading volume in the Company’s common stock has been low and the sale of substantial amounts of its common stock in the public market could depress the price of the Company’s common stock. The trading volume of the Company’s common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on The NASDAQ Global Market or other stock exchanges. Thinly traded stocks, such as the Company’s, can be more volatile than stocks trading in an active public market. Because of this, the Company stockholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of its common stock in the market, or availability of shares of its common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market prices of the Company’s common stock. The Company, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of its common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sale in the market, would not cause the price of its common stock to decline or impair the Company’s ability to raise capital through sales of its common stock. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to its performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Management’s analysis of the necessary funding for the allowance for loan loss account may be incorrect or may suddenly change resulting in lower earnings. The funding of the allowance for loan loss account is the most significant estimate made by management in its financial reporting to shareholders and regulators. If negative changes to the performance of the Company’s loan portfolio were to occur, management may find it necessary or be required to fund the allowance for loan loss account through additional charges to the Company’s provision for loan loss expense. These changes may occur suddenly and be dramatic in nature. These changes are likely to affect the Company’s financial performance, capital levels and stock price. 35 The Series A Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share, and the warrant we issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on the Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Guaranty Federal Bancshares, Inc. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. If we do not redeem the preferred shares prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially and could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, liquidity and cash flows. We have the right to redeem the preferred shares, in whole or in part, at our option at any time. If we do not redeem the preferred shares prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on and after that date, with the dividend rate increasing from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, liquidity and cash flows. Any redemption by us of the preferred shares would require prior regulatory approval from the Federal Reserve. We have not applied for such regulatory approval and have no present intention to redeem any of the preferred shares in the near future; however, if in the future we determine we are able to redeem the preferred shares, it is our intent to redeem before February 15, 2014 prior to the dividend rate increase to 9.0% per annum. If we determine we are able to redeem any of the preferred shares, we may seek such approval and, if such approval is obtained (as to which no assurance can be given), redeem part or all or the preferred shares for cash. Our compensation expense may increase substantially after Treasury’s sale of the preferred shares. As a result of our participation in the CPP, among other things, we are subject to Treasury’s current standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which Treasury holds any of our preferred shares. These standards were most recently set forth in the Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance, published June 15, 2009. If the Treasury elects to sell all of the preferred shares, these executive compensation and corporate governance standards will no longer be applicable and our compensation expense for our executive officers and other senior employees may increase substantially. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 