ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Chapter 11 Cases We are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 cases. We are operating our businesses as debtors and debtors-in-possession under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code and orders of the Bankruptcy Court. As a result, we are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 cases which include, among other things: • our ability to obtain and maintain normal terms with existing and potential homebuyers, vendors and service providers and maintain contracts and leases that are critical to our operations; • limitations on our ability to implement and execute our business plans and strategy; • limitations on our ability to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval with respect to motions in the Chapter 11 cases that we may seek from time to time or potentially adverse decisions by the Bankruptcy Court with respect to such motions, including as a result of the actions of our creditors and other third parties, who may oppose our plans or who may seek to require us to take actions that we oppose; • limitations on our ability to reject contracts or leases that are burdensome or uneconomical; • limitations on our ability to raise capital, including through sales of assets; • our ability to attract, motivate and retain key and essential personnel is impacted by the Bankruptcy Code which limits our ability to implement a retention program or take other measures intended to motivate employees to remain with us; and • our ability to obtain needed approval from the Bankruptcy Court for transactions outside of the ordinary course of business, which may limit our ability to respond on a timely basis to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. These risks and uncertainties could negatively affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, events or publicity associated with our Chapter 11 cases could adversely affect our relationships with 18 Table of Contents existing and potential homebuyers, vendors and employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition, particularly if such cases are protracted. As a result of our Chapter 11 cases and the other matters described herein, including the uncertainties related to the fact that we have not yet had time to complete and obtain confirmation of a plan of reorganization, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern, including our ability to meet our ongoing operational obligations, is dependent upon, among other things: • our ability to generate and maintain adequate cash; • the cost, duration and outcome of the restructuring process; • our ability to comply with the terms of our cash collateral order and, if necessary, seek further extensions of our ability to use cash collateral; • our ability to achieve profitability following a restructuring given housing market challenges; and • our ability to retain key employees. These challenges are in addition to those operational and competitive challenges that we face in connection with our business. In conjunction with our advisors, we are implementing strategies to aid our liquidity and our ability to continue as a going concern. However, such efforts may not be successful. In light of the foregoing, trading in our securities during the pendency of our Chapter 11 cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. These risks include extremely volatile trading prices. In addition, during the pendency of the Chapter 11 cases, the Bankruptcy Court has entered an order that places certain limitations on trading in our common stock and certain securities, including options convertible into our common stock, and has also provided the potentially retroactive application of notice and sell-down procedures for trading in claims against the debtors’ estates (in the event that such procedures are approved in the future). Holders of our securities, especially holders of our common stock, may not be able to resell such securities and, in connection with our reorganization, may have their securities cancelled and in return receive no payment or other consideration, or a payment or other consideration that is less than the par value or the purchase price of such securities. A long period of operating under Chapter 11 may harm our business. A long period of operating under Chapter 11 could adversely affect our businesses and operations. So long as the Chapter 11 cases continue, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the Chapter 11 reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. A prolonged period of operating under Chapter 11 will also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our businesses. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 cases continue, the more likely it is that our customers and suppliers will lose confidence in our ability to successfully reorganize our businesses and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, so long as the Chapter 11 cases continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the cases. A prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 cases may also require us to seek additional financing and obtain relief from certain terms contained in the cash collateral order. It may not be possible for us to obtain additional financing during the term of the Chapter 11 cases on commercially favorable terms or at all. If we require additional financing during the Chapter 11 cases and we are unable to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all, our chances of successfully reorganizing our businesses may be seriously jeopardized. Operating under the Bankruptcy Code may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Among other things, the Bankruptcy Code limits our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; 19 Table of Contents • pay dividends, repurchase our capital stock or make certain other restricted payments or investments; • make investments; • sell assets; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • grant liens; • plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and • finance our operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or joint ventures or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. These restrictions may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are not subject to similar restrictions, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our cash collateral order includes operating budgets and financial covenants that limit our operating flexibility. The cash collateral order requires us to maintain certain financial budgets and covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe such actions are in our best interest. These include, among other things, restrictions on our ability to: • incur indebtedness; • incur liens and enter sale/leaseback transactions except for model homes subject to certain limitations; • make or own investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • engage in new lines of business; • consolidate, merge, sell all or substantially all of our assets; • issue guarantees of debt; • agree to amendment or modification to our organizational documents; • incur or create claims; and • make additional payments on prepetition indebtedness. Limitations in the cash collateral order on making capital expenditures and incurring additional debt may prevent us from pursing new business initiatives, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. The cash collateral order limits the amount of money that we may spend on capital expenditures. Accordingly, we could be unable to make capital expenditures to pursue new business initiatives. Our inability to pursue new business initiatives may put us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors who are not subject to these restrictions. If our competitors successfully pursue new business initiatives, these restrictions may limit our ability to react effectively, and our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. We require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us. Our ability to make payments on, repay or refinance our debt, to fund planned capital expenditures and to generate sufficient working capital to operate our business will depend largely upon our future operating performance. Our future performance is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds depends on the satisfaction of the covenants of our debt agreements that we will have upon our exit from Chapter 11. 20 Table of Contents Additionally, our working capital needs may increase to the extent that our suppliers are unwilling to extend credit to us on satisfactory terms. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, fund capital expenditures or fund our working capital or other liquidity needs. We may not be able to confirm or consummate a plan of reorganization. In order to successfully emerge from our Chapter 11 cases as a viable company, we must develop, obtain requisite creditor and Bankruptcy Court approval of, and consummate a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization. This process requires us to meet certain statutory requirements under the Bankruptcy Code with respect to adequacy of disclosure regarding a plan of reorganization, soliciting and obtaining creditor acceptances of a plan, and fulfilling other statutory conditions for confirmation. We may not receive the requisite acceptances to confirm a plan of reorganization. Even if the requisite acceptances to a plan of reorganization are received, the Bankruptcy Court may not confirm the plan. In addition, even if a plan of reorganization is confirmed, we may not be able to consummate such plan. If a plan of reorganization is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, or if we are unable to successfully consummate a plan after confirmation, we may not be able to reorganize our businesses. If an alternative reorganization could not be agreed upon, we may have to liquidate our assets. We have the exclusive right to file a Chapter 11 plan or plans prior to October 25, 2008 and the exclusive right to solicit acceptance thereof until December 24, 2008. Pursuant to Section 1121 of the Bankruptcy Code, the exclusivity periods may be expanded or reduced by the Bankruptcy Court, but in no event can the exclusivity periods to file and solicit acceptance of a plan or plans of reorganization be extended beyond 18 months and 20 months, respectively. Transfers of our equity, or issuances of equity in connection with our restructuring, may impair our ability to utilize our federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards in the future. Under federal income tax law, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income in any year net operating losses carried forward from prior years. We have net operating loss carryforwards and built in losses (which are treated similarly to net operating losses) of approximately $83.5 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2007. In addition, we have alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of $12.5 million. Our ability to deduct net operating loss carryforwards and recognize the benefits of the built in losses and the alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards could be subject to a significant limitation if we were to undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, during or as a result of our Chapter 11 cases. During the pendency of the Chapter 11 cases, the Bankruptcy Court has entered an order that places certain limitations on trading in our common stock or certain securities, including options, convertible into our common stock. The Bankruptcy Court has also provided the potentially retroactive application of notice and sell-down procedures for trading in claims against the debtors’ estates (in the event that such procedures are approved in the future). These limitations, however, may not prevent an “ownership change” and our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and recognize the benefits of the built in losses and the alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards may be significantly limited as a result of our reorganization. The Bankruptcy Code may limit our secured creditors’ ability to realize value from their collateral. Upon the commencement of a case under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, a secured creditor is prohibited from repossessing its security from a debtor in a Chapter 11 case, or from disposing of security repossessed from such debtor, without Bankruptcy Court approval. Moreover, the Bankruptcy Code generally permits the debtor to continue to retain and use collateral even though the debtor is in default under the applicable debt instruments, provided that the secured creditor is given “adequate protection.” The meaning of the term “adequate protection” may vary according to circumstances, but it is intended to protect the value of the secured creditor’s interest in the collateral and may include cash payments or the granting of additional security if and at such times as the Bankruptcy Court in its discretion determines that the value of the secured 21 Table of Contents creditor’s interest in the collateral is declining during the pendency of a Chapter 11 case. A Bankruptcy Court may determine that a secured creditor may not require compensation for a diminution in the value of its collateral if the value of the collateral exceeds the debt it secures. In view of the lack of a precise definition of the term “adequate protection” and the broad discretionary power of a Bankruptcy Court, it is impossible to predict: • how long payments under our secured debt could be delayed as a result of our Chapter 11 cases; • whether or when secured creditors (or their applicable agents) could repossess or dispose of collateral; or • the value of the collateral. In addition, the instruments governing certain of our indebtedness provide that the secured creditors (or their applicable agents) may not object to a number of important matters following the filing of a bankruptcy petition. Accordingly, it is possible that the value of the collateral securing our indebtedness could materially deteriorate and secured creditors would be unable to raise an objection. Furthermore, if the Bankruptcy Court determines that the value of the collateral is not sufficient to repay all amounts due on applicable secured indebtedness, the holders of such indebtedness would hold a secured claim only to the extent of the value of their collateral and would otherwise hold unsecured claims with respect to any shortfall. The Bankruptcy Code generally permits the payment and accrual of post-petition interest, costs and attorney’s fees to a secured creditor during a debtor’s Chapter 11 case, but only to the extent the value of its collateral is determined by a Bankruptcy Court to exceed the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the obligations secured by the collateral. Our successful reorganization will depend on our ability to retain and motivate key employees. Our success and the successful implementation of a business plan is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our people, particularly senior management. Our ability to attract, motivate and retain key and essential personnel is impacted by the Bankruptcy Code which limits our ability to implement a retention program or take other measures intended to motivate employees to remain with us. In addition, we must obtain U.S. Bankruptcy Court approval of employment contracts and other employee compensation programs. The process of obtaining such approvals, including negotiating with creditor committees (which may raise objections to or otherwise limit our ability to implement such contracts or programs), has resulted in delays and reduced potential compensation for many employees. Certain employees, including certain key members of senior management, have resigned following the filing of our Chapter 11 cases. The continued loss of such individuals or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect upon the implementation of a business plan and on our ability to reorganize successfully and emerge from bankruptcy. Our financial results may be volatile and may not reflect historical trends. While in Chapter 11, we expect our financial results to continue to be volatile as asset impairments, asset dispositions, restructuring activities, contract terminations and rejections and claims assessments may significantly impact our consolidated financial statements. As a result, our historical financial performance is likely not indicative of our financial performance during bankruptcy or post-bankruptcy. Upon emergence from Chapter 11, the amounts reported in our subsequent consolidated financial statements may materially change relative to our historical consolidated financial statements, including as a result of revisions to our operating plans pursuant to our plan of reorganization. In addition, as part of our successful emergence from Chapter 11, we expect that we will be required to adopt fresh start accounting. If fresh start accounting is applicable, our assets and liabilities will be recorded at fair value as of the fresh start reporting date. The fair value of our assets and liabilities may differ materially from the recorded values of assets and liabilities on our consolidated statements of financial condition. In addition, our financial results after the application of fresh start accounting may be different from historical trends. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Capital Resources; Liquidity We have substantial liquidity needs and face liquidity pressure. On February 5, 2008, pursuant to an interim order from the Bankruptcy Court dated January 31, 2008, we entered into the Senior Secured Super-Priority Debtor in Possession Credit and Security Agreement. The agreement provided for a first priority and priming secured revolving credit interim commitment of up to $134.6 million. The agreement was subsequently amended to extend it to June 19, 2008. No funds were drawn under the agreement. The agreement was subsequently terminated and we entered into an agreement with our secured lenders to use cash collateral on hand (cash generated by our operations, including the sale of excess inventory and the proceeds of our federal tax refund of $207.3 million received in April 2008). Under the Bankruptcy Court order dated June 20, 2008, we are authorized to use cash collateral of our first lien and second lien lenders (approximately $358.0 million at the time of the order) for a period of six months in a manner consistent with a budget negotiated by the parties. The order further provides for the paydown of $175.0 million to our first lien term loan facility secured lenders, subject to disgorgement provisions in the event that certain claims against the lenders are successful and repayment is required. The order also reserves our sole right to paydown an additional $15.0 million to our fist lien term loan facility secured lenders. We are permitted under the order to incur liens and enter into sale/leaseback transactions for model homes subject to certain limitations. As part of the order, we have granted the prepetition agents and the lenders various forms of protection, including liens and claims to protect against any diminution of the collateral value, payment of accrued, but unpaid interest on the first priority indebtedness at the non-default rate and the payment of reasonable fees and expenses of the agents under our secured facilities. We continue to have substantial liquidity needs in the operation of our business and face liquidity challenges. Our business depends upon our ability to obtain financing for the acquisition of land, operating costs, development of our residential communities and to provide bonds to ensure the completion of our projects. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash. This, to a large extent, is dependent upon industry conditions, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. The success of our Chapter 11 cases and implementation of our business plan will depend on our ability to achieve our budgeted operating results and access sufficient resources. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely impact our financial health and limit our operations. Our high level of indebtedness has important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy or other purposes; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service the debt; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; and • limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness. We may be unable to obtain additional financing in the future. Our ability to arrange financing (including any extension or refinancing) and the cost of the financing are dependent upon numerous factors, including: • general economic and capital market conditions; • credit availability from banks or other lenders for us and our industry peers, as well as the economy in general; 23 Table of Contents • investor confidence in the industry and in us; and • provisions of tax and securities laws that are conducive to raising capital. Our cash collateral order imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us; any failure to comply with these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our operations. These restrictions could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs. These restrictions limit or prohibit our ability, subject to certain exceptions to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness and issue stock; • make additional prepayments on or purchase indebtedness in whole or in part; • pay dividends and other distributions with respect to our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • incur liens and enter sale/leaseback transactions except for model homes subject to certain limitations; • consolidate or merge with another entity, or allow one of our subsidiaries to do so; • lease, transfer or sell assets and use proceeds of permitted asset leases, transfers or sales; • incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting certain subsidiaries; • engage in certain business activities; and • acquire other businesses. Our ability to comply with these covenants depends in part on our ability to implement our restructuring program during the Chapter 11 cases. If we are unable to achieve the goals associated with our restructuring program and the other elements of our business plan, we may not be able to comply with these covenants. We may incur significant damages and expenses due to the purported class action complaints filed against us and certain of our officers. TOUSA, Inc. is a defendant in a class action lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The name and case number of the class action suit is Durgin, et al., v. TOUSA, Inc., et al., No. 06-61844-CIV. Beginning in December 2006, various stockholder plaintiffs brought lawsuits seeking class action status in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. At a hearing held March 29, 2007, the Court consolidated the actions and heard arguments on the appointment of lead plaintiff and counsel. On September 7, 2007, the Court appointed Diamondback Capital Management, LLC as the lead plaintiff and approved Diamondback’s selection of counsel. Pursuant to a scheduling order, the lead plaintiff filed a Consolidated Complaint on November 2, 2007. The Consolidated Complaint names TOUSA, all of TOUSA’s directors, David Keller, Randy Kotler, Beatriz Koltis, Lonnie Fedrick, Technical Olympic, S.A., UBS Securities, LLC, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. and JMP Securities, LLC as defendants. The alleged class period is August 1, 2005 to March 19, 2007. The Consolidated Complaint alleges that TOUSA’s public filings and other public statements that described the financing for the Transeastern Joint Venture as non-recourse to TOUSA were false and misleading. The Consolidated Complaint also alleges that certain public filings and statements were misleading or suffered from material omissions in failing to disclose fully or describe the Completion and Carve-Out Guaranties that TOUSA executed in support of the Transeastern Joint Venture financing. The Consolidated Complaint asserts claims under Section 11 of the Securities Act against all defendants other than Ms. Koltis for strict liability and negligence regarding the registration statements and prospectus associated with the September 2005 offering of 4 million shares of stock. Plaintiffs contend that the registration 24 Table of Contents statements and prospectus contained material misrepresentations and suffered from material omissions in the description of the Transeastern Joint Venture financing and TOUSA’s related obligations. The Consolidated Complaint asserts related claims against Technical Olympic, S.A. and Messrs. Konstantinos Stengos, Antonio B. Mon, David Keller and Tommy L. McAden as controlling persons responsible for the statements in the registration statements and prospectus. The Consolidated Complaint also alleges claims under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act for fraud with respect to various public statements about the non-recourse nature of the Transeastern debt and alleged omissions in disclosing or describing the Guaranties. These claims are alleged against TOUSA, Messrs. Mon, McAden, Keller and Kotler and Ms. Koltis. Finally, the Consolidated Complaint asserts related claims against Messrs. Mon, Keller, Kotler and McAden as controlling persons responsible for the various alleged false disclosures. Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages, plus fees and costs, on behalf of themselves and the putative class of purchasers of TOUSA common stock and purchasers and sellers of options on TOUSA common stock. On January 30, 2008, TOUSA filed a Motion to Dismiss Plaintiffs’ Consolidated Complaint. TOUSA moved to dismiss plaintiffs’ claims on the grounds that plaintiffs: a) could not establish materially false or misleading statements or omissions; b) could not establish loss causation; c) failed to plead with particularity facts giving rise to a strong inference of scienter; and d) lacked standing to pursue a Section 11 claim. Many of the other defendants also filed motions to dismiss and/or signed on to TOUSA’s Motion to Dismiss. On February 4, 2008, TOUSA filed a Notice of Suggestion of Bankruptcy notifying the Court that TOUSA filed for bankruptcy on January 29, 2008. On February 5, 2008, the Court entered an order staying the action as to TOUSA pursuant to Section 362 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. The action continues with respect to defendants other than TOUSA. On April 30, 2008, lead plaintiff Diamondback Capital Management moved to withdraw as lead plaintiff. On May 22, 2008, the Court entered an order: granting Diamondback Capital Management’s motion to withdraw as lead plaintiff; establishing a procedure pursuant to which a new lead plaintiff would be appointed; extending the time for plaintiffs to respond to the motions to dismiss until a new lead plaintiff is selected; and acknowledging that the Court may need to set a time for the filing of an amended complaint, if requested by the new lead plaintiff. On June 6, 2008, two prospective lead plaintiffs filed motions to be appointed the new lead plaintiff. On July 15, 2008, the Court entered an Order appointing the Bricklayers & Trowel Trades International Pension Fund as the new lead plaintiff. The Court further ordered that, within 15 days of the entry of the Order, the new plaintiff must either respond to the previously filed Motions to Dismiss, or file a notice of intent to file an amended complaint. On July 30, 2008, the new plaintiff filed a notice of intent to file an amended complaint. On July 31, 2008, following the notice of intent to file an amended complaint, the Court denied as moot, without prejudice, the defendants’ previously filed motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint. Under the current schedule set by the Court, the plaintiff must file its amended complaint by August 29, 2008. You may find it difficult to sell our common stock and debt securities. Effective November 19, 2007, NYSE Regulation, Inc. suspended our common stock and debt securities from trading on the NYSE. We appealed the suspension. Following our suspension from the NYSE, we began trading on the Pink Sheet Electronic Quotation Service. On February 15, 2008, the NYSE denied our appeal and affirmed the decision to suspend trading in our common stock and debt securities on the NYSE and commenced delisting procedures. On March 3, 2008, the NYSE filed Forms 25, Notification of Removal of Listing and/or Registration under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, with the SEC with respect to our listed securities. Our securities will be delisted 90 days thereafter. The trading of our common stock over the counter negatively impacts the trading price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, the trading of our common stock over the counter materially adversely affects our access to the capital markets and our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us or at all. Securities that trade on the Pink Sheets are not eligible for margin loans and make our common stock subject to the provisions of Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, commonly referred to as the “penny stock rule.” The Securities and 25 Table of Contents Exchange Commission generally defines “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock is deemed to be a penny stock, trading in the shares will be subject to additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. “Accredited investors” are persons with assets in excess of $1.0 million, or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouse. For transactions covered by these rules, broker-dealers must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such security and must have the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the first transaction, of a risk disclosure document, prepared by the SEC, relating to the penny stock market. A broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stocks held in an account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Consequently, these rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to trade and/or maintain a market in our common stock and may affect the ability of our shareholders to sell their shares. There are also other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, existing and potential homebuyers and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest in our company. Risks Related to Our Business The homebuilding industry is experiencing a severe downturn that may continue for an indefinite period which may further adversely affect our business and results of operations compared to prior periods. Since 2006, the homebuilding industry as a whole has experienced a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes, an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale and a more restrictive mortgage lending environment. Although we operate in a number of markets, approximately 53% of our operations are concentrated in Florida and the West, based on 2007 deliveries, which suffered a particularly severe downturn in home buying activity. The rapid increase in new and existing home prices in these markets over the past several years reduced housing affordability and tempered buyer demand. In particular, investors and speculators reduced their purchasing activity and instead stepped up their efforts to sell the residential property they had earlier acquired. These trends, which were more pronounced in markets that had experienced the greatest levels of price appreciation, resulted in overall fewer home sales, greater cancellations of home purchase agreements by buyers, higher inventories of unsold homes and the increased use by homebuilders, speculators, investors and others of discounts, incentives, price concessions, broker commissions and advertising to close home sales compared to the past several years. Reflecting these trends, we, like many other homebuilders, experienced the impact of severe liquidity challenges in the credit and mortgage markets, diminished consumer confidence, increased home inventories and foreclosures and downward pressure on home prices. Potential buyers have exhibited both a reduction in confidence as to the economy in general and a willingness to delay purchase decisions based on a perception that prices will continue to decline. Prospective homebuyers continue to be concerned about interest rates and the inability to sell their current homes or to obtain appraisals at sufficient amounts to secure mortgage financing as a result of the recent disruption in the mortgage markets and the tightening of credit standards. The homebuilding market may not improve in the near future, and is forecast to weaken further. Continued weakness in the homebuilding market would have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations as compared to those of earlier periods. Our strategies in responding to the adverse conditions in the homebuilding industry have had limited success and the continued implementation of these and other strategies may not be successful. In 2007 we have experienced significantly reduced gross profit levels and have incurred significant asset impairment charges. These contributed to the net loss we recognized in 2007. Also, in 2007, notwithstanding our sales strategies, we continued to experience an elevated rate of sales contract cancellations. We believe that the elevated cancellation rate largely reflects a decrease in homebuyer confidence, with continued price declines and increases in the level of sales incentives for both new and existing homes prompting homebuyers to forgo or delay home purchases. A more restrictive mortgage lending environment and the inability of some 26 Table of Contents buyers to sell their existing homes have also led to cancellations. Many of the factors that affect new orders and cancellation rates are beyond our control. These factors include the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. Continued reduced sales levels and the increased level of cancellations would continue to have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations as compared to those of earlier periods. Continued high cancellation rates may negatively impact our business. Our backlog reflects the number and value of sold but undelivered homes. Generally we have the right to compel the customer to complete the purchase, however our only effective remedy may be the retention of the deposit. In some cases a customer may cancel the contract and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit. If the current industry downturn continues, or if mortgage financing becomes less available, more homebuyers may cancel their contracts with us. Significant cancellations have had, and could have in the future, a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Contracts with a third-party that marketed homes in the United Kingdom included in backlog at December 31, 2007 were cancelled in 2008. These contracts were for 511 homes, representing $115.6 million in revenue. Our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected by natural disasters or weather conditions. Homebuilders are particularly subject to natural disasters and severe weather conditions as they can delay our ability to timely complete or deliver homes, damage partially complete or other unsold homes that are in our inventory, negatively impact the demand for homes, and/or negatively affect the price and availability of qualified labor and materials. Our operations are located in many areas that are especially subject to natural disasters; for example, we have significant operations in Florida and Texas which is especially at risk of hurricanes. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, floods, tornadoes or other natural disasters or similar weather events occur, our business may be adversely affected. To the extent our insurance is not adequate to cover business interruption or losses resulting from these events, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. We are subject to substantial risks with respect to the land and home inventories we maintain, and fluctuations in market conditions may affect our ability to sell our land and home inventories at expected prices, if at all, which would reduce our profit margins. As a homebuilder, we must constantly locate and acquire new tracts of land for development and developed homesites to support our homebuilding operations. There is a lag between the time we acquire land for development or developed homesites and the time that we can bring the communities to market and sell homes. Lag time varies on a project-by-project basis; however, historically, we have experienced a lag time of up to three years. As a result, we face the risk that demand for housing may decline or costs of labor or materials may increase during this period and that we will not be able to dispose of developed properties or undeveloped land or homesites acquired for development at expected prices or profit margins or within anticipated time frames or at all. The market value of home inventories, undeveloped land and developed homesites can fluctuate significantly because of changing market conditions. In addition, inventory carrying costs (including interest on funds used to acquire land or build homes) can be significant and can adversely affect our performance. The downturn in the housing market has caused the fair market value of certain of our inventory to fall, in some cases well below the purchase price. As a result, we were required to take substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise options, even though that required us to forfeit deposits, write-off pre-acquisition land development costs and incur additional liabilities related to these contracts. Additionally, as a result of these market conditions, we recorded significant valuation adjustments relating to our investments in unconsolidated entities. If the current downturn in the housing market continues, we may need to take additional charges against our earnings for abandonments or inventory impairments, or both. Although impairments are non-cash charges, abandonments give the owner of the land the right to draw on letters of credit or cash deposits that may have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Additionally, any non-cash charges would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Reduced home sales may impair our ability to recoup development costs or force us to absorb additional costs. We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. Depending on the stage of development, these include costs of developing land and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. Reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these costs. Also, we frequently acquire options to purchase land and make deposits that will be forfeited if we do not exercise the options within specified periods. Because of current market conditions, we have had to terminate some of these options, resulting in the forfeiture of deposits and unrecoverable development costs. Any such charges would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including our liquidity as a result of a lower borrowing base which reduces availability under our cash collateral order. Market conditions in the mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries deteriorated significantly in 2007, adversely impacting us by increasing the supply of inventory housing, negatively impacting pricing conditions, as well as decreasing the demand for our homes, which adversely affected our revenues and profitability. Recent changes in mortgage lending requirements or further reduced mortgage liquidity could adversely affect the availability of credit for some purchasers of our homes and thereby reduce our sales. Approximately 90% of our customers finance their purchases through mortgage financing obtained from us or other sources. Increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage funds provided or sponsored by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the Federal Housing Administration, or the Veteran’s Administration could cause a decline in the market for new homes as potential homebuyers may not be able to obtain affordable financing. In particular, because the availability of mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing many of our homes, any limitations or restrictions on the availability of those types of financing could reduce our home sales and the lending volume at our mortgage subsidiary. In 2007, approximately 3% to 5% of the homebuyers that utilized our mortgage subsidiary obtained sub-prime loans. We define a sub-prime loan as one where the buyer’s FICO score is below 620 and is not an FHA or VA loan. At December 31, 2007, approximately 4% to 6% of our backlog that utilized our mortgage subsidiary included homebuyers seeking sub-prime financing. During 2007, the mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries experienced significant instability due to, among other things, defaults on subprime loans and a resulting decline in the market value of such loans. In light of these developments, lenders, investors, regulators and other third parties questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years. This has led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, tightened credit requirements, reduced liquidity, increased credit risk premiums and regulatory actions. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime and other nonconforming loans has caused most lenders to eliminate subprime mortgages and most other loan products that do not conform to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the Federal Housing Administration, or the Veteran’s Administration standards. In general, these developments have resulted in a reduction in demand for the homes we sell and have delayed any general improvement in the housing market. Furthermore, they have resulted in a reduction in demand for the mortgage loans that we originate. The Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 was enacted into law on July 30, 2008. One provision of the Act eliminates down payment assistance programs for FHA loans approved after September 30, 2008. Down payment assistance programs were utilized for approximately 15% of our closings over the past year, but for over 50% of our Trophy Homes division closings. We are dependent on the continued availability and satisfactory performance of our subcontractors, which, if unavailable, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Subcontractors perform substantially all of our construction work. As a consequence, we depend on the continued availability of and satisfactory performance by these subcontractors for the construction of our 28 Table of Contents homes. There may not be sufficient availability of and satisfactory performance by these unaffiliated third-party subcontractors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Supply risks and shortages relating to labor and materials can harm our business by delaying construction and increasing costs. The homebuilding industry from time to time has experienced significant difficulties with respect to: • shortages of qualified trades people and other labor; • inadequately capitalized local subcontractors; • shortages of materials; and • volatile increases in the cost of certain materials, including lumber, framing, roofing and cement, which are significant components of home construction costs, associated with the rapid rise in the cost of oil, energy, and other factors. These difficulties can, and often do, cause unexpected short-term increases in construction costs and cause construction delays. In addition, to the extent our subcontractors incur increased costs associated with increases in insurance premiums and compliance with state and local regulations, these costs are passed on to us as homebuilders. We are generally unable to pass on any unexpected increases in construction costs to those customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those contracts generally fix the price of the house at the time the contract is signed, which may be up to two years in advance of the delivery of the home. We have historically been able to offset sustained increases in the costs of materials with increases in the prices of our homes and through operating efficiencies. However, in the future, pricing competition, oversupply of new and existing homes and tightening mortgage qualifications, among other factors may restrict our ability to pass on any additional costs, and negatively impact our profit margins. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry could increase our costs, reduce our revenues and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local builders. Some of these builders have greater financial resources, more experience, more established market positions and better opportunities for land and homesite acquisitions than we do and have lower costs of capital, labor and material than us. Builders of new homes compete for homebuyers, as well as for desirable properties, raw materials and skilled subcontractors. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry could, among other things: • increase our costs, including selling and marketing expenses, and reduce our revenues and/or profit margins; • make it difficult for us to acquire suitable land or homesites at acceptable prices; • require us to increase selling commissions and other incentives; • result in delays in construction if we experience a delay in procuring materials or hiring laborers; and • result in lower sales volumes. We also compete with resales of existing homes, available rental housing and, to a lesser extent, condominium resales. An oversupply of attractively priced resale or rental homes in the markets in which we operate could adversely affect our absorption rates and profitability. Foreclosures in the various markets as well as within our own communities creating enormous downward pressure on prices and consumer confidence. Our financial services operations are also subject to competition from third party providers, many of which are substantially larger, may have a lower cost structure and may focus exclusively on providing such services. 29 Table of Contents Future limitations on our ability to obtain bonds may adversely affect our homebuilding operations. We are required under certain contracts to provide performance bonds. The market for performance bonds was severely impacted by certain corporate failures in recent years and continues to be impacted by general economic conditions. Consequently, less overall bonding capacity is available in the market than in the past, and surety bonds have become more expensive and restrictive. Additionally, in certain cases where we have stopped activities in a community, we may have failed to complete the infrastructure for which the performance bond was posted. In such cases, sureties for our performance bonds are required to fulfill our obligations and in the future, may be unwilling to issue performance bonds or may require additional collateral to issue or renew performance bonds. An inability to obtain new or renew existing performance bonds in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all could result in limitations on our ability to enter into new contracts or fulfill existing contracts which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to product liability and warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business that could adversely affect our results of operations. As a homebuilder, we are subject in the ordinary course of our business to liability and home warranty claims. We provide our homebuyers with a limited warranty that provides a one-year or two-year limited warranty covering workmanship and materials and a five to ten-year limited warranty covering major structural defects. Claims arising under these warranties and general liability claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. Although we maintain liability insurance, the coverage offered by, and availability of, liability insurance for construction defects is currently limited and, where coverage is available, it may be costly. We currently have liability insurance coverage which covers repair costs associated with warranty claims for structure and design defects related to homes sold by us during the policy period, subject to a significant self-insured retention per occurrence. However, our insurance coverage may contain limitations with respect to coverage; this insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all liability and warranty claims for which we may be liable. In addition, coverage may be further restricted and become more costly. Although we generally seek to require our subcontractors and design professionals to indemnify us for liabilities arising from their work, we may be unable to enforce any such contractual indemnities. Uninsured and unindemnified liability and warranty claims, as well as the cost of insurance coverage, could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is subject to governmental regulations that may delay, increase the cost of, prohibit or severely restrict our development and homebuilding projects. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal, and use of open spaces. In addition, we and our subcontractors are subject to laws and regulations relating to workers health and safety. We also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. In some of the markets in which we operate, we are required to pay environmental impact fees, use energy saving construction materials and give commitments to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. We must also obtain permits and approvals from local authorities to complete residential development or home construction. The laws and regulations under which we and our subcontractors operate, and our and their obligations to comply with them, may result in delays in construction and development, cause us to incur substantial compliance and other increased costs, and prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. Several states, cities and counties in which we operate have approved, and others in which we operate may approve, various “slow growth” or “no growth” initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those localities. Approval of slow or no growth measures would reduce our ability to build and sell homes in the affected markets and create additional costs and administration requirements, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our future revenues. 30 Table of Contents Our financial services operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements can lead to administrative enforcement actions, the suspension or loss of required licenses, and claims for monetary damages. Our title insurance agency subsidiaries must comply with applicable insurance laws and regulations. Our mortgage financing subsidiary must comply with applicable real estate lending laws and regulations. In addition, to make it possible for purchasers of some of our homes to obtain FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed mortgages, we must construct those homes in compliance with regulations promulgated by those agencies. The mortgage financing and title insurance subsidiaries are licensed in the states in which they do business and must comply with laws and regulations in those states regarding mortgage financing, homeowners’ insurance and title insurance agencies. These laws and regulations include provisions regarding capitalization, operating procedures, investments, forms of policies and premiums. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including in the material set forth in the sections entitled “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” These statements concern expectations, beliefs, projections, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts, and typically include the words “anticipate”, “believe”, “expect”, “estimate”, “project” and “future.” Specifically, this annual report contains forward-looking statements including with respect to: • our expectations regarding population growth and median income growth trends and their impact on future housing demand in our markets; • our expectation regarding the impact of geographic and customer diversification; • our expectations regarding successful implementation of our asset management strategy and its impact on our business; • our expectations regarding future land sales; • our belief regarding growth opportunities within our financial services business; • our estimate that we have adequate financial resources to meet our current and anticipated working capital, including our debt service payments, and land acquisition and development needs; • the impact of inflation on our future results of operations; • our expectations regarding our ability to pass through to our customers any increases in our costs; • our expectations regarding our option contracts, investments in land development joint ventures; • our expectations regarding the housing market in 2008 and beyond; • our expectations regarding our use of cash in operations; and • our expectations of receiving federal and state income tax refunds. We do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect our current views about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. As a result, actual results may differ significantly from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. The most important factors that could prevent us from achieving our goals, and cause the assumptions underlying forward-looking statements and the actual results to differ materially from 31 Table of Contents those expressed in or implied by those forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: • the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 cases, including our ability to successfully reorganize and emerge from Chapter 11; • a long period of operating under Chapter 11 may harm our business; • we may not be able to obtain confirmation of our Chapter 11 plan; • operating under the Bankruptcy Code may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies; • our debt instruments include restrictive and financial covenants that limit our operating flexibility; • our ability to attract, motivate and retain key and essential personnel is impacted by the Bankruptcy Code which limits our ability to implement a retention program or take other measures intended to motivate employees to remain with us; • we require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us; • our ability to confirm or consummate a plan of reorganization; • financial results that may be volatile and may reflect historical trends; • our belief that our ability to continue as a going concern will depend upon our ability to restructure our capital structure; • our belief that failure to restructure our capital structure would result in depleting our available funds and not being able to pay our obligations when they become due; • our ability to borrow or otherwise finance our business in the future; • our ability to identify and acquire, at anticipated prices, additional homebuilding opportunities and/or to effect our growth strategies in our homebuilding operations and financial services business; • our relationship with Technical Olympic, S.A. and its control over our business activities; • economic or other business conditions that affect the desire or ability of our customers to purchase new homes in markets in which we conduct our business, such as increases in interest rates, inflation, or unemployment rates or declines in median income growth, consumer confidence or the demand for, or the price of, housing; • events which would impede our ability to open new communities and/or deliver homes within anticipated time frames and/or within anticipated budgets; • our ability to enter successfully into, utilize, and recognize the anticipated benefits of, joint ventures and option contracts; • a further decline in the value of our land and home inventories; • an increase in the cost of, or shortages in the availability of, qualified labor and materials; • our ability to dispose successfully of developed properties or undeveloped land or homesites at expected prices and within anticipated time frames; • our ability to compete in our existing and future markets; • the impact of hurricanes, tornadoes or other natural disasters or weather conditions on our business, including the potential for shortages and increased costs of materials and qualified labor and the potential for delays in construction and obtaining government approvals; • an increase or change in government regulations, or in the interpretation and/or enforcement of existing government regulations; 32 Table of Contents • the impact of any or all of the above risks on the operations or financial results of our unconsolidated joint ventures; and • a change in ownership of our stock, as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, which would limit our ability to receive anticipated income tax refunds. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments By letter dated May 19, 2006, the SEC provided us with comments relating to various registration statements filed by us in April 2006 and the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 filed by us on March 10, 2006. We responded to the letter on July 21, 2006 and filed amendments to the registration statements. Through a series of letters with the SEC, responses were provided to additional comments on the filings noted above, the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 30, 2006 and the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. We have not yet responded to comments from the SEC in a letter dated May 11, 2007. These comments relate principally to disclosures related to the operating results of the Transeastern JV. We believe that the disclosures were appropriate. In the Matter of TOUSA, Inc. SEC Inquiry, File No. FL-3310. In June 2007, the Company was contacted by the Miami Regional Office of the SEC requesting the voluntary provision of documents, and other information from the Company, relating primarily to corporate and financial information and communications for the Transeastern JV to determine if there have been any violations of federal securities laws. The SEC has advised the Company that this inquiry should not be construed as an indication that any violations of law have occurred, nor should it be considered a reflection upon any person, entity, or security. The Company is cooperating with the inquiry. 