Item 1A. Risk factors In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.General economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The recent global financial crisis has impacted our business and our customers' businesses in the United States and globally. During 2009, the United States experienced its lowest light vehicle production rate in over 25 years, and commercial vehicle production declined by 38%. Since 2009, U.S. vehicle production has improved, but is still less than the average for the period during 2000 to 2007. The light and commercial vehicle industries in Europe and Asia faced similar trends. Continued weakness or deteriorating conditions in the U.S. or global economy that result in reduction of vehicle production and sales by our customers may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in a down-cycle economic environment, we may experience increased competitive pricing pressure and customer turnover. Deteriorating economic conditions impact driving habits of both consumers and commercial operators, leading to a reduction in miles driven. If total miles driven decreases, demand for our aftermarket products could decline due to a reduction in the need for replacement parts. Difficult economic conditions may cause changes to the business models, products, financial condition, consumer financing and rebate programs of the OEMs. This could reduce the number of vehicles produced and purchased, which would, in turn, reduce the demand for both our OEM and aftermarket products. Our contracts do not require our customers to purchase any minimum volume of our products. 13Table of ContentsRecent economic conditions have generally increased the availability of capital and decreased the cost of financing. If we, our customers or our suppliers experience a material tightening in the availability of credit, it could adversely affect us. Among other possible effects, we may have to pay suppliers in advance or on short credit terms, which would harm our liquidity or lead to production interruptions. Risks specific to the light and commercial vehicle industries affect our business. Our operations, and, in particular, our OE business, are inherently cyclical and depend on many industry-specific factors such as: •credit availability and interest rates; •fuel prices and availability; •consumer confidence, spending and preference; •costs related to environmental hazards; •governmental incentives; and •political volatility. Our business may also be adversely affected by regulatory requirements, trade agreements, our customers' labor relations issues, reduced demand for our customers' product programs that we currently support, the receipt of sales orders for new or redesigned products that replace our current product programs and other factors. The current political environment has led, and may lead in the future, to further federal, state and local government budget cuts. We have in the past received governmental grants that benefit our industry. A significant adverse change in any of these factors may reduce automotive production and sales by our customers, which would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Inventory levels and our OE customers' production levels also affect our OE sales. We cannot predict when our customers either increase or reduce inventory levels. This may result in variability in our sales and financial condition. Uncertainty regarding inventory levels may be exacerbated by our customers or governments initiating or terminating consumer financing programs. Longer useful product life of parts may reduce aftermarket demand for some of our products. In 2011 and 2012, roughly half of our net sales were to aftermarket customers. The average useful life of automotive parts has been steadily increasing in recent years due to improved quality and innovations in products and technologies. The longer product lives allow vehicle owners to replace parts of their vehicles less often. Additional increases in the average useful life of automotive parts are likely to reduce the demand for our aftermarket products, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, litigation and other disputes and claims. We are exposed to warranty and product liability claims if our products fail to perform as expected. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, required to participate in a recall of those products. If public safety concerns are raised, we may have to participate in a recall even if our products are ultimately found not to be defective. Vehicle manufacturers have experienced increasing recall campaigns in recent years. Our customers and other OEMs are increasingly looking to us and other suppliers for contribution when faced with recalls and product liability claims. If our customers demand higher warranty-related cost recoveries, or if our products fail to perform as expected, our business, financial condition and results of operations could materially suffer. We may also be exposed to product liability claims, warranty claims and damage to our reputation if our products (including the parts of our products produced by third-party suppliers) actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury or property damage. Recalls may also cause us to lose additional business from our customers. Material product defect issues may subject us to recalls of those products and restrictions on bidding on new customer programs. We have in the past incurred, and could in the future incur, material warranty or product liability losses and costs to defend these claims. We are also involved in various legal proceedings incidental to our business. See “Business-Legal proceedings.” There can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any of these legal proceedings, and future legal proceedings may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the cost and availability of raw materials and supplied components could harm our financial performance. We purchase raw materials and component parts from outside sources. The availability and prices of raw materials and component parts may change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, increased demand from the 14Table of Contentsautomotive sector and the broader economy, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels. In recent years, market conditions have caused significant increases in the price of some raw materials and component parts and, in some cases, reductions in short-term availability. We are especially susceptible to changes in the price and availability of copper, aluminum, steel and certain rare earth magnets. The price of these materials has fluctuated significantly in recent years. An increase in the price of these magnets, or a reduction in their supply, could harm our business. Raw material price inflation and availability have placed significant operational and financial burdens on automotive suppliers at all levels, and are expected to continue for the foreseeable future. Our need to maintain a continuing supply of raw materials and components makes it difficult to resist price increases and surcharges imposed by our suppliers. Further, it is difficult to pass cost increases through to our customers, and, if passed through, recovery is typically delayed. Because the recognition of the cost/benefit and the price recovery/reduction do not occur in the same period, the impact of a change in commodity cost is not necessarily offset by the change in sales price in the same period. Accordingly, a change in the supply of, or price for, raw materials and components could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in our or our customers' supply chain may harm our business. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain key components and materials. In order to reduce costs, our industry has been rationalizing and consolidating its supply base. Suppliers may delay deliveries to us due to failures caused by production issues, and they may also deliver non-conforming products. Recently, several suppliers have ceased operations. If one of our suppliers experiences a supply shortage or disruption, we may be unable to procure the components from another source to produce the affected products. The lack of a subcomponent necessary to manufacture one of our products could force us to cease production. Shortages and disruptions could be caused by many problems, such as closures of one of our suppliers' plants or critical manufacturing lines due to strikes, mechanical breakdowns, electrical outages, fires, explosions or political upheaval, or logistical complications due to weather, natural disasters, mechanical failures or delayed customs processing. Also, we and our suppliers deliver products on a just-in-time basis, which is designed to maintain low inventory levels but increases the risk of supply disruptions. Products delivered by our suppliers may fail to meet quality standards. Potential quality issues could force us to halt deliveries while we revalidate the affected products. When deliveries are not timely, we have to absorb the cost of identifying and solving the problem, as well as expeditiously producing replacement components or products. We may also incur costs associated with “catching up,” such as overtime and premium freight. Our customers may halt or delay their production for the same reason if one of their suppliers fails to deliver necessary components. This may cause our customers to suspend their orders or instruct us to suspend delivery of our products, which may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In turn, if we cause a customer to halt production, the customer may seek to recoup its losses and expenses from us, which could be significant or include consequential losses. Shortages of and volatility in the price of oil may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The price and availability of oil impacts our business in numerous ways. Oil prices are very volatile. In general an increase in oil prices, or a shortage of oil, may reduce demand for vehicles or shift demand to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles, which provide lower profit margins. Also, an increase in oil prices may reduce the average number of miles driven. Lower vehicle demand or average number of miles driven would, in turn, reduce the demand for both our OE and aftermarket products. An increase in the price of oil could also increase the cost of the plastic components we use in our products. Conversely, lower fuel prices may negatively impact demand for hybrid-powered vehicles, which may also adversely affect our business. Accordingly, shortages and volatility in the price of oil may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss or the deteriorating financial condition of a major customer could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The majority of our sales are to automotive and heavy-duty OEMs, OEM dealer networks, automotive parts retail chains and warehouse distributors. We depend on a small number of customers with strong purchasing power. Our five largest customers represented 50% and 49% of our net sales for 2012 and 2011, respectively. GM, our largest customer, accounted for 21% and 21% of our net sales for 2012 and 2011, respectively. One or more of our top customers may cease to require all or any portion of the products or services we currently provide or may develop alternative sources, including their own in-house operations, for those products or services. 15Table of ContentsCustomers may restructure, which could include significant capacity reductions or reorganization under bankruptcy laws. The loss of any of our major customers, reduction in their demand for our products or substantial restructuring activities by our major customers could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. OE and OES customers accounted for 62% and 61% of our net sales for 2012 and 2011, respectively. We face substantial competition. Our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. The automotive industry is highly competitive. We and most of our competitors are seeking to expand market share with new and existing customers. Our customers award business based on, among other things, price, quality, service, delivery, manufacturing and distribution capability, design and technology. Our competitors' efforts to grow market share could exert downward pressure on our product pricing and margins. Overseas manufacturers, particularly those located in China, are increasing their operations and could become a significant competitive force in the future. If we are unable to differentiate our products or maintain low-cost manufacturing, we may lose market share or be forced to reduce prices, which would lower our margins. Our business may also suffer if we fail to meet customer requirements. Some of our competitors may have advantages over us, which could affect our ability to compete effectively. For example, some of our competitors: •are divisions or subsidiaries of companies that are larger and have substantially greater financial resources than we do; •are affiliated with OEMs or have a “preferred status” as a result of special relationships with certain customers; •have economic advantages as compared to our business, such as patents and existing underutilized capacity; and •are domiciled in areas that we are targeting for growth. OEMs and suppliers are developing strategies to reduce costs and gain a competitive advantage. These strategies include supply base consolidation and global sourcing. The consolidation trend among automotive parts suppliers is resulting in fewer, larger suppliers who benefit from purchasing and distribution economies of scale. If we cannot achieve cost savings and operational improvements sufficient to allow us to compete favorably in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer due to a reduction of, or inability to increase, sales sufficient to offset other price increases. Our competitors may foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, develop products that are superior to our products, have the ability to produce similar products at a lower cost than we can or adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving regulatory, industry or customer requirements. Work stoppages or other labor issues at our facilities or the facilities of our customers or suppliers could adversely affect our operations. Some of our employees, a substantial number of the employees of our largest customers, the employees of our suppliers and the employees of other suppliers to the automotive industry are members of industrial trade unions and are employed under the terms of collective bargaining agreements. To our knowledge, 3,120 of our employees globally are represented by trade unions. Difficult conditions in the light and commercial vehicle industries and actions taken by us, our customers, our suppliers and other suppliers to address negative industry conditions may have the side effect of exacerbating labor relations problems, which could increase the possibility of work stoppages. We may not be able to negotiate acceptable contracts with unions, and our failure to do so may result in work stoppages. We have agreements with a number of unions in different countries. These agreements expire or are subject to renewal at various times. One or more of these unions could elect not to renew its contract with us. Also, work stoppages at our customers, our suppliers or other suppliers to the automotive industry could cause us to shut down our production facilities or prevent us from meeting our delivery obligations to our customers. The industry's reliance on just-in-time delivery of components could also worsen the effects of any work stoppage. A work stoppage at one or more of our facilities, or the facilities of suppliers and our customers, could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success partly depends on our development of improved technology-based products and our ability to adapt to changing technology. Some of our products are subject to changing technology or may become less desirable or be rendered obsolete by changes in legislative, regulatory or industry requirements. Our continued success depends on our ability to 16Table of Contentsanticipate and adapt to these changes. We may be unable to achieve and maintain the technological advances, machinery and knowledge that may be necessary for us to remain competitive. We may need to incur capital expenditures and invest in research and development and manufacturing in amounts exceeding our current expectations. We may decide to develop specific technologies and capabilities in anticipation of customers' demands for new innovations and technologies. If this demand does not materialize, then we may be unable to recover the costs incurred to develop those particular technologies and capabilities. If we are unable to recover these costs, or if any development programs do not progress as expected, our business could materially suffer. To compete, we must be able to launch new products to meet our customers' demand in a timely manner. However, we may be unable to install and certify the equipment needed to manufacture products for new programs in time for the start of production. Transitioning our manufacturing facilities and resources to full production under new product programs may impact production rates and other operational efficiency measures at our facilities. Our customers may not launch new product programs on schedule. Our failure to successfully launch new products, a delay by our customers in introducing our new products or a failure by our customers to successfully launch new programs, could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with new product introductions and applications, including lack of market acceptance of our customers' vehicles or of our products, delays in product development and failure of products to operate properly. Further, we may be unable to adequately protect our technological developments, which could prevent us from maintaining a sustainable competitive advantage. A failure to attract and retain executive officers and key personnel could harm our ability to operate effectively. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies effectively partly depends on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel in key areas, including engineering, sales and marketing, operations, information technology and finance. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or our failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to take advantage of, or successfully complete, potential acquisitions, business combinations and joint ventures. We may pursue acquisitions, business combinations or joint ventures that we believe present opportunities to enhance our market position, extend our technological and manufacturing capabilities or realize significant synergies, operating expense reductions or overhead cost savings. This strategy will partly depend on whether suitable acquisition targets or joint ventures are available on acceptable terms and our ability to finance the purchase price of acquisitions or the investment in joint ventures. We may also be unable to take advantage of potential acquisitions, business combinations or joint ventures because of regulatory or other concerns. For example, the agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict our ability to engage in certain mergers or similar transactions. Acquisitions, business combinations and joint ventures may expose us to additional risks. Any acquisition, business combination or joint venture that we engage in could present a variety of risks. These risks include the following: •the incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities and an increase in interest expense and amortization expenses related to intangible assets with definite lives; •our failure to discover liabilities of the acquired company for which we may be responsible as a successor owner or operator, despite any investigation we make before the acquisition; •the diversion of management's attention from our core operations as they attend to any business integration issues that may arise; •the loss of key personnel of the acquired company or joint venture counterparty; •our becoming subject to material liabilities as a result of failure to negotiate adequate indemnification rights; •difficulties in combining the standards, processes, procedures and controls of the new business with those of our existing operations; •difficulties in coordinating new product and process development; 17Table of Contents•difficulties in integrating product technologies; and •increases in the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Our failure to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses could cause us to incur unanticipated expenses and losses, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are party to a joint venture in China with Hubei Shendian Electric and may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. Our interests may not always be aligned with the interests of our joint venture partners. For example, our partners may negotiate on behalf of customers of the joint venture for sales terms that are not in the best interest of the joint venture. Our joint venture partner owns a business that could compete with the joint venture and our businesses. Accordingly, there may be a misalignment of incentives between us and our joint venture partners that could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our lean manufacturing and other cost saving plans may not be effective. Our operations strategy includes goals such as improving inventory management, customer delivery, plant and distribution facility consolidation and the integration of back-office functions across our businesses. If we are unable to realize anticipated benefits from these measures, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Moreover, the implementation of cost-saving plans and facilities integration may disrupt our operations and financial performance. Our global operations subject us to risks and uncertainties. We have business and technical offices and manufacturing facilities in many countries, including Brazil, China, Hungary, Mexico, South Korea and Tunisia, which may have less developed political and economic environments than the United States. International operations are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including the following: •general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in those countries; •agreements may be difficult to enforce and receivables may be difficult to collect through a foreign country's legal system; •foreign customers may have longer payment cycles; •foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose burdensome tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment (such as repatriation restrictions or requirements, quotas, exchange controls and antidumping duties); •intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce in foreign countries; •unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur; •compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be difficult; •overlap of different tax structures may subject us to additional taxes; •changes in currency exchange rates; •export and import restrictions, including tariffs and embargoes; •shutdowns or delays at international borders; •more expansive rights of foreign labor unions; •nationalization, expropriation and other governmental action; •political and civil instability; •domestic or international terrorist events, wars and other hostilities; •laws governing international relations (including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act); and •global operations may strain our internal control over financial reporting or cause us to expend additional resources to keep those controls effective. 18Table of ContentsIf certain of the risks described were to occur, we may decide to shift some of our operations from one jurisdiction to another, which could result in added costs. If we acquire new businesses, we may be unable to effectively and quickly implement pre-existing controls and procedures intended to mitigate these uncertainties and risks. The longer supply chains resulting from global operations may also increase our working capital requirements. These uncertainties could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will partly depend on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. The recent European debt crisis could adversely affect our business. The recent European debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts have contributed to instability in credit markets and may cause the value of the Euro to further deteriorate. Although Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain have been affected the most severely by the debt crisis, the general financial instability in stressed European countries could create general instability and uncertainty in the entire European Union and globally. Approximately $103.3 million of our net sales in 2012 were to European customers. If the European economy worsens, it could adversely affect our European sales. The diminished liquidity and credit availability in Europe may adversely affect the ability of our customers in the region to pay for our products, which may lead to an increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts or write-offs of accounts receivable. International trade policies may impact demand for our products and our competitive position.Government policies on international trade and investment such as import quotas, capital controls or tariffs, whether adopted by individual governments or addressed by regional trade blocs, can affect the demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products or prevent us from being able to sell products in certain countries. The implementation of more restrictive trade policies, such as more detailed inspections, higher tariffs or new barriers to entry, in countries in which we sell large quantities of products and services could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, a government's adoption of “buy national” policies or retaliation by another government against such policies could have a negative impact on our results of operations.We are exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of our global presence, a significant portion of our net sales and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We are accordingly subject to foreign currency risks and foreign exchange exposure. These risks and exposures include: •transaction exposure, which arises when the cost of a product originates in one currency and the product is sold in another currency; •translation exposure on our income statement, which arises when the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars; and •translation exposure on our balance sheet, which arises when the balance sheets of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars. We source many of our parts, components and finished products from Mexico, Europe, North Africa and Asia. The cost of these products could fluctuate with changes in currency exchange rates. Changes in currency exchange rates could also affect product demand and require us to reduce our prices to remain competitive. During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately 34% and 37%, respectively, of our net sales were transacted outside the United States. Fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services provided by us in foreign markets where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency. The financial crisis during 2008 and 2009 caused extreme and unprecedented volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. These fluctuations may occur again and may impact our financial results. We cannot predict when, or if, this volatility will cease or the extent of its impact on our future financial results. Accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations may therefore materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future growth will be influenced by the adoption of hybrid and electric vehicles. Our growth will be influenced by the adoption of hybrid and electric vehicles, and we are subject to the risk of any reduced demand for hybrid or electric vehicles. If customers do not adopt hybrid and electric vehicles, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be affected. The market for hybrid and electric vehicles is relatively new and rapidly evolving and is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, price competition, additional 19Table of Contentscompetitors, evolving government regulation and industry standards, frequent new vehicle announcements and changing customer demands and behaviors. Factors that may influence the adoption of hybrid and electric vehicles include: •perceptions about hybrid vehicle and electric vehicle quality, safety, design, performance and cost, especially if adverse events occur that are linked to the quality or safety of hybrid or electric vehicles; •the availability of vehicles using alternative technologies or fuel sources; •perceptions about, and the actual cost of purchasing and operating, vehicles using alternative technologies or fuel sources; •improvements in the fuel economy of the internal combustion engine; •the availability of service for hybrid and electric vehicles; •the environmental consciousness of customers; •volatility in the cost of oil, gasoline and diesel; •perceptions of the dependency of the United States on oil from unstable or hostile countries, and government regulations and economic incentives promoting fuel efficiency and alternate forms of energy; •the availability of tax and other governmental incentives to purchase and operate hybrid or electric vehicles or future regulation requiring increased use of non-polluting vehicles; and •macroeconomic factors. Additionally, our customers may become subject to regulations that require them to alter the design of their hybrid or electric vehicles, which could negatively impact consumer interest in their vehicles, resulting in a decline in the demand for our products. The influence of any of the factors described above may cause current or potential customers to cease to purchase our products, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Escalating pricing pressures from our customers and other customer requirements may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The automotive industry has been characterized by significant pricing pressure from customers for many years. This trend is partly attributable to the strong purchasing power of major OEMs and aftermarket customers. Virtually all automakers and aftermarket customers have implemented aggressive price reduction initiatives and objectives each year with their suppliers, and we expect these actions to continue in the future. As our customers grow, including through consolidation, their ability to exert pricing pressure increases. Our customers often expect us to quote fixed prices or contractually obligate us to accept prices with annual price reductions. Price reductions have impacted our sales and profit margins and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Accordingly, our future profitability will partly depend on our ability to reduce costs. If we are unable to offset customer price reductions through improved operating efficiencies, new manufacturing processes, technological improvements, sourcing alternatives and other cost reduction initiatives, these price reductions may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our supply agreements with some of our customers require us to provide our products at predetermined prices. In some cases, these prices decline over the course of the contract. The costs that we incur to fulfill these contracts may vary substantially from our initial estimates. Unanticipated cost increases may occur as a result of several factors, including increases in the costs of labor, components or materials. Although in some cases we are permitted to pass on to our customers the cost increases associated with specific materials, cost increases that we cannot pass on to our customers could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, consistent with common industry practice, a majority of our aftermarket customers, including both large retail customers and smaller warehouse distributors, require us to agree to terms that reduce the customer's investment in inventory held for sale. These measures include extended payment terms for purchased inventory (often coupled with customer-supplied factoring arrangements), our supply of inventory without our receipt from them of a cash deposit in respect of the cores included in the finished goods, and other arrangements. Participation in these initiatives requires us to incur factoring costs and to invest increased financial resources in cores. To the extent these demands increase in number and dollar volume, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if our financing costs increase or we are unable to obtain adequate financing. In addition, certain of our agreements with customers subject us to penalties if we fail to provide a minimum level of order fulfillment. To the extent we are unable to obtain certain materials or remanufacture the products under such 20Table of Contentscontracts or we are unable to maintain necessary inventory levels, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Circumstances over which we have no control may affect our ability to deliver products to customers and the cost of shipping and handling. We rely on third parties to handle and transport components and raw materials to our facilities and finished products to our customers. Due to factors beyond our control, including changes in fuel prices, political events, border crossing difficulties, governmental regulation of transportation, changes in market rates, carrier availability, disruptions in transportation infrastructure and acts of God, we may not receive components and raw materials, and may not be able to transport our products to our customers, in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Freight costs are strongly correlated to oil prices, have been volatile in the past and are likely to be volatile in the future. As we incur substantial freight costs to transport materials and components from our suppliers, and to deliver finished products to our customers, an increase in freight costs could increase our operating costs, which we may be unable to pass to our customers. Assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights could materially harm our business. Our industry is characterized by companies that hold large numbers of patents and other intellectual property rights and that vigorously pursue, protect and enforce intellectual property rights. There are likely issued patents owned by third parties that may relate to technology used in our industry and to which we do not have licenses. From time to time, third parties may assert against us and our customers and distributors their patent and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. See Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information.Claims that our products or technology infringe third-party intellectual property rights, regardless of their merit or resolution, are frequently costly to defend or settle and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. In addition, many of our supply agreements require us to indemnify our customers and distributors from third-party infringement claims, which have in the past required, and may in the future require, that we defend those claims and might require that we pay damages in the case of adverse rulings. Claims of this sort also could harm our relationships with our customers and might deter future customers from doing business with us. We may not prevail in these proceedings given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any pending or future proceedings result in an adverse outcome, we could be required to: •cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing products or technology; •pay substantial damages for infringement; •expend significant resources to develop non-infringing products or technology; •license technology from the third-party claiming infringement, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms or at all; •enter into cross-licenses with our competitors, which could weaken our overall intellectual property portfolio; •lose the opportunity to license our technology to others or to collect royalty payments based on our intellectual property rights; •pay substantial damages to our customers or end users to discontinue use or replace infringing technology with non-infringing technology; or •relinquish rights associated with one or more of our patent claims, if our claims are held invalid or otherwise unenforceable. Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. Our success partly depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as customary contractual protections with our customers, distributors, employees and consultants, and through security measures to protect our trade secrets. It is possible that: 21Table of Contents•our present or future patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights will lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or, in the case of third-party patents licensed or sub-licensed to us, be licensed to others; •our intellectual property rights may not provide any competitive advantages to us; •our pending or future patent applications may not be issued or may not have the coverage we originally sought; and •our intellectual property rights may not be enforceable in jurisdictions where competition is intense or where legal protection may be weak. Our competitors may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our proprietary technologies, duplicate our proprietary technologies or design around the patents we own or license. If we pursue litigation to assert our intellectual property rights, an adverse decision in the litigation could limit our ability to assert our intellectual property rights, limit the value of our technology or otherwise harm our business. We are also a party to a number of patent and intellectual property license agreements. Some of these license agreements require us to make one-time or periodic payments to the counterparties. We may need to obtain additional licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future, which we may not be able to do on acceptable terms. Our confidentiality agreements with our employees and others may not adequately prevent the disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, partners, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent the disclosure of our confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure. Others may also independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our trade secret and other proprietary rights, and the failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could harm our competitive position. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement and other losses. Our product agreements with certain customers include standard indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify customers for losses as a result of intellectual property infringement claims and, in some cases, for damages caused by us to property or persons. To the extent not covered by applicable insurance, a large indemnity payment could harm our business. We are the subject of various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. We are involved in various litigation matters, and may, from time to time be involved in or the subject of governmental or regulatory agency inquiries or investigations. See Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information.If we are unsuccessful in our defense in the litigation matters, or compliance with any governmental or regulatory rules, we may be forced to pay damages or fines and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, which may become impaired in the future. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. Goodwill, which represents the excess of reorganization value over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was $271.4 million as of December 31, 2012, or 24.6% of our total assets. Other intangible assets, net, were $99.3 million as of December 31, 2012, or 9.0% of our total assets. Impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products sold by our business, and a variety of other factors. The amount of 22Table of Contentsany quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge that is included in operating income. We are subject to financial statement risk if goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets become impaired. Unexpected changes in core availability or the market value of cores may harm our financial condition. Cores are used starters or alternators that customers exchange when they purchase new products. If usable, we refurbish these cores into a remanufactured product that we sell to our aftermarket customers. If the availability of usable cores declines, we may have to purchase cores in the open market at values that may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If core market values decline below cost, then we would record a charge against our operating income for the devaluation of core inventory. This devaluation may harm our results of operations. Environmental and health and safety liabilities and requirements could require us to incur material costs. We are subject to various U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and worker health and safety, including those governing: •discharges of pollutants into the ground, air and water; •the generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste materials; and •the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties. The nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of liabilities and claims with respect to environmental matters, including on-site and off-site treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. We have given indemnities to subsequent owners for certain of our former operational sites, and we have separately received indemnification, subject to certain limitations, with respect to one of those sites. We could incur material costs in connection with these matters, including in connection with sites where we do not have indemnifications from third parties, where the indemnitor ceases to pay under its indemnity obligations or where the indemnities otherwise become inapplicable or unavailable. Environmental and health-related requirements are complex, subject to change and have tended to become more and more stringent. Future developments could require us to make additional expenditures to modify or curtail our operations, install pollution control equipment or investigate and clean up contaminated sites. These developments may include: •the discovery of new information concerning past releases of hazardous substances or wastes; •the discovery or occurrence of compliance problems relating to our operations; •changes in existing environmental laws or regulations or their interpretation, or the enactment of new laws or regulations; and •more rigorous enforcement by regulatory authorities. These events could cause us to incur various expenditures and could also subject us to fines or sanctions, obligations to investigate or remediate contamination or restore natural resources, liability for third party property damage or personal injury claims and the imposition of new permitting requirements and/or the modification or revocation of our existing operating permits, among other effects. These and other developments could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. See “Business-Environmental regulation.” The catastrophic loss of one of our manufacturing facilities could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we manufacture our products in several facilities and maintain insurance covering our facilities, including business interruption insurance, a catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of one of our manufacturing facilities due to accident, labor issues, weather conditions, natural disaster, civil unrest or otherwise, whether short or long-term, could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in tax legislation in local jurisdictions may have an impact on our overall effective tax rate, which, in turn, may harm our profitability. Our overall effective tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of our pre-tax income or loss before tax. However, tax expenses and benefits are determined separately for each of our taxpaying entities or groups of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes in each jurisdiction. Losses in these jurisdictions may provide no current financial statement tax benefit. As a result, changes in the mix of profits and losses between jurisdictions, among other factors, could have a significant impact on our overall effective tax rate. Further, changes in tax 23Table of Contentslegislation, such as changes in tax rates, transfer pricing regimes, the applicability of value added taxes and the imposition of new taxes, could have an adverse effect on profitability. Certain of our officers and directors have interests and positions that could present potential conflicts.A number of our directors and officers hold similar positions with our controlling shareholder, FNF, and certain of FNF's affiliates. For example, Douglas K. Ammerman is a director of the Company and is also a director of FNF. Similarly, William P. Foley, II, George P. Scanlon and Brent B. Bickett, who are also directors of the Company, serve as executive officers of FNF. In addition, Michael L. Gravelle, our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, serves as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of FNF. As a result of the foregoing, there may be circumstances where certain of our executive officers and directors may be subject to conflicts of interest with respect to, among other things: (i) our ongoing relationship with FNF, including related party agreements and other arrangements with respect to the administration of tax matters, employee benefits and indemnification; and (ii) conflicts of time with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting the Company.We seek to manage these potential conflicts through abstention, oversight by independent members of our Board of Directors and provisions in our agreements with FNF, if any. However, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts with FNF, or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with unaffiliated persons or third parties.We have significant amounts of debt and require significant cash flow to service our debt. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness and may issue additional debt in the future. Our high levels of indebtedness could have important consequences, including: •adversely affecting our stock price; •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, which reduces the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; •increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate; •making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our financing documents; •impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; •placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors who are not as highly leveraged; and •triggering an event of default under our credit facilities if we fail to comply with the related financial and other restrictive covenants. In order to adequately service our indebtedness, we require a significant amount of cash. Our future cash flow is subject to some factors that are beyond our control, and our future cash flow may not be sufficient to meet our obligations and commitments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our indebtedness and to meet our other commitments, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as delaying capital expenditures, refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling material assets or operations or seeking to raise additional debt or equity capital. These actions may not be implemented on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, or at all, and may not enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements. Restrictive covenants in our indebtedness may prohibit us from adopting any of these alternatives (with the failure to comply with these covenants resulting in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness). Our assets and cash flow may be insufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, if accelerated upon an event of default. We may be unable to repay, refinance or restructure the payments of those debt instruments. Our debt instruments restrict our current and future operations. The agreements governing our indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: •incur or guarantee additional debt, incur liens or issue certain equity; •declare or make distributions to our stockholders, repurchase equity or prepay certain debt; •make loans and certain investments; •make certain acquisitions of equity or assets; •enter into certain transactions with affiliates; •enter into mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations; •consolidate, transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of certain assets; 24Table of Contents•enter into sale and leaseback transactions; •enter into restrictive agreements; •make capital expenditures; •amend or modify organizational documents; and •engage in businesses other than the businesses we currently conduct. In addition to the restrictions and covenants listed above, our debt instruments require us to comply with specified financial maintenance covenants. These restrictions or covenants could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet certain capital needs and could otherwise restrict our corporate activities. Any one or more of the risks discussed in this section, as well as events not yet contemplated, could result in our failing to meet the covenants and restrictions described above. Events beyond our control may affect our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions, and an adverse development affecting our business could require us to seek waivers or amendments of these covenants or restrictions or alternative or additional sources of financing. We may be unable to obtain these waivers, amendments or alternatives on favorable terms, if at all. A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in any of our existing or future debt instruments, including our inability to comply with the financial maintenance covenants in these debt instruments, could result in an event of default under these debt instruments. An event of default could permit the agent or lenders under the debt instruments to discontinue lending, to accelerate the related debt, as well as any other debt to which a cross acceleration or cross default provision applies, and to institute enforcement proceedings against our assets that secure the extensions of credit under our outstanding indebtedness. The agent or lenders could terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds. If the agent or lenders require immediate repayments, we may not be able to repay them in full. This could harm our financial results, liquidity, cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and could lead to our bankruptcy. Substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries' assets are pledged as collateral under our credit facilities. Substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries' assets are pledged as collateral for these borrowings. If we are unable to repay all secured borrowings when due, whether at maturity or if declared due and payable following a default, the agent or the lenders, as applicable, would have the right to proceed against the assets pledged to secure the indebtedness and may sell these assets in order to repay those borrowings, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate as a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for cash to satisfy the obligations of the holding company. Remy International, Inc. is a holding company. Our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries. The payment of funds in the form of dividends, inter-company payments, tax sharing payments and other payments may in some instances be subject to restrictions under the terms of our subsidiaries' financing arrangements. Our variable rate indebtedness exposes us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt costs to increase significantly. A significant portion of our borrowings accrue interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risks. A 1% increase in the current variable rate would have an immaterial impact on our interest expense because the rate on our Term B loan, our primary debt facility, would not rise above the LIBOR floor rate of 1.75% set under our Term B loan agreement. In addition, we have interest rate swaps in place with respect to 50% of the principal amount of our Term B loan. Our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility is subject to fluctuations of our borrowing base and periodic appraisals of certain of our assets. An appraisal could result in the reduction of available borrowings under this facility, which would harm our liquidity. The borrowings available under our revolving credit facility are subject to fluctuations in the calculation of a borrowing base, which is based on the value of our domestic accounts receivable and inventory. The administrative agent for this facility causes a third party to perform an appraisal of the assets included in the calculation of the borrowing base either on a semi-annual basis or more frequently if our availability under the facility is less than $23.75 million during any 12-month period. If certain material defaults under the facility have occurred and are continuing, then the administrative agent has the right to perform this appraisal as often as it deems necessary in its sole discretion. If an appraisal results in a significant reduction of the borrowing base, then a portion of the outstanding indebtedness under the facility could become immediately due and payable. 25Table of ContentsOur principal stockholders have substantial control over us and will be able to influence corporate matters. Our directors, executive officers and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 56.3% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012. Our major stockholder, Fidelity National Special Opportunities, Inc. (a subsidiary of Fidelity National Financial, Inc. or NYSE:FNF), owned approximately 51% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012. On January 31, 2013, FNF executives or affiliated Board members comprised four (4) of the eight (8) member Board of Directors. As a result, we are a subsidiary of FNF who will be able to control or exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control over us.Additionally, Delaware law permits corporations to adopt provisions renouncing any interest or expectancy in certain opportunities that are presented to the company or its officers, directors or stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation renounces any interest or expectancy that we have in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, corporate opportunities that are from time to time presented to members of our board of directors who are not our employees, other than opportunities expressly presented to such directors solely in their capacity as our director. For purposes of these provisions, a director who is the chairman of our board of directors shall not be deemed to be an employee of the company solely by reason of holding such position. These provisions apply even if the opportunity is one that we might reasonably have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted the opportunity to do so. Furthermore, no such person is liable to us for breach of any fiduciary duty, as a director or otherwise, by reason of the fact that such person personally or on behalf of any other person pursues or acquires such business opportunity, directs such business opportunity to another person or fails to present such business opportunity, or information regarding such business opportunity, to the company. As a result, our non-employee directors may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities such as acquisition opportunities and may direct such opportunities to other businesses in which they have invested or which they advise, in which case we may not become aware of or otherwise have the ability to pursue such opportunities. Further, such businesses may choose to compete with us for these opportunities. Our renouncing our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to such persons could adversely impact our business or prospects if attractive business opportunities are procured by such persons, or are directed by such persons to other businesses, for their own benefit rather than for ours. Future sales of our common stock by our stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales will occur. We have granted registration rights to some of our stockholders. If these holders exercise their registration rights, we must register, under the Securities Act, the offer and sale of shares of our common stock held by them. In the aggregate, as of December 31, 2012, these registration rights covered approximately 19.4 million shares of our common stock that were then outstanding. An exercise of these registration rights, or similar registration rights that may apply to securities we may issue in the future, could result in additional sales of our common stock in the market, which could cause our stock price to fall. The exercise of registration rights, and the sale of shares into public markets by our stockholders, could also harm our ability to raise additional equity or other capital. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management's attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members and executives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that are not incurred as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We incur costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and related rules implemented or to be implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the requirements of NASDAQ. The expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. We expect that laws and regulations affecting public companies will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly, although we are currently unable to estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar 26Table of Contentscoverage. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on our board committees or as our executive officers and may divert management's attention. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. If we do not timely satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. We are subject to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules of the SEC, which generally require our management and independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We expect that our management and our independent registered public accounting firm will have to provide the first of such reports with our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2013. To date, we have never conducted a review of our internal control for the purpose of providing the reports required by these rules. During the course of our review and testing, we may identify deficiencies and be unable to remediate them before we must provide the required reports. We have identified material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting in the past and we may identify additional deficiencies or weaknesses again in the future. We or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, which could harm our operating results, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and cause the trading price of our stock to fall. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.27Table of Contents