ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Highly-Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Failure of our U.S. schools to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations, loss of federal and state financial aid funding for our students, or loss of our authorization to operate our U.S. schools. We derive a significant portion of our revenue and cash flows from Title IV Programs, as a significant portion of students who attend our U.S. schools rely on Title IV Program funds to finance their education. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the ED, and be certified as an eligible institution by the ED. Most ED requirements are applied on an institutional basis, with an institution defined by the ED as a main campus and any of its branch campuses or locations. As a result, our U.S. schools are subject to extensive regulation by the ED, various state agencies, and various accrediting commissions. These regulatory requirements cover virtually all phases of our U.S. schools’ operations, including educational program offerings, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing and recruiting, financial operations, payment of refunds to students who withdraw, acquisitions or opening of new institutions, addition of new educational programs, and changes in our corporate structure and ownership. All of our domestic U.S. schools, with the exception of Kitchen Academy, participate in Title IV Programs. The following are some of the most significant regulatory requirements and risks related to governmental and accrediting body oversight of our business: · Any actions by the U.S. Congress that significantly reduce funding for Title IV Programs or the ability of our students to participate in these programs, or establish different or more stringent requirements for our U.S. schools to participate in Title IV Programs, including the pending reauthorization of the HEA, could have a material adverse effect on our student population, results of operations, and cash flows. · Our U.S. schools may lose their eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if the U.S. schools’ student loan default rates are greater than the standards set by the ED. · We may be required to post a letter of credit or accept other limitations to continue our U.S. schools’ participation in Title IV Programs if we or our schools do not meet the ED’s financial responsibility standards or if our schools do not correctly calculate and timely return Title IV Program funds for students who withdraw before completing their program of study. · The ability of our U.S. schools to participate in Title IV Programs may be impaired if regulators do not timely approve a change of control of us or any of our U.S. schools. 38 · Any of our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if, on a cash basis, the percentage of the U.S. school’s revenue derived from Title IV Programs in any fiscal year is greater than 90%. · We may be required to accept limitations to continue our U.S. schools’ participation in Title IV Programs if we fail to satisfy the ED’s administrative capability standards. · Our U.S. schools are subject to sanctions if payments of impermissible commissions, bonuses, or other incentive payments are made to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admissions, or financial aid activities. The agencies that regulate our U.S. schools periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. We cannot predict with certainty how all of the requirements applied by these agencies will be interpreted or whether our schools will be able to comply with these requirements in the future. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may bring claims or actions against us based on alleged violations of the extensive regulatory requirements discussed above. If one of our U.S. schools were to violate any of these regulatory requirements, these agencies could (a) impose monetary fines or penalties, (b) require repayment of funds received under Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs, (c) place restrictions on or terminate our U.S. schools’ eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs, (d) place limitations or terminate our U.S. schools’ operations or ability to grant degrees and certificates, (e) restrict or revoke our U.S. schools’ accreditations, or (f) subject us or our U.S. schools to civil or criminal penalties. Any one of these sanctions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. In addition, if any of our U.S. schools were to lose, or fail to obtain, state authorization, the U.S. school would be unable to offer postsecondary education and we would be forced to close the U.S. school. If any of our U.S. schools were to lose its accreditation, the U.S. school would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. If any of our U.S. schools were to lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, and we could not arrange for adequate alternative financing sources for students attending that U.S. school, we could be forced to close the U.S. school. The closing of any of our U.S. schools could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Even if we maintain compliance with applicable governmental and accrediting body regulations, increased regulatory scrutiny or adverse publicity arising from allegations of non-compliance may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our financial results, growth rates, and prospects. See “Student Financial Aid and the Regulation of the Postsecondary Education Industry” in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the regulatory requirements that apply to us and our U.S. schools. The accreditation review of our American InterContinental University school has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. As previously disclosed, on December 6, 2005, we were notified by SACS that it had placed AIU, which includes seven of our on-ground campuses and our AIU Online campus, on “Probation” status for one year. This action followed a July 2005 SACS special committee visit of AIU which resulted in a report identifying specific recommendations for addressing certain deficiencies with respect to AIU’s compliance with the SACS Principles of Accreditation. At SACS’ December 11, 2006, meeting, SACS extended AIU’s “Probation” status through December 2007. Under the SACS’ rules an institution may only remain on Probation status for two consecutive years, after which SACS must either lift the Probation or remove the institution from membership. Adverse publicity related to this action has harmed the reputation of AIU and impaired AIU’s ability to attract and retain students at our schools. In addition, this action has had, and will continued to have, a disruptive effect upon the operations of our business, including the diversion 39 of significant time and attention of AIU’s senior management, which adversely affected our results of operations for 2006 and which we expect will adversely affect our results of operations for 2007. In addition, we have incurred substantial expenses in connection with this matter to implement various improvements at AIU. Although we are committed to responding fully to each area of concern raised by SACS, we cannot predict the outcome of this review. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects, student population, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Investigations, claims, and actions against us and other companies in our industry could adversely affect our business and stock price. We and a number of our peer companies in the for-profit, postsecondary education industry have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny in recent years. In particular, allegations of wrongdoing have resulted in reviews or investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice (the “Justice Department”), the SEC, the ED, state agencies, and accrediting agencies of us and our schools. These allegations, reviews and investigations of us and certain of our peer companies, and any accompanying adverse publicity relating to these matters may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to successfully conclude the litigation, governmental investigations, and inquiries pending against us, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects could be adversely affected. CEC, certain of our subsidiaries and schools, and certain of our current and former directors and executive officers have been named as defendants in numerous lawsuits alleging violations of the federal securities laws. In addition, certain government agencies are conducting investigations regarding us, including the Justice Department. We are also subject to various other lawsuits, investigations, and claims, covering a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to, claims involving students or graduates and routine employment matters. Please see Note 13 “Commitments and Contingencies” of the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of these matters. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters and have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant defense costs and other expenses in connection with them. Such costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and the market price of our common stock. We may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage related to these matters, which could have a further material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. As previously disclosed, in April 2006 we were advised by the staff of the Midwest Regional Office of the SEC that the staff intends to recommend to the SEC that it terminate its investigation of us. The staff of the SEC also advised us that it will recommend that no enforcement action be taken against us. Recommendations by the SEC staff do not, however, constitute final action by the SEC, as the SEC makes its own determination as to whether or not to follow the recommendations of the SEC staff. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the SEC will terminate its investigation of us or that no enforcement action will be taken against us. While we continue in our efforts to cooperate with and respond to requests for information from the Justice Department in connection with its ongoing investigation, we cannot predict the duration or outcome of the Justice Department investigation, and the investigation may expand, and other regulatory agencies may become involved. Similarly, the SEC investigation may be reopened. The outcome and costs associated with these investigations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, and the investigations could result in adverse publicity and divert the 40 efforts and attention of our management team from our ordinary business operations. The SEC and Justice Department investigations and any related legal and administrative proceedings could also include the institution of administrative, civil injunctive, or criminal proceedings against us or our current or former officers or employees, the imposition of fines and penalties, suspensions, or other remedies and sanctions. We may also be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage in connection with these matters, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation and the market price of our common stock. The turnover in our management team could negatively impact our business. In 2006 and early 2007, we lost the services of several of our executive officers, including our long-time President and Chief Executive Officer. In addition, several other members of our senior management team departed in 2006 and early 2007, and other members assumed new roles in our organization. With the departures, we lost persons with a significant amount of experience and knowledge about our business, our students, and our industry and who maintained strong relationships with our regulators, accreditors, and employees. Further, we believe that the turnover of our senior management has created uncertainty that has adversely affected our relationships with our students and employees and also our reputation in the market place. The new members of our management team, including a new President and Chief Executive Officer when appointed, and the persons now serving in new positions may need to invest a significant amount of time to learn about new aspects of our business and our markets, which could limit their effectiveness in managing our business for a period of time. Further, there will likely be significant uncertainty as to how we will perform under new leadership. Our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted if the members of our management team cannot effectively manage and operate our business. Our recent headcount reductions may place additional strain on our resources, may impair our operations, and may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we commenced various corporate realignment initiatives intended to reduce costs and centralize our staffing and structure. In connection with these initiatives, we have restructured our organization and reduced our corporate workforce by approximately 120 employees, or approximately 12% of our total corporate workforce. Further reductions could occur if we are unable to grow our revenues. There have been and may continue to be severance and other employee-related costs associated with the workforce reduction, and our realignment plan may yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond the planned reduction. In addition, many of the employees who were terminated possessed specific knowledge or expertise, and we may be unable to transfer that knowledge or expertise to others in the organization. In that case, the absence of such employees creates significant operational difficulties. Further, the reduction in workforce may reduce employee morale and may create concern among potential and existing employees about job security, which may lead to difficulty in hiring and increased turnover in our current workforce and place undue strain upon our operational resources. Several of the employees who were terminated may also go to work for our competitors. As a result, our ability to respond to unexpected challenges may be impaired, and we may be unable to take advantage of new opportunities. The loss of our key personnel could harm our business. Our success to date has depended, and will continue to depend, largely on the skills, efforts, and motivation of our executive officers and other key personnel. Our success also depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified corporate management and our schools’ ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty members and administrators. We face competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. 41 In addition, to support our growth, we must hire, retain, develop, and train qualified admissions representatives who are dedicated to student recruitment. If we are unable to hire, develop, and train qualified admissions representatives, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts could be adversely affected. Our future operating results and the market price of the common stock could be materially adversely affected if we are required to write-down the carrying value of goodwill associated with any of our operating divisions in the future. In accordance with SFAS 142, we review on at least an annual basis our goodwill balances for impairment through the application of a fair-value-based test. Our estimate of fair-value for each of our operating divisions is based primarily on projected future results and cash flows and other assumptions. As described in Note 9 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” of the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge as of March 31, 2006, related to our discontinued Gibbs division in the amount of $10.4 million, pretax, and we recorded a goodwill impairment charge as of June 30, 2006, related to our Health Education division in the amount of $85.0 million, pretax. If we are required to significantly write-down the carrying value of goodwill associated with any of our operating divisions in accordance with SFAS 142 in the future, our operating results and the market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully divest those schools and campuses included in the Sales Plan or to realize the anticipated benefits from such divestitures, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. A key component of our business strategy involves the divestiture of several of our schools and campuses, including the nine campuses that comprise our Gibbs division, McIntosh College, the Long Beach, California and Sunnyvale, California campuses of Brooks College and Lehigh Valley College. We may be unable to sell these schools and campuses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the sale transactions and transition of the divested schools and campuses to other entities may require significant resources from our legal, finance and business development teams and result in expenses associated with the negotiation and consummation of those transactions and winding up of entities. In addition to the added costs of the divestiture, we may not ultimately achieve anticipated benefits or cost reductions from such divestitures. Even if we are able to sell these schools and campuses, we may face other risks, including material restructuring charges. All of these risks could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Risks specific to our schools’ online campuses could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our schools’ online campuses intend to increase student enrollments, and more resources will be required to support this growth, including additional faculty, admissions, academic, and financial aid personnel. This growth may place a significant strain on the operational resources of our schools’ online campuses. Our schools’ online campuses’ success depends, in part, on their ability to expand the content of their programs, develop new programs in a cost-effective manner, maintain good standings with their regulators and accreditors, and meet their students’ needs in a timely manner. The expansion of our schools’ online campuses’ existing programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by their students or the online education market, and new programs could be delayed due to current and future unforeseen regulatory restrictions. The performance and reliability of the program infrastructure at our schools’ online campuses is critical to the reputation of these campuses and the campuses ability to attract and retain students. Any computer system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in traffic on our computer networks 42 that host our schools’ online campuses, may result in the unavailability of our schools’ online campuses’ computer networks. Individual, sustained, or repeated occurrences could significantly damage the reputation of our schools’ online campuses and result in a loss of potential or existing students. Additionally, our schools’ online campuses’ computer systems and operations are vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters and network and telecommunications failures. Any interruption to our schools’ online campuses’ computer systems or operations could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our schools’ online campuses to attract and retain students. Our computer networks may also be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, and other security threats. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Due to the sensitive nature of the information contained on our networks, such as students’ grades, our networks may be targeted by hackers. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Budget constraints in states that provide state financial aid to our students could reduce the amount of such financial aid that is available to our students, which could adversely affect our student population. Alternatively, improved state financing may result in increased support for lower-priced public institutions, which may increase competition for students. A significant number of states in which our schools operate have faced budget constraints that have caused or may cause them to reduce state appropriations in a number of areas. These states may decide to reduce the amount of state financial aid that they provide to students, but we cannot predict how significant any future reductions in financial aid will be or how long any such reductions will persist. If the level of state funding for our students decreases and our students are not able to secure alternative sources of funding for their education, our student population could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Alternatively, a number of states are recovering from budgetary constraints that caused them to reduce funding for public institutions, notably community colleges. Increased state support for such public institutions resulting in increased competition for students could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. High interest rates could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students. Interest rates have reached historical lows in recent years, creating a favorable borrowing environment for students attending our schools. Much of the financing our students receive is tied to floating interest rates. Interest rates have increased in recent months, resulting in a corresponding increase in the cost to our existing and prospective students of financing their education. We cannot predict whether interest rates will increase or decrease in the future, but additional rate increases could further increase the cost of borrowing for our students, which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our schools and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students’ repayment of Title IV Program and private loans. Higher default rates may, in turn, adversely impact our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs or the willingness of private lenders to make private loan programs available to students who attend our schools, which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our schools. If we fail to effectively identify, pursue, and integrate acquired schools, both in the U.S. and outside of the U.S., our growth could be slowed and our profitability may be adversely affected. As part of our business strategy, we expect to rely on acquisitions as a key component of our overall long-term growth. From time to time, we engage in evaluations of, and discussions with, possible domestic 43 and international acquisition candidates. We may not continue to be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or to acquire any such schools on favorable terms. In addition, we may incur debt to finance future acquisitions or issue securities in connection with future acquisitions, which may dilute the holdings of our stockholders. To the extent that we continue to pursue acquisitions of postsecondary educational institutions, our ability to complete such transactions may be adversely affected by the ongoing government investigations and regulatory reviews described in Note 13 “Commitments and Contingencies—Federal Regulatory Actions” of the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Also, there may be difficulties and complexities associated with our expansion into international markets, and our business strategies may not succeed beyond our current markets. If we do not effectively address these risks, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired. If we fail to effectively identify, establish, and operate new schools and new branch campuses of our existing schools, our growth may be slowed and our profitability may be adversely affected. As part of our business strategy, we anticipate opening new schools and new branch campuses of our existing schools throughout the U.S. Establishing new schools and branch campuses poses unique challenges and requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing and advertising expenses, and devote resources that are different than, and in some cases greater than, those required with respect to the operation of our existing schools. We may not be able to identify or successfully pursue suitable expansion opportunities to help maintain or accelerate our current growth rate. We may not be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate a new school or branch campus. Any failure by us to effectively identify, establish, and manage the operations of a new school or branch campus could slow our growth and make any newly-established school or branch campus more costly to operate than we had planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. To open a new school or branch campus, we would be required to obtain the appropriate approvals from applicable state and accrediting regulatory agencies, which may be conditioned, delayed, or denied in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. Approval by these regulatory agencies may be negatively impacted due to pending investigations, regulatory reviews, and any adverse publicity relating to such matters. In addition, to be eligible to participate in Title IV Programs, the ED and applicable state and accrediting bodies must certify a new school or branch campus. Our ability to open new schools or new branch campuses of existing school may be adversely affected by ongoing investigations and regulatory reviews described in Note 13 “Commitments and Contingencies—Federal Regulatory Actions” of the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to keep pace with changing market needs and technology. Increasingly, prospective employers of students who graduate from our schools demand that their new employees possess appropriate technological skills and also appropriate “soft” skills, such as communication, critical thinking, and teamwork skills. These skills can evolve rapidly in a changing economic and technological environment. Accordingly, it is important for our schools’ educational programs to evolve in response to those economic and technological changes. The expansion of existing programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by current or prospective students or the employers of our graduates. Even if our schools are able to develop acceptable new programs, our schools may not be able to begin offering those new programs as quickly as required by prospective employers or as quickly as our competitors offer similar programs. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, unusually rapid technological changes, or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired, the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer, and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 44 Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our schools and programs among high school graduates and working adults. The awareness of our schools and the programs that our schools offer among high school graduates and working adults is important to the success of our schools. If our schools are unable to successfully market and advertise their educational programs, our schools’ ability to attract and enroll prospective students in such programs could be adversely affected, and, consequently, our ability to increase revenue or maintain profitability could be impaired. Some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing and advertising our schools and the programs that they offer include, but are not limited to, student or employer dissatisfaction with educational programs and services, diminished access to high school students, and our failure to maintain or expand our brand names or other factors related to our marketing or advertising practices. We compete with a variety of educational institutions, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our student population and revenue could be adversely impacted. The postsecondary education industry is highly fragmented and competitive. Our schools compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities, other proprietary schools, including those that offer online education programs, and alternatives to higher education, such as immediate employment and military service. Some public and private institutions are able to charge lower tuition for courses of study similar to those offered by our schools due, in part, to government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions, and other financial resources not available to proprietary institutions. In addition, some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. An increase in competition could affect the success of our marketing efforts and enable our competitors to recruit prospective students more effectively. If we were to lose market share due to increased competition, we may be required to reduce our tuition charges and increase spending for marketing efforts, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our credit agreements limit our ability to take various actions. Our credit agreements limit our ability to take various actions, including paying dividends and disposing of assets. Accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. Our credit agreements also require us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. A breach of any covenants contained in our credit agreements could result in an event of default under the agreements and allow the lenders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any indebtedness outstanding thereunder, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Our future operating results and financial conditions would be materially adversely affected if a “change in control” is deemed to occur under our share-based compensation plans. As of December 31, 2006, the most recent date of disclosure required under the Exchange Act, no individual shareholder owned more than 15.50% of the combined voting power of our then outstanding common stock. However, if any person or entity, including a group, were to acquire additional shares of our common stock such that they would beneficially own 20% or more of the combined voting power of our common stock, a change in control would be deemed to have occurred under our 1998 Employee Incentive Compensation Plan and 1998 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan. In that case, we would be required to recognize substantial share-based compensation expense and an additional liability in an amount equal to the estimated obligation that would be due to plan participants who elected to surrender to us all or part of a share-based award in exchange for cash. The recognition of this additional expense and liability would have a material adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. See Note 16 “Share-based Compensation” of the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Part IV, 45 Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the effects of a change in control under our share-based compensation plans. Risk Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially in the future. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control. These factors include: · Our ability to meet or exceed our own forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; · Quarterly variations in our operating results; · Changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; · General conditions in the for-profit, postsecondary education industry, including changes in the ED and state laws and regulations and accreditation standards; · The initiation, pendency, or outcome of litigation, regulatory reviews, and investigations, including the pending Justice Department and SEC investigations, the SACS review, and any adverse publicity related thereto; · Changes in our own forecasts or earnings estimates by analysts; · Future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets; · Price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have particularly affected the market prices of many companies in the for-profit, postsecondary education industry in recent periods; · The loss of key personnel; and · General economic conditions. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent an investor from selling shares of our common stock at or above the price at which such shares were purchased. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 46 