ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Highly-Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Failure of our U.S. schools to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations, loss of federal and state financial aid funding for our students, or loss of our authorization to operate our U.S. schools. We derive a significant portion of our revenue and cash flows from Title IV Programs, as a significant portion of students who attend our U.S. schools rely on Title IV Program funds to finance their education. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the ED, and be certified as an eligible institution by the ED. Most ED requirements are applied on an institutional basis, with an institution defined by the ED as a main campus and any of its branch campuses or locations. As a result, our U.S. schools are subject to extensive regulation by the ED and various state agencies and accrediting commissions. These regulatory requirements cover virtually all phases of our U.S. schools’ operations, including educational program offerings, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing and recruiting, financial operations, payment of refunds to students who withdraw, return of funds to the Title IV programs for students who withdraw, acquisitions or opening of new institutions, addition of new educational programs, and changes in our corporate structure and ownership. All of our domestic U.S. schools, with the exception of Kitchen Academy, participate in Title IV Programs. The following are some of the most significant regulatory requirements and risks related to governmental and accrediting body oversight of our business: • Our U.S. schools may lose their eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if their student loan default rates are greater than the standards set by the ED. • We may be required to post a letter of credit or accept other limitations to continue our U.S. schools’ participation in Title IV Programs if we or our schools do not meet the ED’s financial responsibility standards or if our schools do not correctly calculate and timely return Title IV Program funds for students who withdraw before completing their program of study. • The ability of our U.S. schools to participate in Title IV Programs may be impaired if regulators do not approve a change of control of us or any of our U.S. schools on a timely basis. • Any of our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if, on a cash basis, the percentage of the U.S. school’s revenue derived from Title IV Programs in any fiscal year is greater than 90%. • We may be required to accept limitations to continue our U.S. schools’ participation in Title IV Programs if we fail to satisfy the ED’s administrative capability standards. • Our U.S. schools are subject to sanctions if payments of impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments are made to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities. The agencies that regulate our U.S. schools periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. We cannot predict with certainty how all of the requirements applied by these agencies will be interpreted or whether our schools will be able to comply with these requirements in the future. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may bring claims or actions against us based on alleged violations of the extensive regulatory requirements discussed above. If one of our U.S. schools were to violate any of these regulatory requirements, these agencies could (a) impose monetary fines or penalties, (b) require repayment of funds received under Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs, (c) place restrictions on or terminate our U.S. schools’ eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs, (d) place limitations on or terminate our U.S. schools’ operations or ability to grant degrees and certificates, (e) restrict or revoke our U.S. schools’ accreditations, (f) place limitations on our ability to open new 30 schools or offer new programs, or (g) subject us or our U.S. schools to civil or criminal penalties. Any one of these sanctions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. In addition, if any of our U.S. schools were to lose, or fail to obtain, state authorization, the school would be unable to offer postsecondary education and we would be forced to close it. If any of our U.S. schools were to lose its accreditation, the school would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. If any of our U.S. schools were to lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, and we could not arrange for adequate alternative financing sources for students attending that school, we could be forced to close it. The closing of any of our U.S. schools could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even if we maintain compliance with applicable governmental and accrediting body regulations, increased regulatory scrutiny or adverse publicity arising from allegations of non-compliance may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our financial results, growth rates, and prospects. See “Student Financial” in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the regulatory requirements that apply to us and our U.S. schools. Investigations, claims, and actions against us and other companies in our industry could adversely affect our business and stock price. We and a number of our peer companies in the for-profit, postsecondary education industry have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and litigation in recent years. In particular, allegations of wrongdoing have resulted in reviews or investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the ED, state agencies, and accrediting agencies of us and our schools. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage and have been the subject of federal and state legislative hearings. Recently, the student lending practices of postsecondary educational institutions, financial aid officers, and student loan providers generally have become the subject of investigations conducted by federal and state agencies focusing on various sectors of postsecondary education. Allegations against the overall student lending and postsecondary education sectors may impact general public perceptions of educational institutions, including us, in a negative manner. Adverse media coverage regarding other educational institutions or regarding us directly could damage our reputation, reduce student demand for our programs, adversely impact our revenues and operating profit or result in increased regulatory scrutiny. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to successfully resolve pending litigation and regulatory and governmental inquiries involving us, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected. CEC, certain of our subsidiaries and schools, and certain of our current and former directors and executive officers have been named as defendants in numerous lawsuits alleging violations of the federal securities laws. We are also subject to various other lawsuits, investigations and claims, covering a range of matters, including, but not limited to, claims involving stockholders, students and employees. Please see Note 13 “Commitments and Contingencies” of the notes to our consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of these matters. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters and expect to continue to incur significant defense costs and other expenses in connection with them. These costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. We may also be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage related to these matters, which could have a further material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common stock. 31 The turnover in our management team could negatively impact our business. In 2006 and 2007, several of our executive officers left the Company, including our long-time President and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. In addition, several other members of our senior management team have departed in recent years, and other members have assumed new roles within our organization. With these departures, we lost persons with a significant amount of experience and knowledge about our business, our students and our industry, and who maintained strong relationships with our regulators, accreditors, and employees. Further, we believe that the turnover of our senior management has created uncertainty that has adversely affected our relationships with our students and employees and also our reputation in the market place. The new members of our management team, including our new President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, may need to invest a significant amount of time to learn about new aspects of our business and our markets, which could limit their effectiveness in managing our business for a period of time. Further, there will likely be significant uncertainty as to how we will perform under new leadership. Our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted if the members of our management team cannot effectively manage and operate our business. Our corporate realignment initiatives may strain our resources, impair our operations and ability to manage our business effectively, and adversely impact our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In 2007 and 2008, we undertook various corporate realignment initiatives intended to reduce costs and increase the use of shared services. In connection with these initiatives, we have restructured our organization and eliminated approximately 220 positions. As of February 2008, we had approximately 780 corporate employees. Further reductions could occur if we are unable to grow our revenues. There have been and may continue to be severance and other employee-related costs associated with our workforce reductions, and our realignment plan may yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond the planned reduction. In addition, many of the employees who were terminated possessed specific knowledge or expertise, and we may be unable to transfer that knowledge or expertise to others in our organization. In that case, the absence of such employees creates significant operational difficulties. Further, our corporate realignment initiatives may reduce employee morale and may create concern among potential and existing employees about job security, which may lead to difficulty in hiring and increased turnover in our current workforce and place undue strain upon our operational resources. Several of the employees who were terminated may also go to work for our competitors. As a result, our ability to respond to unexpected challenges may be impaired, and we may be unable to take advantage of new opportunities. The loss of our key personnel could harm our business. Our future success will depend largely on the skills, efforts, and motivation of our executive officers and other key personnel. Our success also depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified corporate management and our schools’ ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty members and administrators. We face competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. In addition, to support our growth, we must hire, retain, develop and train qualified admissions representatives who are dedicated to student recruitment. If we are unable to hire, develop, and train qualified admissions representatives, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts could be adversely affected. 32 Our future operating results and the market price of the common stock could be materially adversely affected if we are required to write down the carrying value of goodwill associated with any of our operating divisions in the future. In accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“SFAS 142”), we review our goodwill balances for impairment on at least an annual basis through the application of a fair-value-based test. Our estimate of fair-value for each of our operating divisions is based primarily on projected future results and cash flows and other assumptions. In the future, if we are required to significantly write down the carrying value of goodwill associated with any of our operating divisions in accordance with SFAS 142, our operating results and the market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected. Capacity constraints or system disruptions to our online computer networks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain students. Our schools’ online campuses intend to increase student enrollments, and more resources will be required to support this growth, including additional faculty, admissions, academic, and financial aid personnel. This growth may place a significant strain on the operational resources of our schools’ online campuses. Our schools’ online campuses’ success depends, in part, on their ability to expand the content of their programs, develop new programs in a cost-effective manner, maintain good standing with their regulators and accreditors, and meet their students’ needs in a timely manner. The expansion of our schools’ online campuses’ existing programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by their students or the online education market, and new programs could be delayed due to current and future unforeseen regulatory restrictions. In addition, a general decline in Internet use for any reason, including due to security or privacy concerns, the cost of Internet service or changes in government regulation of Internet use may result in less demand for online educational services, in which case we may not be able to grow our online programs as planned. The performance and reliability of the program infrastructure at our schools’ online campuses is critical to the reputation of these campuses and their ability to attract and retain students. Any computer system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in traffic on our computer networks that host our schools’ online campuses, may result in the unavailability of our schools’ online campuses’ computer networks. In addition, any significant failure of our computer networks could disrupt our on-ground campus operations. Individual, sustained, or repeated occurrences could significantly damage the reputation of our schools’ online campuses and result in a loss of potential or existing students. Additionally, our schools’ online campuses’ computer systems and operations are vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters and network and telecommunications failures. Any interruption to our schools’ online campuses’ computer systems or operations could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our schools’ online campuses to attract and retain students. Our computer networks may also be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security threats. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Due to the sensitive nature of the information contained on our networks, such as students’ grades, our networks may be targeted by hackers. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. 33 Budget constraints in states that provide state financial aid to our students could reduce the amount of such financial aid that is available to our students, which could adversely affect our student population. Alternatively, improved state financing may result in increased support for lower-priced public institutions, which may increase competition for students. A significant number of states in which our schools operate have faced budget constraints that have caused or may cause them to reduce state appropriations in a number of areas. These states may decide to reduce the amount of state financial aid that they provide to students, but we cannot predict how significant any future reductions in financial aid will be or how long any such reductions will persist. If the level of state funding for our students decreases and our students are not able to secure alternative sources of funding for their education, our student population could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Alternatively, a number of states are recovering from budgetary constraints that caused them to reduce funding for public institutions, notably community colleges. Increased state support for such public institutions resulting in increased competition for students could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. High interest rates could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students. Relatively low interest rates and broad access to loans has created a favorable borrowing environment for students attending our schools. Much of the financing our students receive is tied to floating interest rates. Increases in interest rates result in a corresponding increase in the cost to our existing and prospective students of financing their education. We cannot predict whether interest rates will increase or decrease in the future, but rate increases could further increase the cost of borrowing for our students, which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our schools and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students’ repayment of Title IV Program funds and private loans. Higher default rates may, in turn, adversely impact our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs or the willingness of private lenders to make private loan programs available to students who attend our schools, which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our schools. A substantial decrease in student financing options, or a significant increase in financing costs for our students, could have a material adverse affect on our student population, revenue and financial results. The consumer credit markets in the United States have recently suffered from increases in default rates and foreclosures on mortgages. Providers of federally guaranteed student loans and alternative student loans have also experienced recent increases in default rates. Adverse market conditions for consumer and federally guaranteed student loans could result in providers of alternative loans reducing the attractiveness and/or decreasing the availability of alternative loans to postsecondary students, including students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based alternative loans. Prospective students may find that these increased financing costs make borrowing prohibitively expensive and abandon or delay enrollment in postsecondary education programs. Private lenders could also require that we pay them new or increased fees in order to provide alternative loans to prospective students. If any of these scenarios were to occur, our students’ ability to finance their education could be adversely affected and our student population could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On January 18, 2008, we received notification that Sallie Mae would be terminating its recourse loan program with us, and more broadly within all of the postsecondary education market. Sallie Mae also notified us that while it intends to continue their non-recourse programs with us, Sallie Mae is also reviewing various aspects of such programs, including underwriting criteria. Sallie Mae agreed to extend the recourse loan program past the 30 day termination period to March 31, 2008. During the extension period the discount fee on loans certified during that period increases from 25% to 44%. Our efforts to work with Sallie Mae to arrange continued funding for active students that currently utilize Sallie Mae recourse loans past March 31, 2008 were not successful. We were notified by Sallie Mae on February 14, 2008 that it would no longer continue to offer 34 recourse to existing students entering their second or subsequent academic term. We are working with third parties as well as internally to implement a funding program that will assist these students in continuing their program of study. We have estimated that up to $60 million of 2007 annual revenue was related to programs provided to new students who are impacted by the Sallie Mae decision to terminate its recourse loan program. In addition, any actions by the U.S. Congress that significantly reduce funding for Title IV Programs or the ability of our students to participate in these programs, or establish different or more stringent requirements for our U.S. schools to participate in Title IV Programs, could have a material adverse effect on our student population, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to effectively identify, pursue and integrate acquired schools, both in the U.S. and outside of the U.S., our growth could be slowed and our profitability may be adversely affected. As part of our business strategy, acquisitions are one component of our overall long-term growth. From time to time, we engage in evaluations of, and discussions with, possible domestic and international acquisition candidates. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, acquire institutions on favorable terms, or successfully integrate or profitably operate acquired institutions. In addition, we may incur debt to finance future acquisitions or issue securities in connection with future acquisitions, which may dilute the holdings of our stockholders. To the extent that we continue to pursue acquisitions of postsecondary educational institutions, our ability to complete such transactions may be adversely affected by the regulatory matters described in Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies—Federal Regulatory Matters” of the notes to our consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of these matters. Because an acquisition is considered a change in ownership and control of the acquired institution under applicable regulatory standards, we must seek approval from the ED and most applicable state agencies and accrediting agencies and possibly other regulatory bodies when we acquire an institution. If we were unable to obtain such approvals of an acquired institution, depending on the size of that acquisition, that failure could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have in the past, and may in the future, acquire schools in international markets. There may be difficulties and complexities associated with our expansion into international markets, and our business strategies may not succeed beyond our current markets. If we do not effectively address these risks, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired. If we fail to effectively identify, establish, and operate new schools and new branch campuses of our existing schools, our growth may be slowed and our profitability may be adversely affected. As part of our business strategy, we anticipate opening new schools and new branch campuses of our existing schools throughout the U.S. Establishing new schools and branch campuses poses unique challenges and requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing and advertising expenses, and devote resources that are different than, and in some cases greater than, those required with respect to the operation of our existing schools. We may not be able to identify or successfully pursue suitable expansion opportunities to help maintain or accelerate our current growth rate. We may not be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate a new school or branch campus. Any failure by us to effectively identify, establish and manage the operations of a new school or branch campus could slow our growth and make any newly-established school or branch campus more costly to operate than we had planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. To open a new school or branch campus, we would be required to obtain the appropriate approvals from applicable state and accrediting regulatory agencies, which may be conditioned, delayed or denied in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. Approval by these regulatory agencies may be negatively impacted due to regulatory inquiries or reviews and any adverse publicity relating to such matters. In addition, to 35 be eligible to participate in Title IV Programs, the ED and applicable state and accrediting bodies must certify a new school or branch campus. Our ability to open new schools or new branch campuses of existing schools may be adversely affected by the regulatory matters described in Note 13,” Commitments and Contingencies—Federal Regulatory Matters” of the notes to our consolidated financial statements Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to keep pace with changing market needs and technology. Increasingly, prospective employers of students who graduate from our schools demand that their new employees possess appropriate technological skills and also appropriate “soft” skills, such as communication, critical thinking and teamwork skills. These skills can evolve rapidly in a changing economic and technological environment. Accordingly, it is important for our schools’ educational programs to evolve in response to those economic and technological changes. The expansion of existing programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by current or prospective students or the employers of our graduates. Even if our schools are able to develop acceptable new programs, our schools may not be able to begin offering those new programs as quickly as required by prospective employers or as quickly as our competitors offer similar programs. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, unusually rapid technological changes, or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired, the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer, and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our schools and programs among high school graduates and working adults. The awareness of our schools and the programs that our schools offer among high school graduates and working adults is important to the success of our schools. If our schools are unable to successfully market and advertise their educational programs, our schools’ ability to attract and enroll prospective students in such programs could be adversely affected, and, consequently, our ability to increase revenue or maintain profitability could be impaired. Some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing and advertising our schools and the programs that they offer include, but are not limited to, student or employer dissatisfaction with educational programs and services, diminished access to high school students, and our failure to maintain or expand our brand names or other factors related to our marketing or advertising practices. We compete with a variety of educational institutions, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our student population and revenue could be adversely impacted. The postsecondary education industry is highly fragmented and competitive. Our schools compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities, other proprietary schools, including those that offer online education programs, and alternatives to higher education, such as immediate employment and military service. Some public and private institutions are able to charge lower tuition for courses of study similar to those offered by our schools due, in part, to government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions, and other financial resources not available to proprietary institutions. In addition, some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. An increase in competition could affect the success of our marketing efforts and enable our competitors to recruit prospective students more effectively. Increased competition may also require us to reduce our tuition charges and increase spending for marketing efforts, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our credit agreements limit our ability to take various actions. Our credit agreements limit our ability to take various actions, including paying dividends and disposing of assets. Accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and 36 in the best interests of us and our stockholders. Our credit agreements also require us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. A breach of any covenants contained in our credit agreements could result in an event of default under the agreements and allow the lenders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any indebtedness outstanding thereunder, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Our future operating results and financial conditions would be materially adversely affected if a “change in control” is deemed to occur under our share-based compensation plans. As of December 31, 2007, the most recent date of disclosure required under the Exchange Act, no individual shareholder owned more than 13% of the combined voting power of our then outstanding common stock. However, if any person or entity, including a group, were to acquire additional shares of our common stock such that they would beneficially own 20% or more of the combined voting power of our common stock, a change in control would be deemed to have occurred under our 1998 Employee Incentive Compensation Plan and 1998 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan. In that case, we would be required to recognize substantial share-based compensation expense and an additional liability in an amount equal to the estimated obligation that would be due to plan participants who elected to surrender to us all or part of a share-based award in exchange for cash. The recognition of this additional expense and liability would have a material adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. See Note 16, “Share-Based Compensation” of the notes to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the effects of a change in control under our share-based compensation plans. Nonetheless, there are a number of our stockholders that maintain substantial investments in our common stock, including four stockholders who each own greater than 10% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2007. In addition, we have recently observed an increase in merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions in the for-profit postsecondary education industry. Risk Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially in the future. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control. These factors include: • Changes in the student lending and credit markets; • Our ability to meet or exceed our own forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; • Quarterly variations in our operating results; • Changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; • General conditions in the for-profit, postsecondary education industry, including changes in the ED and state laws and regulations and accreditation standards; • The initiation, pendency or outcome of litigation, regulatory reviews and investigations, and any adverse publicity related thereto; • Changes in our own forecasts or earnings estimates by analysts; • Future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets; • Price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have particularly affected the market prices of many companies in the for-profit, postsecondary education industry in recent periods; • The loss of key personnel; and • General economic conditions. 37 These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent an investor from selling shares of our common stock at or above the price at which such shares were purchased. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 