Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business and operations are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, certain risks and uncertainties. The following risks and other information in this report that is incorporated in this report by reference, including the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, should be carefully considered. These risks are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on may also adversely affect the Company’s business and operation. This Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by all these risk factors. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • Changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance • Volatility of stock market prices and volumes • Rumors or erroneous information • Changes in market valuations of similar companies • Changes in interest rates 29 Table of Contents • New developments in the banking industry • Variations in quarterly or annual operating results • New litigation or changes in existing litigation • Regulatory actions • Changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies Geographical Risk The Company’s main markets are in Greene and Christian counties in southwest Missouri. Since the Company does not have significant presence in other parts of the country, a prolonged economic downturn in these markets could negatively impact the Company. Industry Risk The Company operates in the financial services industry, a rapidly changing environment having numerous competitors including other banks and insurance companies, securities dealers, brokers, trust and investment companies and mortgage bankers. The pace of consolidation among financial service providers is accelerating and there are many new changes in technology, product offerings and regulation. The Company must continue to make investments in its products and delivery systems to stay competitive with the industry as a whole or its financial performance may suffer. Regulatory Risk The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern nearly every aspect of its operations. Changes to these laws could affect the Company’s ability to deliver or expand its services and diminish the value of its business. Interest Rate Risk The Company’s net interest income is the largest source of overall revenue to the Company and is mainly based on the difference between interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rates are beyond the Company’s control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Lending Risk There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. Changes in economic conditions and changes in interest rates among other things could impact borrowers’ capabilities to repay the Company outstanding loans. For a complete discussion of the risk elements of the Company’s loan portfolio, please refer to page 7. 30 Table of Contents Litigation Risk From time to time, the Company is subject to claims and litigation from customers and other individuals. Whether such claims and legal action are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 