RISK FACTORS An investment in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. Investors in our common shares should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information in this annual report. Risks Relating to Our Company Our current strategy may not have the expected results on our profitability. Our strategy aims to provide our customers with a superior shopping experience, delivering a greater variety of quality products and services at a lower price than our competitors. This strategy is based on savings achieved through operational efficiency that are transferable to the customer. We couple this strategy with a focus on expanding our position both in Chile and other markets throughout Latin America. The long-term success of our strategy is subject to significant risks, including the following: · we depend upon high sales volume and we may generate less additional sales volume than expected; · we may fail to achieve desired reductions in selling and administrative expenses; · our competitors may decide to match or undercut some or all of our reduced prices, making it difficult to sustain a sufficient price differential to attract the desired increase in customers; · we may encounter difficulties obtaining additional vendor allowances from suppliers in the expected amounts and within the timeframe we currently anticipate; · we may encounter difficulties expanding our operations due to factors beyond our control, including increased competition and unfavorable macroeconomic, sociopolitical and demographic conditions; and · even if we are successful in implementing our strategy, it may take longer than planned to achieve the desired results. Any one of these factors could adversely affect our current strategy and, consequently, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Our merger with Falabella may not occur or may be set aside. On May 17, 2007, our controlling shareholders (the “D&S Controlling Shareholders”) and the majority of the controlling shareholders of S.A.C.I Falabella (the “Falabella Controlling Shareholders”) entered into an agreement providing for the merger of S.A.C.I Falabella (“Falabella”) with our company. The closing of the merger is subject to certain significant conditions, including, among others, approval from regulatory agencies in Chile. On June 7, 2007, the D&S Controlling Shareholders and the Falabella Controlling Shareholders filed a request for the approval of the merger with the Tribunal de Defensa de la Libre Competencia (Antitrust Court). Although this filing is not mandatory, pursuant to Chilean law, if the Tribunal de Defensa de la Libre Competencia approves the merger, regulatory authorities and third parties will not have the right to challenge the merger if consummated under the same terms in which it was approved. These proceedings will provide all parties involved in the merger, as well as other governmental authorities or third parties with an interest in the merger, including but not limited to the Fiscalía Nacional Económica, an opportunity to present their concerns and views with respect to the merger. Upon the conclusion of this review process, the Tribunal de Defensa de la Libre Competencia will issue a resolution either approving or rejecting the merger. The Tribunal de Defensa de la Libre Competencia may also condition its approval on the implementation of certain measures designed to prevent potential infringements with Chilean antitrust laws, such as the divestiture of or restrictions on certain of the surviving entity’s operations. Based on past proceedings before the Tribunal de Defensa de la Libre Competencia, we expect this review process to be completed in approximately six to nine months after the commencement of the review. 12 The Tribunal de Defensa de la Libre Competencia may take longer than we currently anticipate in concluding its review or may disapprove of the merger or impose costly obligations on us as a condition for the approval of the merger, such as the divestiture of portions of our operations or restrictions on how we operate or market our services, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our merger with S.A.C.I Falabella may be difficult and expensive and may not result in the benefits that we currently expect. Our contemplated merger with S.A.C.I Falabella involves the integration of two large businesses that currently operate independently. The achievement of expected synergies from the combination will require the integration of various aspects of our businesses and that of S.A.C.I Falabella. Our goal in integrating the operations is to increase the revenues and earnings of the combined businesses through cost savings, and, as a combined company, to increase the surviving entity’s ability to satisfy the demands of its customers. In so doing, we may encounter substantial difficulties in integrating our operations and fail to achieve the increased revenues, earnings, cost savings and operational benefits that are expected to result from the merger, and could even incur substantial costs as a result of, among other things: · inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between us and S.A.C.I Falabella and the need to implement, integrate and harmonize various business-specific operating procedures and systems, as well as the financial, accounting, information and other systems of our operations and those of S.A.C.I Falabella; · diversion of management’s attention from their other responsibilities as a result of the need to deal with integration issues; · inability to create synergies in the management of the combined assets of the surviving company; · failure to retain our and S.A.C.I Falabella’s customers and suppliers or resistance from advocacy groups representing such constituencies; · difficulties in achieving full utilization of our and S.A.C.I Falabella’s assets and resources; · inability to complete or satisfy, in a timely manner, certain asset sales or other conditions, in the event such conditions are imposed on us by authorities; and · difficulties in reducing overhead costs, including the combination of call centers and customer service centers. The diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered from integrating our businesses with our and S.A.C.I Falabella’s operations could increase costs or reduce revenues, earnings and operating results of the surviving entity following completion of the merger. For these reasons, we may fail to complete successfully the necessary integration or realize any of the expected benefits. If they are achieved, actual cost savings and operational benefits may be lower than we currently expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we currently expect. Inability to realize the full extent of expected costs, savings and operational benefits, as well as any delays encountered in the transition process, could have an adverse effect on the revenues, level of expenses, operating results and financial condition of the surviving company, which may adversely affect the value of the surviving company’s securities after the completion of the offers. Increased competition may adversely affect our results of operations and sales volume. The supermarket industry in Chile is characterized by growing competition and increasing pressure on profit margins. The number and type of competitors and the degree of competition experienced by individual stores vary by location. Competition occurs on the basis of price, location, quality of products and services, product variety and store conditions. Through our Líder store formats (hypermarkets, compact hypermarkets and supermarkets), we compete across the full spectrum of the supermarket industry in Chile with a number of national hypermarket and supermarket chains, smaller chains and unaffiliated independent food stores. 13 Additionally, there is a trend towards consolidation in the Chilean retail and supermarket industries. Our main Chilean competitor, Cencosud S.A., which owns Jumbo, Santa Isabel, Montecarlo and Las Brisas (the latter two are mostly operated under the Santa Isabel brand), acquired Almacenes Paris in 2005 through a tender offer. As a result of these acquisitions, Cencosud has recently become a stronger competitor in the Chilean market. Similarly, Falabella, the main department and home improvement store chain in Chile, acquired the supermarket chain San Francisco in 2004, thus expanding their operations into the supermarket industry. During 2005, Falabella started opening hypermarkets under the “Tottus” brand. We purchased in January 2004, Carrefour Chile S.A., also participating in the consolidation of the sector. Additionally, we have participated in such consolidation trend from time to time also by taking operating stores in long-term leases from regional chains in certain cities. If these or other competitors are successful in capturing market share, our results of operations or sales volume may be adversely affected. The Chilean retail and supermarket industries may become saturated and prevent us from carrying out our plans for expansion through development and growth. Our sales growth results from increases in sales in existing stores and through the addition of new stores. From 2002 through December 31, 2006, our average annual growth in supermarket floor space has been 12.2% while our average annual growth in sales has been 9.0%. Construction of new stores may have an adverse effect on same store sales of existing stores. Our same store sales decreased by 3.4% in 2006 compared to 2005. If the Chilean retail and supermarket industries continue to expand and become saturated relative to the current purchasing power of the Chilean consumer, it may limit our ability to profitably exploit our existing stores or expand through new store openings. The growth of our credit card operations may expose us to increased credit and financial risk, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our Presto credit card business is a growing segment of our operations. Over the twelve months from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006, we increased our number of accounts in good standing by 5.2% from 1,510,532 to 1,588,852 account holders. From 2005 to 2006, our net revenues derived from credit card financial income increased 42.8% to Ch$94,317 million (unconsolidated figures) or 5.1% of our net revenue after consolidation. Our amounts past-due have increased 79.3% from Ch$10,552 million on December 31, 2005 to Ch$18,924 million on December 31, 2006 and as a percentage of total accounts receivable have increased from 5.5% to 9.3%. On December 31, 2006, we had 1,588,852 accounts in good standing with credit outstanding of Ch$203,842 million (US$382.9 million), and we intend to continue to increase the number of account holders in the near term. Since June 2005, our Presto credit card, issued by our subsidiary Servicios y Administración de Créditos Comerciales Presto S.A., has been operating as what is known in Chile as an “open credit card”, that is, a credit card that may be used for the purchase and financing of purchases from any establishment or business that has previously affiliated with the credit card system. We assume sole responsibility for account approval and credit risk. As a result, we are exposed to increased credit and financial risk, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. These risks include: · Economic Downturns - Our credit card business is affected by general economic conditions beyond our control, including employment levels, consumer confidence and interest rates. A downturn in the Chilean economy may lead to a decrease in credit sales; · Increased Delinquencies and Charge-offs - Subject to our credit standards, we seek to increase the in-store credit available to our customers, particularly to permit the purchase of more expensive, higher-margin durable goods. As a result, our credit card operations accept a significant portion of applicants otherwise rejected by credit card operations administered by local Chilean banks. These customers generally have higher rates of charge-offs and delinquencies and are more adversely affected by downturns in the Chilean economy than customers with better credit profiles; 14 · Inability to Predict Future Charge-offs - The approaches we use to select our customers may not be as effective at predicting future charge-offs due to changes in the economy, which may result in higher incidence of delinquencies among our customers; · Changes in Credit Card Use - A variety of social factors may cause changes in credit card use, including changes in consumer confidence levels, the public’s perception of the use of credit cards, and changing attitudes about incurring debt; and · Increased Regulation - During 2005, Servicios y Administración de Créditos Comerciales Presto S.A. voluntarily requested and obtained the authorization of the Central Bank of Chile and the Chilean Superintendencia de Bancos e Instituciones Financieras (Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions) to issue and operate our Presto credit card as an “open credit card”; that is, such authorization allowed expanding the use of the Presto credit card as a valid payment method with respect to stores and businesses throughout Chile which form part of our network of affiliated businesses or entities. It also made Servicios y Administración de Créditos Comerciales Presto S.A. and the Presto credit card subject to the rules and regulations applicable to such “banking credit card” issuers. These rules and regulations lead to, among other things, higher levels of provisions for payment defaults than those required under our previous policy. Effective as of April 30, 2006, the Chilean Central Bank enacted new rules regulating non-banking credit card issuers and operators, which were further developed and complemented by new regulation issued by the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions in May 2006, as amended from time to time. Although new regulation issued by the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions is substantially different regarding regulated non-banking credit cards issuers and operators, it remains largely unaltered for what banking credit cards relate to. As Servicios y Administración de Créditos Comerciales Presto S.A. already fulfilled the highest level of obligations and requirements imposed by the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions, equalizing those applicable to banking credit cards, therefore, new regulations, however, do not significantly affect the issuance and operation of our Presto credit card. See “Information on the Company―Regulation”. If we are unable to access capital markets in the future, our financial condition may be adversely affected. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations or obtain sufficient funds from external sources to fund our capital expenditure requirements. Our ability to access financial markets in sufficient amounts and at acceptable costs to finance our operations and fund our future capital expenditures will depend to some degree on prevailing capital and financial market conditions over which we have no control. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to obtain such financing could cause us to delay or abandon some or all of our planned capital expenditures, which, in turn, could adversely affect our competitive position, financial condition, cash flows and prospects. A change in antitrust law, regulation or regulatory oversight in Chile could require that we take certain compliance measures including the incurrence of significant incremental expenses which could adversely impact our ability to expand our business. Chile has antitrust laws that limit the abuse of market share by a company in any particular industry. In the past several years, as a result of growing pressure from consumer advocacy groups, business organizations and other organizations, the Fiscalía Nacional Económic (National Economic Prosecutor) and the Tribunal de Defensa de la Libre Competencia (Antitrust Court), have tightened the regulation and oversight of the activities of retailers with large market share such as ourselves. On August 18, 2006, the Fiscalía Nacional Económica filed a lawsuit against us and Cencosud S.A., our principal competitor, attempting to force both companies to consult with the Tribunal de Defensa de la Libre Competencia regarding any future supermarket acquisitions or similar transactions. The lawsuit also sought to force us to enter into written agreements with our supermarket suppliers. On December 15, 2006, we entered into a settlement agreement with the Fiscalía Nacional Económica, which was sanctioned by the Tribunal de Defensa de la Libre Competencia on January 17, 2007 that put an end to this lawsuit. This agreement only affects us and, as such, the lawsuit against Cencosud S.A continues. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, we have agreed to notify the Fiscalía Nacional Económica of any future acquisitions, mergers or similar transactions involving supermarkets in Chile at least 30 days prior to such acquisition, merger or transaction. We must also prepare and abide by a set of self-imposed regulations concerning our relationships with domestic suppliers and our procurement policies. Among other things, such regulations should establish the terms, conditions and fees relating to our agreements with suppliers, the manner in which we pay such suppliers and the mechanisms for amicable resolution of disputes between these suppliers and our company. In May of 2007, we enacted a set of internal guidelines that comply with our agreement with the Fiscalía Nacional Económica. These guidelines, known as Términos y Condiciones Generales de Aprovisionamiento (General Supply Terms and Conditions), are publicly available on our website. For more information, see Item 4 — “Information on the Company—Regulation”. 15 Despite our agreement with the Físcal Nacional Economico and our belief that our policies comply with applicable laws and regulations, we remain subject to regulatory scrutiny and Chilean authorities may pass stricter regulations in the future affecting our procurement policies and our ability to engage in strategic transactions. Such changes may constrain our ability to achieve optimal pricing based on our market leading market share, which may adversely affect the success of our business. The default on the payment of the deferred amount of the purchase price for Ekono-Argentina may adversely affect our results of operations. We sold our former Argentine subsidiary, Ekono-Argentina, to Disco S.A. in December of 1999 for US$150 million. However, only US$60 million of the purchase price was paid in May 2000, with the balance of US$90 million payable in May 2003 and guaranteed by the Netherlands Antilles company “Disco-Ahold International Holdings N.V.”, which we refer to as Ahold and is a subsidiary of Royal Ahold N.V. We were informed in December 2002 that Disco S.A. would not pay us the entire US$150 million amount in dollars, but would instead convert the US$90 million balance owed to us into Argentine pesos under Argentine foreign currency convertibility regulations. On May 2, 2003, Disco S.A. made payment of A$126 million. After approval by the Central Bank of Argentina in August 2003, this amount plus accrued interest was remitted to us based on an effective exchange rate of A$3.00 to US$1.00 and totaled US$42 million. We are currently involved in various legal challenges to recover the remaining amounts due in the Netherlands and Argentina. If we are unable to recover, or if we determine it is probable that we will be unable to recover, the remaining balance owed to us (currently US$47.5 million), plus interest and costs, we may be required to write off the amount in dispute, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations for that period. For more information, see Item 4 — “Information on the Company—Legal Proceedings”. Our controlling shareholders own a substantial majority of our share capital and exercise significant influence over board decisions. Control of our company is vested in a series of companies beneficially owned or controlled by our controlling shareholders, Messrs. Felipe Ibáñez Scott and Nicolás Ibáñez Scott. Together, these companies and our controlling shareholders controlled 63.58% of our outstanding capital stock at December 31, 2006. Although no shareholders’ agreement or other agreement relating to the voting of our share capital currently exists between Messrs. Felipe Ibáñez Scott and Nicolás Ibáñez Scott, they have historically voted together in the decisions facing our company and are in a position to direct our management and to determine the result of substantially all matters to be decided by a shareholders’ vote, including: · the election of a majority of the members of our board of directors; · the determination of the amount of dividends we distribute (subject to the legally mandated minimum of 30% of net income); · the acquisition of assets; · the disposition of assets not exceeding 50% of the company’s assets; and 16 · future issuance of debt securities not convertible into stock. In addition, if the depositary does not receive voting instructions from a holder of ADSs on or before the date set by the depositary, such holder will be deemed to have instructed the depositary to give a discretionary proxy with full power of substitution to the president of our board of directors, or to a person designated by the president of our board of directors, to vote such shares on any such matter described under Item 10 — “Additional Information — Other Limitations”. For more information on the Depositary Agreement, see Item 10 — “Additional Information—The Deposit Agreement”. The decision of our controlling shareholders to dispose of a significant number of their shares could adversely affect the trading price of our shares and ADSs. The disposition by the companies controlled by our controlling shareholders of a significant number of the shares of our company they hold, or the perception that such a disposition might occur, could adversely affect the trading price of our shares and ADSs. If a significant disposition were to occur, our controlling shareholders may not continue to own a controlling percentage of our capital stock and an actual or potential reduction in their ownership percentage may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Increased labor and employment regulation may adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are subject to extensive Chilean labor and employment regulation. Recent labor reforms in Chile have created new obligations and responsibilities for employers. In October, 2006, the Ley de Subcontratación (Subcontracting Law) was passed amending the Labor Code, making companies potentially jointly and severally liable for certain employment-related liabilities of their contractors and subcontractors. While we believe this reforms should not materially affect our operations, we cannot predict the effect of future reforms or regulations. Any tightening of labor and employment regulations may result in increased liabilities and costs and could have an adverse result on our business and results of operations. Our management has identified a material weakness and significant deficiencies in our internal controls. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria established in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this evaluation, our management has concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2006 as a result of a material weakness related to our internal controls over the stock integrity in our distribution center and significant deficiencies regarding the preparation and analysis of the U.S. GAAP financial statement reconciliation. For more information, see Item 15T — “Control and Procedures”. As reflected in the unqualified audit report included with this Annual Report, we believe our consolidated financial statements included herein present fairly, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. Nonetheless, as part of our commitment to the best practices in corporate governance and financial reporting, management is actively implementing remedial measures addressing the deficiencies that were identified in our review. For more information, see Item 15T — “Control and Procedures”. These remedial measures may not be sufficient or the measures implemented may not maintain adequate controls over our financial process and reporting in the future. Any failure to remedy such material weaknesses or deficiencies or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. If we fail to remedy these deficiencies, inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our shares of common stock and our ADSs. 17 Risks Relating to Chile Our growth and profitability depend on the level of economic activity in Chile and other emerging markets. At December 31, 2006, all of our assets and revenues were located or generated in Chile. Supermarket sales show a high degree of correlation with the economic situation prevailing in the relevant market. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent to a significant extent upon economic conditions prevailing in Chile. Chilean economic conditions can be adversely affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including: · the economic or other policies of the Chilean government, which has a substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector; · other political or economic developments in or affecting Chile; · regulatory changes or administrative practices of Chilean authorities; · inflation and government policies to combat inflation; · currency exchange movements; · global and regional economic conditions; · copper prices, which influence the profitability of Chile’s copper exports; and · other factors. Our financial condition and results of operations to some extent also depend on the level of economic activity in both Latin American and other countries, especially the United States and certain nations in Asia. In addition, although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country may affect the securities of issuers in other countries, including Chile. For example, adverse developments in other developing or emerging market countries may lead to decreased investor interest in investing in Chile or in the securities of Chilean companies. Currency fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our shares and ADSs. The Chilean government’s economic policies and any future changes in the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar could affect the dollar value of our common stock and our ADSs. The peso has been subject to large devaluations in the past and, more recently, periods of significant appreciation, and could be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. In the period from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006, the value of the Chilean peso relative to the U.S. dollar increased by 3.9% in nominal terms. The Observed Exchange Rate on May 31, 2007 was Ch$525.10 = US$1.00. Our results of operations may be affected to some extent, though not materially, by fluctuations in the exchange rates between the peso and the U.S. dollar. In the event of a devaluation of the Chilean peso, our financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to meet obligations in foreign currencies, could be adversely affected. The Chilean government’s economic policies and future fluctuations in the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our operating results and the dollar value of an investor’s return on an investment in the ADSs. Chilean trading in the shares of our common stock that underlie our ADSs is conducted in pesos. Cash distributions with respect to shares of our common stock will be received in Chilean pesos by the depositary and converted by the depositary into U.S. dollars at the then-prevailing exchange rate for the purpose of making payments in respect of our ADSs. If the value of the Chilean peso falls relative to the U.S. dollar, the value of our ADSs and any distributions to be received from the depositary would be adversely affected. In addition, the depositary will incur customary currency conversion costs (to be borne by the holders of our ADSs) in connection with the conversion and subsequent distribution of dividends or other payments. 18 During 2006, the price of copper averaged US$3.0491 per pound. The average price for the three years ending on December 31, 2006 was US$2.0056 per pound. Since copper production accounts for 21.6% of Chile’s GDP (for the year 2006), the increase in price that copper has undergone during 2006 and continues to undergo as of the date of this report has put substantial pressure on the exchange rate between the Chilean peso and the U.S. dollar, leading to an appreciation of the peso. Such appreciation could have an impact on the value of our ADSs and any distributions to be received from the depositary. If the appreciation of the Chilean peso persists, the Chilean Central Bank may or may not deem such peso appreciation as a special and qualified case that justifies its intervention in the exchange market, whether through direct or indirect measures. The Chilean market for our shares may be volatile and illiquid and such volatility and lack of liquidity may have adverse effects on the market for our ADSs. The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. The companies listed on the Santiago Stock Exchange, which is Chile’s principal exchange, had an aggregate equity market capitalization of approximately Ch$92,907,288 million (US$174,510 million) at December 31, 2006 and an aggregate average monthly trading volume of approximately US$2,412 million for 2006. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization at December 31, 2006, represented approximately 48.3% of the Santiago Stock Exchange’s aggregate market capitalization. Daily share trading volumes on the Santiago Stock Exchange are on average substantially lower than those on the principal national securities exchanges in the United States. For 2006, approximately 19.9% of the securities listed and traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange traded on 90% or more of the trading days. The lack of liquidity owing, in part, to the relatively small size of the Chilean securities markets may have a significant effect on the trading prices of our shares. Because the market for our ADSs depends, in part, on investors’ perception of the value of our underlying shares, this lack of liquidity for our shares in Chile may have a significant effect on the trading prices of our ADSs. In addition, the Chilean securities markets may be affected by developments in other emerging markets, particularly other countries in Latin America. The depth and liquidity of the market for our shares and the potential impact of developments in other emerging markets may cause the trading prices of our ADSs to fluctuate significantly. Chile imposes controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments that may affect your investment in, and earnings from, our ADSs. Equity investments in Chile by non-Chilean residents generally are subject to various exchange control regulations that restrict the repatriation of investments and earnings from investments. The ADS facility, however, is the subject of a Foreign Investment Contract among the depositary, us and the Chilean Central Bank, which grants the depositary and the holders of ADSs access to Chile’s Mercado Cambiario Formal, or Formal Exchange Market. Pursuant to current Chilean law, the Foreign Investment Contract may not be amended unilaterally by the Central Bank. Additionally, there are judicial precedents (although not binding on future judicial decisions) indicating that the Foreign Investment Contract may not be abrogated by future legislative changes. However, additional Chilean restrictions applicable to the holders of ADSs, to the disposition of underlying shares of common stock or to the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition may be imposed in the future, and the duration or implications of any such restrictions that might be imposed are difficult to predict. If, for any reason, including changes in the Foreign Investment Contract or Chilean law, the depositary were unable to convert pesos to U.S. dollars, investors might receive dividends or other distributions in pesos. Transferees of shares withdrawn from the ADS facility will not be entitled to access the Formal Exchange Market unless the withdrawn shares are redeposited with the depositary. If transferees are unable to access the Formal Exchange Market, they may be unable to convert peso amounts to dollars in connection with the sale of these shares. 19 Cash and non-cash dividends paid by us with respect to ADSs held by a foreign (non-Chilean) holder would be subject to a 35.0% Chilean withholding tax, which is withheld by our company. Stock dividends are not subject to Chilean taxation. Chile has different corporate disclosure, governance and accounting standards than those you may be familiar with in the United States. The securities laws of Chile which govern publicly listed companies, such as our company, impose disclosure requirements that are more limited than those in the United States in certain important respects. As a foreign private issuer, we are required to comply with most of the disclosure requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, but we are also exempt from many of the corporate governance standards the New York Stock Exchange applies to issuers that are U.S. companies. For a description of the main differences between Chilean corporate governance practices and the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, see Item 10 — “Additional Information—New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and Chilean Corporate Governance Requirements”. In addition, although Chilean law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, the Chilean securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets. There are also important differences between Chilean and U.S. accounting and financial reporting standards. As a result, Chilean financial statements and reported earnings generally differ from those reported based on U.S. accounting and reporting standards. See Note 25 to our audited financial statements for a description of the principal differences between Chilean GAAP and U.S. GAAP as they relate to us and a reconciliation to U.S. GAAP of net income for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006 and shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2005 and 2006 reported under Chilean GAAP. From 2009, Chile will adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) which also differ in important respects from U.S. accounting and financial reporting standards. Pursuant to the Chilean Securities Market Law, direct or indirect acquisitions of shares resulting in the taking of control over a Chilean listed corporation must be conducted through a public tender offer in Chile. Unlike other jurisdictions, tender offers in Chile are not generally triggered by the acquisition of a fixed threshold of the target company’s shares, but because of the acquisition of the target company’s control and the payment of a premium for such control. A Chilean public tender offer will not be mandatory if an exemption is applicable. Such exemptions include acquisitions that are made: (i) through a capital increase of the target company; (ii) through a sale of stock by the controlling shareholder, provided the price paid is not substantially higher than market price (usually not more than 10% over the average market price during a period of time determined by the law); or (iii) through a merger with the target company. In addition, if the control of the target company is gained by any means other than the acquisition of shares—for example, a proxy campaign or a shareholders agreement that allows the parties thereof to control a stake larger than the shareholding of the existing controlling person—the operation needs not be accomplished through a public tender offer. Therefore, the controlling shareholders of a Chilean open stock corporation can sell their controlling shares through a public tender offer or pursuant to a legal exemption. Pursuant to Law No. 19,705, which amended the Chilean Companies Law and was enacted in December 2000, the controlling shareholders of a Chilean open stock corporation can only sell their controlling shares through a tender offer issued to all shareholders in which the bidder would have to buy all the offered shares up to the percentage determined by it, when the price paid is substantially higher than the market price (that is, when the price paid was higher than the average market price of a period starting 90 days before the proposed transaction and ending 30 days before such proposed transaction, plus 10%). Minority shareholders of our company may nevertheless still have fewer and less well-defined rights under Chilean law and our Bylaws than they might have as minority shareholders of a U.S. corporation. 20 Item 