Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business There are a number of business risks and uncertainties that affect our operations and therefore could cause future results to differ from past performance or expected results. These risks or uncertainties may include, but are not limited to the following factors: Our business is dependent on demand for and supply of single-family homes which is influenced by changes in the overall condition of the U.S. economy, including interest rates, consumer confidence, job formation and other important factors. The residential building products and construction services industry is highly dependent on demand for single-family homes, which is influenced by several factors. These factors include economic changes nationally and locally, mortgage and other interest rates, consumer confidence, job formation, demographic trends, inflation, building permit activity and availability of credit as well as other factors. The construction of new homes may experience decline due to over supply of home inventory levels, lack of availability of credit, the unavailability and unaffordability of land in attractive metropolitan areas, shortages of qualified tradespeople, shortages of materials and regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements. Also, changes to housing patterns may occur, such as an increase in consumer demand for urban living rather than single-family suburban neighborhoods. All of these factors could limit demand for home construction and may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There are risks associated with our business model. Our business model seeks the strategic growth of construction services and distribution of building products in an effort to provide a comprehensive solution to builders. Providing these services and products includes the risks of availability and cost of qualified labor and claims for construction defects, product liability and workers’ compensation as well as the timely sourcing and availability of building products. Additionally, there is no guarantee that our efforts to offer these comprehensive solutions will continue to be accepted by the marketplace. An inability to implement and maintain cost structures that align with revenue trends may have an adverse impact on our operating results. When we experience slower periods of homebuilding activity, acquire new businesses or expand existing operations, we may experience inefficiencies in our cost structures. Our evaluation of and changes to expenses in response to declining sales may not be timely, leading to higher costs and lower returns on sales. Compliance with credit facility covenants is dependent on operating performance and changes in interest expense may adversely impact our operating results. Our ability to comply with our credit facility covenants depends on our operating performance. Reduced operating performance, organizational changes and other expenses may result in failure to comply with the financial covenants and adversely affect our ability to finance operations or capital needs and could create a default and cause all amounts borrowed to become due and payable immediately. Additionally, the amended credit facility restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, repurchase shares, enter into mergers or acquisitions, use proceeds from equity offerings, make capital expenditures and sell assets. 12 Increases in interest rates and the credit risk premium assigned to us as well as changes in the amount of debt will increase our interest expense. Higher interest expense may adversely impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows for operating needs. Changes in the business models of customers may limit our ability to provide building products and construction services required by our customers. As the business models of our customers evolve, our existing building products and construction service offerings may not meet the needs of certain homebuilders. Homebuilders may decide to no longer outsource construction services or may purchase construction services and building products from separate suppliers. If we do not timely assess shifts in customer expectations, preferences and demands, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. The integration of acquired businesses may not result in anticipated cost savings and revenue synergies being fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected. Our past growth has been largely due to acquisitions. As we manage our business through the current industry downturn, we do not intend to pursue acquisitions and our focus will be on enhancing existing operations. The integration of previously acquired businesses may not result in anticipated cost savings and revenue synergies being fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected. The management and acquisition of businesses involves substantial risks including: · the uncertainty that an acquired business will achieve anticipated operating results; · significant expenses to integrate; · diversion of management attention; · departure of key personnel from the acquired business; · effectively managing entrepreneurial spirit and decision-making; · integration of different information systems; · managing new construction service trades; · unanticipated costs and exposure to unforeseen liabilities; and · impairment of assets. Losses of and changes in customers may have an adverse impact on our operating results. We are exposed to the risk of loss arising from the failure of a customer. Although amounts due from our customers are typically secured by liens on their construction projects, in the event a customer cannot meet its payment obligations to us, there is a risk that the value of their underlying project will not be sufficient to recover the amounts owed to us. Estimated credit losses are considered in the valuation of amounts due from our customers, however the entire carrying amount is generally at risk. While economic and regulatory changes seek to reduce excess unsold home inventory, stabilize housing affordability and eliminate overly negative perceptions of the future of the housing market, we may experience losses of and changes in customers. Our 5 largest customers represent 10% of sales for BMC West and 35% of sales for SelectBuild. Additionally, diversification of our sales mix to more products and services for multi-family and light commercial projects may result in changes to our customer mix. The loss of one or more of our significant customers and changes in customer mix may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our success is dependent upon the availability of and our ability to attract, train and retain qualified individuals. Competition for employees is especially intense in both building products distribution and construction services. In markets with strong housing demand, we may experience shortages in qualified labor and key personnel, which may limit our ability to complete contracts as well as obtain additional contracts with builders. Additional employment and eligibility requirements as well as enhanced and perceived enforcement from state and federal authorities could also limit the availability of qualified labor. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in recruiting and retaining qualified employees in the future. 13 Our operating results are affected by fluctuations in our costs and the availability of sourcing channels for commodity wood products, concrete, steel and other building products. Prices of commodity wood products, concrete, steel and other building products are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in product prices may affect sales as well as margins due to a limited ability to pass on short-term price changes. We do not use derivative financial instruments to hedge commodity price changes. We may experience shortages of building products as a result of unexpected demand or production difficulties as well as transportation limitations. Any disruption in our sources of supply for key building products could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our business is subject to intense competition. We experience competition across all markets for our building products and construction services. Recently, there has been increased consolidation within the building materials distribution and construction services industry. As the industry consolidates, other building materials distributors, including large retail distributors focused on consumers, may aggressively pursue production homebuilders as well as other professional builders and contractors. These competitive factors may lead to pricing pressures and cause reductions in sales or margins as well as increases in operating costs. Loss of significant market share due to competition could result in the closure of facilities. Weather conditions, including natural catastrophic events, may cause our operating results to fluctuate each quarter. Our first and fourth quarters historically have been, and are expected to continue to be, adversely affected by weather conditions in some of our markets, causing decreases in operating results due to slower homebuilding activity. In addition, natural catastrophic events may cause our operating results to fluctuate. The nature of our business exposes us to construction defect and product liability claims as well as other legal proceedings. We are involved in construction defect and product liability claims relating to our various construction trades and the products we distribute and manufacture. We also operate a large fleet of trucks and other vehicles and therefore face some risk of accidents. Although we believe we maintain adequate insurance, we may not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or such insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Current or future claims may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may be adversely affected by disruptions in our information systems. Our operations are dependent upon information for decision-making and the related information systems. A substantial disruption in our information systems for a prolonged period could result in delays in our services and products and adversely affect our ability to complete contracts and fulfill customer demands. Such delays, problems or costs may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 14 Actual and perceived vulnerabilities as a result of terrorist activities and armed conflict may adversely impact consumer confidence and our business. Instability in the economy and financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may impact consumer confidence and result in a decrease in homebuilding in our markets. Terrorist attacks may also directly impact our ability to maintain operations and services and may have an adverse effect on our business. Federal, state and other regulations could impose substantial costs and/or restrictions on our business. We are subject to various federal, state, local and other regulations, including among other things, work safety regulations promulgated by the Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration, transportation regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation, employment regulations promulgated by the Department of Homeland Security and the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and state and local zoning restrictions and building codes. More burdensome regulatory requirements in these or other areas may increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Numerous other matters of a local and regional scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive or regulatory nature may have an adverse impact on our business. Many factors shape the homebuilding industry and our business. In addition to the factors previously cited, there are other matters of a local and regional scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive or regulatory nature that may have an adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Shares Risks related to our shares may include, however are not limited to: Our share price may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for shareholders to trade our shares when desired or at attractive prices. The market price of our shares is subject to significant changes as a result of our operating performance and the other factors discussed above as well as perceptions and events that are beyond our control. Price and trading volume fluctuations for our shares may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. Additionally, our share price could fluctuate based on the expectations and performance of other publicly traded companies in the construction services and building products distribution industry. Anti-takeover defenses in our governing documents and certain provisions under Delaware law could prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our shares. Our governing documents and certain provisions of Delaware law that apply to us could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. For example, our certificate of incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue, at any time and without shareholder approval, preferred shares with such terms as it may determine. Also, our certificate of incorporation provides that during certain types of transactions that could affect control, including the acquisition of 15% or more of our common shares, affiliates of any party to the transaction and persons having a material financial interest in the transaction may not be elected to the Board of Directors. These provisions and others could delay, prevent or allow our Board of Directors to resist an acquisition of our company, even if a majority of our shareholders favored the proposed transaction. 15 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 16 ITEM 