Item 1A. Risk Factors We regularly identify, monitor and assess our exposure to risk and seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our energy services and delivery businesses. However, there are risks that are beyond our control or that cannot be limited cost-effectively or that may occur despite our risk mitigation efforts. The risk factors discussed below could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operation or cash flows. I-8 There can be no assurance that Iberdrola's acquisition of the company will be completed. Consummation of the proposed Merger is subject to satisfaction of various closing conditions, including obtaining the approvals or consents from a number of United States federal and state public utility, antitrust and other regulatory authorities described in the Merger Agreement. To date, all regulatory approvals have been received except approval from the NYPSC. The NYPSC staff has taken the its position that the Merger does not satisfy the standard under the New York Public Service Law for approval. We cannot predict whether NYPSC authorization will be obtained on satisfactory terms or the timing of that approval. If the Merger is not completed and the Merger Agreement is terminated, the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of our shares reflects an assumption as to the completion of the Merger. While the Merger is pending, we have agreed to operate our businesses in the ordinary course and certain significant business actions or changes from our ordinary course would require the consent of Iberdrola. In addition, until consummation (or termination) of the Merger, we are prohibited from declaring and paying dividends in excess of the current dividend rate of $0.31 per share per quarter. Our regulated utilities are subject to substantial governmental regulation on the federal, state and local levels. On the federal level, the FERC regulates our utilities' transmission rates, affiliate transactions, the issuance of certain short-term debt securities by our electric utilities and certain other aspects of our utilities' businesses. State commissions regulate the rates, terms and conditions of service, various business practices and transactions, financings, and transactions between the utilities and affiliates. Local regulation affects the siting of our transmission and distribution facilities and our ability to make repairs to such facilities. Our allowed rates of return, rate structures, operation and construction of facilities, rates of depreciation and amortization, and recovery of costs (including exogenous costs such as storm-related expenses), are all determined by the regulatory process. The timing and adequacy of regulatory relief directly affect our results of operation and cash flows. Furthermore, compliance with regulatory requirements may result in substantial costs in our operations tha t may not be recovered. We cannot predict the effect that any future changes or revisions to laws and regulations affecting the utility industry may have on our financial position, results of operation or cash flows. We are a holding company whose material assets are the stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, we conduct all of our operations through those subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and to pay principal and accrued interest on our debt depends upon our receipt of dividends from our principal subsidiaries. Payments to us by those subsidiaries depend, in turn, upon their results of operation and cash flows, which are subject to the risk factors discussed in this section. The ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us is also affected by the level of their indebtedness, and the restrictions on payments to us imposed under the terms of such indebtedness. Our natural gas companies may be affected by various factors that could limit their ability to obtain natural gas supplies. Supply and demand factors including hurricanes or other natural disasters could affect our future ability to obtain natural gas supplies. Increases in demand and lower supplies can result in higher natural gas prices. While higher costs are generally passed on to customers pursuant to natural gas adjustment clauses, and therefore do not pose a direct risk to our earnings, we are unable to predict what effect increases in natural gas prices may have on our customers' energy consumption or ability to pay. I-9 Transmission projects are subject to regulations and other factors beyond our control. Our electric utility companies have substantial transmission capital investment programs including proposed transmission projects in Maine that could require investment in excess of $1 billion. The transmission projects are expected to increase reliability, meet new load growth requirements and interconnect with new generation, including renewable generation. The regulatory approval process for transmission projects is extensive and we may not be able to obtain the approvals required for these projects. Various factors beyond our control, including an increase in the cost of materials or labor, may increase the cost of completing construction projects and may delay construction. Our new transmission projects are subject to the effects of new legislation, regulation and regional interpretations of applicable laws and regulations. Any changes to those laws and regulations may increase the costs or timing of our transmission projects. The FERC has jurisdiction over transmission expansion and generation interconnection. The FERC has issued several orders regarding transmission expansion and generation interconnection cost allocation. Changes to the rules and regulations concerning transmission expansion and generation cost allocations may affect our future transmission rates. RTOs and independent system operators now oversee wholesale transmission services in NYSEG's, RG&E's, and CMP's service territories and between regions. Our transmission facilities are operated by and subject to the rules and regulations of the NYISO and ISO-NE. Changes to those rules and regulations could cause us to incur additional expenses to maintain our facilities. Our ability to provide energy delivery and commodity services depends on the operations and facilities of third parties. Third party facilities include independent system operators, electric generators from whom we purchase electricity, and natural gas pipeline operators from whom we receive shipments of natural gas. The loss of use or destruction of our facilities or the facilities of third parties that are used in providing our services, or with which our electric or natural gas facilities are interconnected, due to extreme weather conditions, breakdowns, war, acts of terrorism or other occurrences, could greatly reduce potential earnings and cash flows and increase our costs of repairs and/or replacement of assets. While we carry property insurance to protect certain assets and have regulatory agreements that provide for the recovery of losses for such incidents, our losses may not be fully recoverable through insurance or customer rates. The demand for our services is directly affected by weather conditions. The demand for our services, especially our natural gas delivery service, is directly affected by weather conditions. Milder winter months or cooler summer months could greatly reduce our earnings and cash flows. Loss of revenue due to power outages in severe weather could also reduce our earnings or require us to defer some costs for future recovery, thus reducing our cash flow. While our natural gas distribution companies mitigate the risk of warmer winter weather through weather normalization clauses or weather insurance, and we have historically been able to defer major storm costs for future recovery, we may not always be able to fully recover all lost revenues or increased expenses. I-10 We use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage our commodity and financial market risks. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of those contracts. We also bear the risk of a counterparty failing to perform. While we employ prudent credit policies and obtain collateral where appropriate, counterparty credit exposure cannot be eliminated, particularly in volatile energy markets. Our ability to hedge our commodity market risk depends on our ability to accurately forecast demand in future periods. Because of changes in weather and customer demand from period to period, we may hedge amounts that are greater or less than our actual commodity deliveries. Such differences may lead to financial gains or losses and, if the differences exceed certain levels, could result in our hedges becoming ineffective under accounting guidance. Gains or losses on ineffective hedges are marked-to-market on our income statement without reference to our underlying sale of the commodity. Prices for electricity and natural gas are subject to volatility in response to changes in supply and other market conditions. We pass commodity price increases on to electricity customers who receive default or variable price supply service and to all natural gas customers. We have a comprehensive hedging program in place to mitigate the price risk for the load requirements of electricity customers who choose a fixed price option under NYSEG's and RG&E's current commodity option programs. Higher prices that are passed on to customers can lead to higher bad debt expense and customer conservation resulting in reduced demand. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Any fluctuations in the performance of those markets, as well as changes in interest rates, could increase our funding requirements for pension and postretirement benefit obligations and cause us to recognize increased expense. In addition, the cost to implement regulatory requirements and potential revisions to accounting standards could affect our financial position, results of operation or cash flow. Our business follows the economic cycle of the customers in the regions that we serve. A falling, slow or sluggish economy and reduced demand for electricity and/or natural gas in the areas in which we do business - through forced temporary plant shutdowns, closing operations or slow economic growth - would reduce our earnings potential. We are subject to extensive federal and state environmental regulation. Our subsidiaries' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations that monitor, among other things, emission allowances, pollution controls, maintenance, site remediation, equipment upgrades and management of hazardous waste. Various governmental agencies require us to obtain environmental licenses, permits, inspections and approvals. Compliance with environmental laws and requirements could impose significant costs, reduce cash flows and result in plant shutdowns. I-11 Our ability and/or cost to access capital could be negatively affected by changes in our financial position, results of operation or cash flows. If any of our utility subsidiaries' credit ratings were downgraded, our ability to access the capital markets, including the commercial paper markets, could be adversely affected and our borrowing costs would increase. Some factors that affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. A scenario that could cause a subsidiary's debt as a component of total capitalization to increase would be the need to borrow money to pay for unexpected repairs to its transmission and/or distribution systems due to a catastrophic event. The application of our critical accounting policies reflects complex judgments and estimates. Those policies include industry-specific accounting standards applicable to our rate-regulated utilities, accounting for goodwill, pension and other postretirement benefit plans, unbilled revenue and allowance for doubtful accounts. The adoption of new accounting standards, changes to current accounting standards or interpretations of such standards may materially affect our financial position, results of operation or cash flows. The NYPSC staff has raised certain issues with regard to NYSEG's and RG&E's earnings sharing calculations. The NYPSC staff in its testimony in the Merger proceeding has alleged that NYSEG did not properly compute the amount due to customers under the electric earnings sharing mechanism (ESM) in NYSEG's electric rate plan that was in effect from 2002 through 2006. The staff claimed that its preliminary analysis shows an additional $67 million, including interest, should have been allocated to customers. The staff indicated that its analysis would be completed no later than NYSEG's next electric rate case. NYSEG vigorously disputes staff's claim. For each year 2002 through 2006 NYSEG made annual compliance filings, as required by the NYPSC. The NYPSC staff has never taken exception to those filings, including during the litigated rate proceeding that resulted in the NYPSC August 2006 rate order. NYSEG is unable to predict when or how the issue will be resolved. The staff also raised issues in the Merger proceeding with regard to the ESM under the RG&E electric rate plan currently in effect, but has not completed its analysis. RG&E believes that it has been properly calculating the amount due to customers in its annual compliance filings since 2004, but cannot predict how the matter will be resolved. Current uncertainty in the auction rate securities markets is having a negative effect on both outstanding debt and investments. NYSEG and RG&E have issued $776 million of tax-exempt pollution control notes, $518 million of which have rates that are reset periodically through an auction process that occurs every 7 days for $416 million and every 35 days for the remaining $102 million. The principal and interest on these notes are insured. The investors' source of liquidity on these notes is the auction market itself. As the financial strength of bond insurers has been called into question, due in part to their exposure to rising mortgage default rates, investors have reacted by withdrawing from the market, thereby significantly reducing market liquidity and resulting in higher and more volatile interest rates. More recently, as the market became illiquid and broker-dealers withdrew their capital support, an increasing percentage of the auctions, including NYSEG and RG&E auctions, have failed to receive sufficient bids to set new interest rates. In such instances, the issuer is obligated to pay a formulaic fail ure rate until sufficient bids are received at a scheduled auction. For NYSEG and RG&E, the interest rates resulting from I-12 failed auctions are a function of current short-term money market rates multiplied by a factor, ranging from 175% to 300%, based on the rating of the applicable bond insurer. To date, failed auction rates for NYSEG and RG&E have ranged from 3.3% to 10.5%. These rates are significantly higher than rates paid in previous auctions. Continued and prolonged illiquidity in the auction rate market could significantly increase our interest costs. We have also invested in auction rate securities. A prolonged disruption in that market could result in a revaluation of those investments, which we have traditionally carried at par because they have been readily convertible to cash. We have reduced our exposure to those securities to $25 million at February 27, 2008, but cannot predict the effect of continued instability in the auction rate market on the valuation of those investments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 