Risk Factors We wish to caution readers that the following important factors, and those important factors described in other reports submitted to, or filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission, among other factors, could affect our actual results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf and that such factors may adversely affect our business and financial status and therefore the value of your investment: Risks Relating to Our Business Since we are dependent on the highly cyclical semiconductor and microelectronics industries, which have experienced significant and sometimes prolonged downturns, our revenues, earnings and margins may fluctuate significantly. Our semiconductor foundry business is affected by market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor and microelectronics industries. Most of our customers operate in these industries. Variations in order levels from our customers result in volatility in our revenues and earnings. From time to time, the semiconductor and microelectronics industries have experienced significant, and sometimes prolonged, downturns. Because our business is, and will continue to be, dependent on the requirements of semiconductor and microelectronics companies for our services, downturns in the general semiconductor and microelectronics industries lead to reduced demand for overall semiconductor foundry services worldwide, including our services. If we cannot take appropriate actions such as reducing our costs to sufficiently offset declines in demand, our revenues, margin and earnings will suffer during downturns. Overcapacity in the semiconductor industry may reduce our revenues, earnings and margins. The prices we can charge our customers for our services are significantly dependent on the overall worldwide supply of integrated circuits and semiconductor products, which is outside of our control. In a period of aggressive pricing competition, industry-wide overcapacity or technology saturation, we may have to lower the prices we charge our customers for our services and/or we may have to operate at significantly less than full capacity. Such actions could reduce our margin and weaken our financial condition and results of operations. For example, due to the decreased annualized demand for semiconductors in 2001 and 2002, our average capacity utilization rate decreased to 51% during 2001, and 73% during 2002 as compared with 106% during 2000. Decreases in demand and average selling prices for products that contain semiconductors may adversely affect demand for our products and may result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. A vast majority of our sales revenue is derived from customers who use our products in personal computers, communications devices and consumer electronics. Any significant decrease in the demand for these products may decrease the demand for overall global semiconductor foundry services, including our products and may adversely affect our revenues. In addition, the historical and current trend of declining average selling prices of end use applications places pressure on the prices of the components that go into these end use applications. If the average selling prices of end use applications continue to decrease, the pricing pressure on components produced by us may lead to a reduction of our revenue. -8- Table of Contents If we are unable to compete effectively in the highly competitive foundry segment of the semiconductor industry, we may lose customers and our profit margin and earnings may decrease. The markets for our foundry services are highly competitive both in Taiwan and internationally. We compete with other dedicated foundry service providers, as well as integrated device manufacturers. Some of these companies may have access to more advanced technologies and greater financial and other resources than us. Our competition may, from time to time also decide to undertake aggressive pricing initiatives in one or more technology nodes. Competitive activities may cause us to lose customers or to decrease our average selling prices. If we are unable to remain a technological leader in the semiconductor industry, we may become less competitive. The semiconductor industry and the technologies used in it are constantly changing. If we do not anticipate these changes in technologies and rapidly develop new and innovative technologies or our competitors unforeseeably gain sudden access to more advanced technologies, we may not be able to provide advanced foundry services on competitive terms. Although we have concentrated on maintaining a competitive edge in research and development, if we fail to achieve advances in technology or processes, or to obtain access to advanced technologies or processes developed by others, we may become less competitive. If we are unable to manage our expansion and the modification of our production facilities effectively, our growth prospects may be limited. We have been ramping up production at Fab 12 and Fab 14, our 300mm wafer fabs in the Hsinchu Science Park and in the Southern Taiwan Science Park, respectively, since 2004. In 2005, the capacity of our 300mm wafer fabs increased from 30,000 wafer per month to 65,000 wafer per month at Fab 12 and Fab 14. We have also completed the building construction of our Fab 14 (Phase II) facility in the Southern Taiwan Science Park. Although we have studied the potential effects of vibration from the high speed railway planned to pass through the Southern Taiwan Science Park and believe that the vibrations will not affect our yield rates for production in the Southern Taiwan Science Park, we can give no assurances that our yields will not be negatively affected after the high-speed railway has commenced operation. Expansion and modification of our production facilities will increase our costs. We will need to purchase additional equipment, train personnel to operate the new equipment or hire additional personnel. In addition, we may incur other expenditures resulting from any negative effects of the high-speed railway on our expansions in the Southern Taiwan Science Park. If we do not increase our net sales accordingly in order to offset these higher costs, our financial performance may be adversely affected. We may not be able to implement our planned growth or development if we are unable to accurately forecast and sufficiently meet our future capital requirements. Capital requirements are difficult to plan in the highly dynamic, cyclical and rapidly changing semiconductor industry. We will continue to need significant capital to fund our operations and growth. Although we currently have adequate financial resources and excellent relations with financial institutions who are willing to consider extending credit to us if needed on market terms, our continued ability to obtain sufficient external financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by semiconductor companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in Taiwan and elsewhere. Sufficient external financing may not be available to us on a timely basis, on general market terms, or at all. As a result, we may be forced to curtail our expansion and modification plans or delay the deployment of new or expanded services until we obtain such financing. -9- Table of Contents We may not be able to implement our planned growth or maintain our leading position if we are unable to recruit and retain qualified management and skilled technical and service personnel. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers and skilled technical and other personnel. Our business could suffer if we lose for whatever reasons, the services of some of these personnel and we cannot adequately replace them. We may be required to increase the number of employees in connection with any business expansion, and since there is intense competition for the services of these personnel, we cannot ensure that we will be able to fulfill our personnel requirements in a timely manner. We may be unable to obtain in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost the equipment necessary for us to remain competitive. Our operations and ongoing expansion plans depend on our ability to obtain a significant amount of equipment and related services from a limited number of suppliers, and in a market that is characterized, from time to time, by intense demand, limited supply and long delivery cycles. During such times, supplier-specific or industry-wide lead times for delivery can be as long as four to ten months or more. Supplier-specific or industry-wide shortages of equipment could result in an increase in equipment prices and longer delivery times. If we are unable to obtain equipment in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost, we may be unable to fulfill our customers’ orders, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue and profitability may decline if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner and at reasonable prices. Our production operations require that we obtain adequate supplies of raw materials, such as silicon wafers, gases, chemicals, and photoresist, on a timely basis. Shortages in the supply of some materials experienced by specific vendors or by the semiconductor industry generally have in the past resulted in occasional industry-wide price adjustments and delivery delays. Also, since we procure some of our raw materials from sole-source suppliers, there is a risk that our need for such raw materials may not be timely met. Our revenue and earnings could decline if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of the necessary raw materials in a timely manner or if there are significant increases in the costs of raw materials that we cannot pass on to our customers. If the Ministry of Economic Affairs uses a substantial portion of our production capacity, we will not be able to service our other customers. According to our agreement with the Industrial Technology Research Institute of Taiwan, or ITRI, the Ministry of Economic Affairs of the ROC, or an entity designated by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, has an option to purchase up to 35% of certain of our capacity. Although the Ministry of Economic Affairs has never exercised this option, if this option is exercised to any significant degree during tight market conditions, we may not be able to provide services to all of our other customers unless we are able to increase our capacity accordingly or outsource such increased demand and in a timely manner. Any inability to obtain, preserve and defend our technologies and intellectual property rights could harm our competitive position. Our ability to compete successfully and to achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our technologies, and to secure on commercially reasonable terms for certain technologies and licenses. In this regard, we are the beneficiary of government export licenses, technology licenses and a significant number of patent and other intellectual property license agreements that provide us with certain rights, technologies or patent and other intellectual property protection that may be material to our business. We cannot ensure that we will be able to develop independently, or secure from any third party, all of the technologies required for sustaining our business or upgrading our production capabilities. Litigation may also be necessary to enforce or defend our manufacturing processes, technologies and intellectual property rights. We have no means of knowing what patent applications have been filed by third parties in Taiwan, the United States or other jurisdictions until they are published or granted. Because of the complexity of the technologies used and the multitude of trade secrets, patents, and other intellectual property rights, it is often -10- Table of Contents difficult for companies to determine improper use of confidential technologies and/or infringement. Therefore, the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent, trade secret and other intellectual property rights. We have received, from time-to-time, communications from third parties asserting that our technologies, manufacturing processes, the design of the integrated circuits made by us or the use by our customers of semiconductors made by us may infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights. And, because of the nature of the industry, we may continue to receive such communications in the future. In some instances, these disputes have resulted in litigation. In the event any third party were to assert infringement claims against us or our customers, we may have to consider alternatives including, but not limited to: • negotiating cross-license agreements using the strength of our intellectual property portfolio to try to offset any financial costs; • seeking to acquire licenses to the allegedly infringed intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • discontinuing using certain process technologies, which could cause us to stop manufacturing certain semiconductor products or applying particular technologies if we were unable to design around the allegedly infringed intellectual property; or • fighting the matter in court and paying substantial monetary judgments in the event we were to lose. Any one or several of these and other developments could place substantial financial and administrative burdens on us and hinder our business. If we fail to obtain or maintain certain government, technology or intellectual property licenses and, if litigation relating to alleged intellectual property matters occurs, it could prevent us from manufacturing or selling particular products or applying particular technologies, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. See “Item 8. Financial Information — Legal Proceedings” for a further discussion. We are subject to the risk of loss due to explosion and fire because some of the materials we use in our manufacturing processes are highly combustible. We and many of our suppliers use highly combustible and toxic materials in manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of loss arising from explosion, fire, or environmental excursions which cannot be completely eliminated. Although we maintain many overlapping risk prevention and protection systems, as well as comprehensive fire and casualty insurance, including insurance for loss of property and loss of profit resulting from business interruption, our risk management and insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. If any of our fabs were to be damaged or cease operations as a result of an explosion, fire, or environmental excursions, it could reduce our manufacturing capacity and may cause us to lose important customers, thereby having a potentially material adverse impact on our financial performance. Any impairment charges may have a material adverse effect on our net income. Under ROC GAAP and US GAAP, we are required to evaluate our equipment and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever there is an indication of impairment. If certain criteria are met, we are required to record an impairment charge. We are also required under ROC GAAP and US GAAP to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least on an annual basis or whenever a triggering event or an indication of impairment occurs. We currently are not able to estimate the extent or timing of any impairment charge for future years. Any impairment charge required may have a material adverse effect on our net income. The determination of an impairment charge at any given time is based significantly on our expected results of operations over a number of years subsequent to that time. As a result, an impairment charge is more likely to occur during a period when our operating results are otherwise already depressed. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects ¾ Critical Accounting Policies” for a discussion of our estimates made for determining an impairment charge. -11- Table of Contents Any significant decrease in sales to one or more of our major customers may decrease our net sales and net income. In 2004 and 2005, our ten largest customers have accounted for 49% and 52%, respectively, of our net sales. In particular, our largest customer in 2005 accounted for approximately 11% of our net sales in 2005. The fact that a relatively limited number of customers constitute a significant portion of our revenue may remain as a business characteristic inherent to our extensive presence in the dedicated foundry segment of the semiconductor market. Also, we are the sole foundry service provider for certain of our customers. We cannot assure you that there will be no loss or cancellation of business from any of our major customers, in the future due to reasons beyond our control. Loss or cancellation of business from our most significant customers, should there be any, could significantly reduce our net sales and net income. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the market price of our common shares and ADSs. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our reputation and results of operations could be harmed. We are required to comply with various ROC and US laws and regulations on internal controls. For example, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, we are required to furnish a report by management on our internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, ROC law requires us to establish internal control systems that would reasonably ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of operations, reliability of financial reporting, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We are also required under ROC law to file an internal control declaration within four months of the end of each fiscal year. Internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements because of their inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and ADSs. Risks Relating to the ROC Relations between the Republic of China (“ROC”) and the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) could negatively affect our business and financial status and therefore the market value of your investment. The ROC has a unique international political status. The PRC does not recognize the sovereignty of the ROC. Although the two sides have co-existed for the past 57 years and significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between the ROC and the PRC, relations have often been strained. The government of the PRC has announced its intent to use military force to gain control over the ROC if the ROC declares itself independent. In particular, on March 14, 2005, the PRC adopted an anti-secession law which includes such a threat. However, in May 2005, the PRC announced a series of goodwill gestures towards the ROC, including the gift of two pandas, the lifting of a ban on its tourists visiting the ROC and easing restrictions on the import of various agricultural product. Past developments in relations between the ROC and the PRC have on occasion depressed the market prices of the securities of Taiwanese companies, including our own. The ROC government currently restricts transfer by Taiwanese companies of certain technologies to and certain types of investments by Taiwanese companies in Mainland China. The ROC government in April 2002, partially lifted the ban on investment by Taiwan semiconductor manufacturing companies in 200mm wafer fabs in -12- Table of Contents Mainland China. Even though we obtained approval to establish a 200mm wafer fab in Mainland China, significant restrictions remain. Our principal executive officers and our principal production facilities are located in the ROC and a substantial majority of our net revenues are derived from our operations in the ROC. Therefore, factors affecting military, political or economic conditions in the ROC could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, as well as the market price and the liquidity of our ADSs and common shares. Our production may be interrupted if we do not have access to sufficient amounts of fresh water or a sufficient supply of electricity. Our manufacturing processes use extensive amounts of fresh water and electricity. Due to the growth in semiconductor manufacturing capacity in Hsinchu Science Park and Southern Taiwan Science Park, the requirements for fresh water and power in these industrial parks have grown substantially. There is a risk that the overgrowth of Hsinchu Science Park and Southern Taiwan Science Park may cause such parks to suffer an under-capacity in adequate fresh water and electricity supply. We have sometimes suffered power outages caused by our major electricity supplier, the Taiwan Power Company, or other power consumers on the same power supply line, which have caused interruptions in our production schedule. For example, on April 10, 2004, a power outage caused by a circuit trip of a high voltage underground cable line of Taiwan Power Company, and on October 3, 2005, a serious power dip (an abrupt decrease of voltage in power supply) caused by a short-circuit fault of Taiwan Power Company’s Hsinchu Main Station, affected our fabs in Hsinchu Science Park. Similarly, our operation in mainland China may also suffer power outages due to reasons beyond our control. For example, our Fab 10 in Shanghai suffered a power outage for about one hour in May 2005 caused by lightning striking in the vicinity of Fab 10. Material power outages or water insufficiencies could disrupt the normal operation of our business and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are vulnerable to natural disasters which could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business and adversely affect our earnings. Most of our production facilities, as well as many of our suppliers and customers and upstream providers of complementary semiconductor manufacturing services, are located in Taiwan. Taiwan is susceptible to earthquakes, droughts, and typhoons. On September 21, 1999, Taiwan experienced a severe earthquake that caused significant property damage and loss of life, particularly in the central part of Taiwan. This earthquake caused damage to production facilities and adversely affected the operations of many companies in the semiconductor and other industries, including our own. Taiwan experiences droughts from time to time, and in 2002 and 2003, Taiwan experienced serious droughts. Although we maintain natural perils insurance up to policy limits, including insurance for loss of property and loss of profit resulting from business interruption, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. A major earthquake or other natural disaster in Taiwan could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign exchange losses. Over half of our capital expenditures and manufacturing costs are denominated in currencies other than NT dollars, primarily U.S. dollars, Japanese yen and Euros. A larger portion of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and currencies other than NT dollars. Therefore, any significant fluctuation to our disadvantage in such exchange rate may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NT dollar may affect the U.S. dollar value of our common shares and the market price of the ADSs and of any cash dividends paid in NT dollars on our common shares represented by ADSs. Any future outbreak of new or unusual diseases may materially affect global corporate operations and business, including our own. Any outbreak of a contagious disease may adversely affect the population on a pandemic regional or worldwide basis and therefore may potentially result in a quarantine of infected persons and also may affect the operations of the global business community, including one or more of our facilities. The global health authorities -13- Table of Contents cannot predict the impact any future outbreak could have on our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we cannot assure you that our business or prospects would not be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to ownership of ADSs Your voting rights as a holder of ADSs will be limited. Holders of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) evidencing ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the common shares represented by these ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of our ADS deposit agreement. The deposit agreement provides that, upon receipt of notice of any meeting of holders of our common shares, the depositary bank will, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail to the holders (i) the notice of the meeting sent by us, (ii) voting instruction forms and (iii) a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by the holders. ADS holders will not generally be able to exercise the voting rights attaching to the deposited securities on an individual basis. According to the ROC Company Law, the voting rights attaching to the deposited securities must be exercised as to all matters subject to a vote of shareholders collectively in the same manner, except in the case of an election of directors and supervisors. Election of directors and supervisors is by means of cumulative voting. See “Item 10. Additional Information — Voting of Deposited Securities” for a more detailed discussion of the manner in which a holder of ADSs can exercise its voting rights. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under our ADS deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. Although we may be eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions for rights offerings by certain foreign companies, we can give no assurance that we can establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have such a registration statement declared effective. In addition, if the depositary bank is unable to obtain the requisite approval from the Central Bank of China for the conversion of the subscription payments into NT dollars or if the depositary determines that it is unlikely to obtain this approval, we may decide with the depositary bank not to make the rights available to holders of ADSs. See “Item 10. Additional Information — Foreign Investment in the ROC” and “Item 10. Additional Information — Exchange Controls in the ROC”. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. If the depositary bank is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. The value of your investment may be reduced by possible future sales of common shares or ADSs by us or our shareholders. One or more of our existing shareholders may, from time to time, dispose of significant numbers of common shares or ADSs. In October 2003, one of our two largest shareholders, Philips, announced its intention to gradually and orderly reduce its equity interest in us and reiterated this intention in May 2005. In August and September 2005, Philips sold an additional 113,521,000 ADSs. Moreover, our other major shareholder, the Development Fund, has sold ADSs in several transactions since 1997, including 44,172,500 ADSs in August and September 2005. In addition, we have in place a conversion sale program that allows some of our shareholders to sell their common shares in ADS form to a specified financial intermediary during a 30-day period not more than once every three months. Since the establishment of the program in 1999, a total of 42,076,000 ADSs (without adjustments for subsequent stock dividends) were sold in several transactions under the program. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of ADSs or common shares, or the availability of ADSs or common shares for future sale, will -14- Table of Contents have on the market price of ADSs or common shares prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of ADSs or common shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the prevailing market price of our ADSs or common shares and could reduce the premium, if any, that the price per ADS on the New York Stock Exchange represents over the corresponding aggregate price of the underlying five common shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. The market value of our shares may fluctuate due to the volatility of, and government intervention in, the ROC securities market. Because the Taiwan Stock Exchange experiences from time to time substantial fluctuations in the prices and volumes of sales of listed securities, there are currently limits on the range of daily price movements on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. In response to past declines and volatility in the securities markets in Taiwan, and in line with similar activities by other countries in Asia, the government of the ROC formed the Stabilization Fund, which has purchased and may from time to time purchase shares of Taiwan companies to support these markets. In addition, other funds associated with the ROC government have in the past purchased, and may from time to time purchase, shares of Taiwan companies on the Taiwan Stock Exchange or other markets. In the future, market activity by government entities, or the perception that such activity is taking place, may take place or has ceased, may cause fluctuations in the market prices of our ADSs and common shares. 