ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position, limit our available cash and our access to additional capital and prevent us from growing our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2005, we had total debt (consisting of the aggregate amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facility, 2nd lien floating rate notes, senior notes, senior subordinated notes, notes payable, capital leases, and other indebtedness) of approximately $741.7 million, $234.2 million of which was first-lien and second-lien secured debt and effectively senior to our $145.0 million senior notes and our $314.1 million senior subordinated notes. Also included in the total debt as of December 31, 2005, were capital lease obligations of approximately $8.1 million and additional domestic and international debt obligations of approximately $40.3 million, some of which is secured by the collateral of some of our international subsidiaries. 11 Table of Contents The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • increasing the amount of interest expense that we have to pay, because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which, if interest rates increase, could result in higher interest expense; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate; • impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; • preventing us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase all notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of changes of control in our ownership, which would constitute a default under the indentures governing our notes; or • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. An inability to service our indebtedness could lead to a default under our senior secured credit facility and our indentures, which may result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we estimate that we will need approximately $78 million of cash to pay the interest. Our ability to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness (including the obligations under the senior secured credit facility, the floating rate notes, the senior notes and the senior subordinated notes) and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance and the availability of refinancing indebtedness, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our future cash flow may not be sufficient to meet our obligations and commitments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our indebtedness and to meet our other commitments, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling material non-core assets or operations or seeking to raise additional debt or equity capital. These actions may not be effected on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms or at all, and these actions may not enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements. In addition, our existing or future debt agreements, including the indentures governing the floating rate notes, the senior notes and senior subordinated notes and the senior secured credit facility may contain restrictive covenants prohibiting us from adopting any of these alternatives. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our business is cyclical in nature and downturns in our primary markets could reduce the net sales and cash flow of our business. In 2005, 33% of our sales were derived from the OEM market in North America. The demand for our original equipment products is dependent on the production of automobiles, light trucks and heavy duty vehicles in North America. The automotive industry is highly cyclical, as new vehicle demand is dependent on consumer spending and is tied closely to the overall strength of the North American economy. In addition, automotive production can be affected by inventory levels, interest rates, labor relations issues, strikes, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. The volume of automotive production in North America has fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from year to year, and such fluctuations give rise to fluctuations in the demand for our products. Any decline in the demand for new automobiles, particularly in the United States, could have a material adverse impact on our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. Seasonality experienced by the automobile industry also impacts our operations, and historically we have reported lower levels of sales for July and December due to model changeovers and plant idling by the automobile and light truck OEMs. Historically, the heavy duty truck industry has been more cyclical than the automotive industry. New demand in the heavy duty truck industry is largely dependent upon the overall strength of the North American economy. In addition, heavy duty truck production can be affected by interest rates, government regulations, labor relations, strikes, new product introductions and other factors. There can be no assurance that the heavy duty truck industry supplied by us 12 Table of Contents will not experience downturns in the future. A significant decrease in overall demand for heavy duty trucks could have a material adverse effect on us. The loss of a major customer or the deteriorating financial condition of certain customers could reduce our net sales, cash flow and profitability. The majority of our sales are to automotive and heavy-duty OEMs, OEM dealer networks, leading automotive parts retail chains and warehouse distributors. There can be no assurance that any of our top customers will continue to require all of the products or services currently provided by us or that any of our top customers will not develop alternative sources, including their own in-house operations, for the products or services they currently purchase. In addition, certain customers are facing structural issues, potential disruption of their supply chain due to bankruptcy and labor issues and negative industry trends resulting in deteriorating financial conditions. Some of these customers are addressing these problems through restructuring, which may include significant capacity reductions or reorganization under bankruptcy laws. The loss of any of our major customers, reduction in their demand for our products or the substantial restructuring activities by our major customers, could reduce our net sales, cash flow and profitability. Longer product life of parts may reduce aftermarket demand for some of our products. In 2005, approximately 58% of our sales were to the aftermarket. The average useful life of original equipment parts has been steadily increasing in recent years due to improved quality and innovations in products and technologies. The longer product lives allow vehicle owners to replace parts of their vehicles less often. Additional increases in the average useful life of automotive parts are likely to adversely affect the demand for our aftermarket products. The uncertain conditions in the automotive industry may adversely affect our financial position. The revenues of our Original Equipment, which we refer to as OE, operations are closely tied to global OE automobile sales and production levels. The OE market is characterized by short-term volatility, with overall expected long-term growth in global vehicle sales and production. Automotive production in the local markets served by us can be affected by macro-economic factors such as interest rates, fuel prices, consumer confidence, employment trends, regulatory requirements and trade agreements. A variation in the level of automobile production would affect not only sales to OE customers, but, depending on the reasons for the change, could impact demand from aftermarket customers. If we fail to respond in a timely and appropriate manner to changes in the demand for our products, then our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business is very competitive, and increased competition could reduce our revenues. The motor vehicle parts industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Some of our OEM competitors are divisions or subsidiaries of companies that are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. Certain of these competitors are domiciled in areas that we are targeting for growth. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors. Furthermore, the trend towards consolidation among automotive parts suppliers is resulting in fewer, larger suppliers who benefit from purchasing and distribution economies of scale. If we cannot achieve cost savings and operational improvements sufficient to allow us to compete favorably in the future with these larger companies, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to a reduction of, or inability to increase, sales sufficient to offset other price increases. We depend heavily on GM. If GM develops alternative sources or otherwise decreases its need for the products we currently supply, our net sales, cash flow and profitability may decrease. GM and GM SPO, together accounted for approximately 22% of our aggregate net sales in 2005. The loss of GM as a customer for OEM or aftermarket products, the default by GM on its obligations to act as a distributor or to purchase our OEM or aftermarket products, a substantial decrease in demand for GM’s automobile models containing our products or our failure to obtain supply orders for our products used in GM’s new automobile models could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the potential disruption of GM’s supply chain, strikes and work stoppages affecting GM’s operations may postpone GM’s need for components produced by us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents In connection with our separation from GM in July 1994, GM entered into long-term contracts to purchase from us 100% of its North American requirements for automotive starters (other than for Saturn and Geo) and 100% of its U.S. and Canadian requirements for heavy-duty starters and alternators. GM’s obligation to purchase automotive starters from us terminates on August 31, 2008. GM’s obligation to purchase heavy-duty starters and alternators from us terminated on July 31, 2000. GM’s commitments to purchase products from us in the future are subject to those products remaining competitive as to price, technology and design. We cannot be sure that GM will not develop alternative sources for components currently produced by us and purchase some or all of its requirements for starters and alternators from these alternative sources. In addition, GM SPO is the exclusive distributor of a significant number of our automotive products and is a distributor of our heavy-duty aftermarket products. Our exclusive distribution arrangement with GM SPO for our automotive aftermarket products terminates on July 31, 2009. Our distribution arrangement with GM SPO is continuously renewable on an annual basis for our heavy-duty aftermarket products. The prices that we can charge GM and some of our other customers are predetermined, and we bear the risk of costs in excess of our estimates. Our supply agreements with GM and some of our other customers require us to provide our products at predetermined prices. In some cases, these prices decline over the course of the contract. The costs that we incur in fulfilling these contracts may vary substantially from our initial estimates. Unanticipated cost increases may occur as a result of several factors, including increases in the costs of labor, components or materials. Although in some cases we are permitted to pass on to our customers the cost increases associated with specific materials, cost increases that we cannot pass on to our customers would adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. We may not realize sales represented by awarded business. We base our growth projections, in part, on commitments made by our customers. These commitments generally renew yearly during a program life cycle. If actual production orders from our customers do not approximate such commitments, it could have a material adverse effect on our growth and financial performance. Consolidation among our customers could make it more difficult for us to compete successfully. In both the original equipment market and aftermarket, the customer base is consolidating. As a result, we are competing for business from fewer customers. Even if we successfully attract this business, we would become more reliant on major customers, which would exacerbate the risks described above. Due to the cost and capital focus of these major customers, we have been, and expect to continue to be, required to reduce prices. If we are not able to generate cost savings and operational improvements in the future that would be sufficient to offset price reductions required by existing customers or as otherwise necessary to attract new business, these price reductions could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. Work stoppages or other labor issues at the facilities of our customers or other suppliers could adversely affect our operations. Difficult conditions in the automotive industry and actions taken by our customers and other suppliers to address negative industry conditions may affect our business. If any of our customers experience a significant work stoppage, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. Similarly, a work stoppage at another supplier could interrupt production at our customer which would have the same effect. This could cause us to shut down production facilities relating to those products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. Customer requirements for vendor owned inventory may have an adverse impact on our financial condition, liquidity and cash flow. Certain aftermarket customers, including both large retail customers and smaller warehouse distributors, require the vendor of record to provide financial assistance to offset the customer investment in inventory held for sale. Such assistance may be in the form of extended payment terms, vendor owned inventory or supply of inventory without a core deposit. Participation in such initiatives requires us to invest our financial resources in accounts receivable, or product 14 Table of Contents residing on the customer shelf prior to its sale to the end user. As such demands increase in number and dollar volume, our financial condition, liquidity and cash flow may be adversely impacted. Unexpected changes in our core liability or the market value of cores may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We record a liability for core returns based on cores expected to be returned. The liability represents the difference between the core deposit value to be credited to the customer and the core inventory value for the core being returned. Core inventory values decline over the expected remaining life of the core family. Core inventory values decline on the basis of several economic factors, including market availability, seasonality and demand. If estimated returns and/or core market value differ from management’s estimates, revisions to the estimated core liability may be required and may have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our products are subject to changing technology, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage, relative to alternate products introduced by our competitors. Some of our products are subject to changing technology. For example, hybrid vehicles use more advanced technology than found in traditional starters and alternators. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve the technological advances or introduce new products that may be necessary to remain competitive within our business. We may require significant ongoing and recurring additional capital expenditures and investment in research and development, manufacturing and other areas to remain competitive. Further, we cannot assure you that any technological development by us can be adequately protected such that we can maintain a sustainable competitive advantage. We are dependent on the availability of raw materials and component parts. We purchase substantial amounts of raw materials and some component parts from outside sources. Our principal purchased materials include aluminum castings, gray and ductile iron castings, armatures, solenoids, copper wire, injectors, electronics, steel shafts, forgings, bearings, commutators, pumps and carbon brushes. The availability and prices of raw materials and component parts may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these materials could materially affect our operating results. A significant increase in the prices of these materials could increase our operating costs and our inability to pass these price increases on to our customers could have an adverse effect on our profit margins. We are subject to risk due to an extensive global supply chain and may incur additional costs that could negatively impact our operations, cash flow and profitability. Weather, strikes and seasonal fluctuations are all potential obstacles to obtaining the supply of components and products that our customers require. Although some supply items are dual sourced (from more than one geographic area), any disruption in the supply chain from weather, strikes or government port intervention or excessive demand would cause us to incur premium alternative freight costs or cause temporary shortages to customers, thereby negatively impacting our business, cash flow and financial results. The adverse industry environment may require us to pay suppliers in advance or on short credit terms. This may impact our liquidity negatively and may lead to interruptions in production. Our lean manufacturing and other cost saving plans may not be effective. Our operations strategy includes goals such as improvement of inventory management, customer delivery, plant and distribution facility consolidation and the integration of back office functions across our businesses. While we believe that the successful implementation of these and other cost saving plans could result in reducing our expenses, there can be no assurance that these results can be achieved. If we are unable to realize these anticipated synergies, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Moreover, the implementation of cost saving plans and facilities integration may disrupt our operations and financial performance. 15 Table of Contents We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. We may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product. Depending on the terms under which we supply products, we may be held responsible for some or all of the repair or replacement costs of our products when the product supplied did not perform as represented. Our costs associated with providing product warranties could be material. Product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, which may become impaired in the future. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, net were approximately $176.6 million as of December 31, 2005, or 20% of our total assets. Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was approximately $156.7 million as of December 31, 2005, or 18% of our total assets. Impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products sold by our business, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge that is included in operating income. We are subject to financial statement risk in the event that goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets become impaired. A limited number of persons indirectly control us and may exercise their control in an adverse manner to others. Court Square Capital Limited, or Court Square, Citicorp Venture Capital Equity Partners, L.P., CVC Executive Fund LLC, CVC/SSB Employee Fund, L.P., Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and Annex Holdings I L.P. together beneficially own, indirectly through our parent company, Remy Worldwide Holdings, Inc., approximately 95% of our outstanding common stock. By virtue of their ownership, these persons have the power to direct our affairs and will be able to determine the outcome of all matters required to be submitted to the stockholders for approval, including the election of a majority of our directors, the approval of mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and the amendment of our certificate of incorporation. These persons have the power to prevent or cause a change in control of our company. In addition, these persons may exercise such power in their own interests and not necessarily in the interests of the holders of our notes. We may not be able to integrate our acquisitions into our business successfully. We have completed 18 acquisitions and entered into 6 joint ventures since our separation from GM. We also may consider acquisitions, business combinations and joint ventures in the future. Acquisitions and joint ventures involve a number of special risks and challenges, including those relating to conforming the standards, processes, procedures and controls of the acquired business with those of our existing operations, coordinating new product and process development, the assumption of unknown liabilities, integrating product technologies, increases in indebtedness and increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Our failure to integrate these businesses successfully into our existing businesses could result in our incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. 16 Table of Contents Our international operations subject us to risks not faced by domestic competitors, which include unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in other countries. Approximately 20% of our net sales in fiscal year 2005 were derived from net sales in foreign markets. We expect sales from international markets to represent an increasing portion of total sales. Risks inherent in international operations include the following: • agreements may be difficult to enforce and receivables difficult to collect through a foreign country’s legal system; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles; • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including exchange controls; • U.S. export licenses may be difficult to obtain; • intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce in foreign countries; • general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in those countries; • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur; • compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be difficult; and • overlap of different tax structures may subject us to additional taxes. We cannot be sure that any of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations that could adversely affect our reported net sales, results of operations and financial condition. Our international sales are generally denominated in foreign currencies, and this revenue could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. Changes in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our reported revenues and could require us to reduce our prices to remain competitive in foreign markets, which could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Principal and interest on the notes will be payable in U.S. dollars. Our ability to pay interest and principal on our notes and other principal indebtedness when due is dependent on the then current exchange rates between U.S. dollars, on the one hand, and the Euro and other European as well as Asian currencies, on the other hand, which rates are and will be subject to fluctuation. We source many of our parts, components and finished products from Mexico, Europe and Asia. The cost of these products could fluctuate depending on foreign currency fluctuations. Approximately 20% of our net sales in fiscal year 2005 were derived from net sales in foreign markets. Fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services provided by us in foreign markets where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies effectively depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel in key areas, including engineering, sales and marketing, operations, information technology, and finance. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. 17 Table of Contents Environmental and health and safety liabilities and requirements could require us to incur material costs. We are subject to various U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and worker health and safety, including those governing: • discharges of pollutants into the air and water; • the management and disposal of hazardous substances; and • the cleanup of contaminated properties. The nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of liabilities and claims with respect to environmental matters, including on-site and off-site disposal of hazardous waste. For example, there are ongoing investigation and remediation activities in connection with several of our properties, and we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at two off-site disposal sites. Although virtually all of these matters are being handled by former owners of our various properties and businesses pursuant to indemnification and similar agreements, we could incur material costs in connection with these matters if these indemnities become inapplicable or unavailable. In addition, future events could require us to make additional expenditures to modify or curtail our operations, install pollution control equipment or investigate and cleanup contaminated sites, such as: • the discovery of new information concerning past releases of hazardous substances; • the discovery or occurrence of compliance problems relating to our operations; • changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation; and • more rigorous enforcement by regulatory authorities. Expenditures resulting from these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 Table of Contents 