D. RISK FACTORS. We do not have any long-term contracts with our wholesale customers and, therefore, we cannot be certain that all of our wholesale sales will continue; if not, our wholesale revenues will likely decline. We sell to a large number of wholesale customers in a variety of markets. Although we believe that we have maintained good and longstanding relationships with our principal wholesale customers, we do not have any long-term contracts with any of them, and they order only on a “purchase order” basis. The loss of a significant number of our principal wholesale customers or a significant reduction in their orders would have a materially adverse effect on our revenues. We face significant competition from larger competitors in our wholesale and retail operations. The making and distribution of jewelry is a highly competitive industry characterized by the diversity and sophistication of the products. We compete with major domestic and international companies with substantially greater financial, technical, marketing resources and personnel than us. There can be no assurance that other jewelry makers will not similarly develop low-cost, high-volume production capability or an even better process, providing greater competition for us and materially affecting our business prospects. There are numerous factors relating to the operations of our business that could adversely affect our success and results. As a maker and merchandiser of low-cost, high-quality gem-set jewelry, our existing and future operations are and will be influenced by several factors, including: • technological developments in the mass production of jewelry • our ability to meet the design and production requirements of our customers efficiently • the market acceptance of our ENZO jewelry and our customers’ jewelry • increases in expenses associated with continued sales growth -5- Table of Contents • our ability to control costs • our management’s ability to evaluate the public’s taste and new orders to target satisfactory profit margins • our capacity to develop and manage the introduction of new designed products • our ability to compete Quality control is also essential to our operations since customers demand compliance with design and product specifications and consistency of production. We cannot assure that revenue growth will occur on a quarterly or annual basis. Our production facilities and substantially all of our retail stores are located in China. Our results of operations and financial condition may, therefore, be influenced by the economic, political, legal and social conditions in China. Since 1978, the Chinese government has been reforming, and is expected to continue to reform, China’s economic and political systems. Such reforms have resulted in significant social progress. Other political, economic and social factors could also lead to further readjustment of the reform measures. This refinement and readjustment process may not always have a positive effect on our operations in China. At times, we may also be adversely affected by changes in policies of the Chinese government such as changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, the introduction of additional measures to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation and imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad. Changes to PRC tax laws may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. The National People’s Congress, the Chinese legislature, on March 16, 2007 passed a new enterprise income tax law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The new law applies a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate (“EIT”) to both foreign invested enterprises and domestic enterprises, except that enterprises that were approved to be established prior to March 16, 2007 may continue to enjoy the applicable preferential tax treatments until December 31, 2012. Eligible companies are required to transition to the new EIT rate over a five-year period starting January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is deemed to be considered as a “resident enterprise”, meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. Currently, no official interpretation or application of this new “resident enterprise” classification is available and, therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our British Virgin Islands holding company is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting -6- Table of Contents obligations. In our case, this would mean that non-PRC source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%, in comparison to no taxation in the British Virgin Islands. Second, under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would be subject to a 10% withholding income tax. Finally, if our British Virgin Islands holding company is deemed to be a PRC tax resident enterprise, a 10% withholding tax shall be imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived from our non-PRC shareholders transferring our shares. Our products are currently made at our production facilities located in Shenzhen, China. However, our insurance may not adequately cover any losses due to fire, casualty or theft. We have obtained fire, casualty and theft insurance covering our stock in trade, goods and merchandise, furniture and equipment and production facilities in China. The proceeds of such insurance may not be sufficient to cover material damage to, or the loss of, our production facilities due to fire, severe weather, flood or other cause, and such damage or loss would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and prospects. Consistent with the customary practice among enterprises in China and due to the cost in relation to the benefit, we do not carry any business interruption insurance in China. Sales of our jewelry at both the retail and wholesale levels are seasonally sensitive and are generally strongest during the quarter ending December 31 of each year due to the importance of the holiday selling season. Our retail sales are typically seasonally greater in the fourth quarter and the first quarter of each year due to high spending of consumers during the Christmas and Chinese New Year holidays. Our wholesale sales are typically greater in the third and fourth quarters of each year in anticipation of the Christmas holidays. The success of our retail store expansion program in China is dependent upon numerous factors over which we have limited control. The future success of our ENZO retail stores in China is partially dependent upon general economic conditions in China, competitive developments within the retail jewelry sector in China and consumer attitudes, including changes in consumer preferences for certain jewelry styles and materials. In addition, our retail expansion program is also dependent upon a number of factors relating to our stores, including the availability of property for lease, the location of the mall or shopping centre, the availability of desirable locations within a mall, the terms of leases, our relationship with major landlords, and the design and maintenance of our stores. We rely on short-term financing from banks for our daily operation. We rely on short-term borrowings as part of our financing needs. If we fail to achieve timely rollover, extension or refinancing of our short-term debt, we may be unable to meet our obligations in connection with debt service, accounts payable and/or other liabilities when they become due and payable. In addition, we may be exposed to changes in interest rates. If interest rates increase substantially, our results of operations could be adversely affected. -7- Table of Contents Certain of our banking facilities that offer short-term borrowings are collateralized by properties owned by our Chairman, Yu Chuan Yih, and by his personal guarantee. If Mr. Yih withdraws the properties or his personal guarantee, the banking facilities may no longer remain available for use by us. In that event, our daily operations would be adversely affected. Our banking facilities are collateralized by available-for-sale securities, leasehold land and buildings, restricted cash deposits, factored receivables, and personal guarantees of and properties owned by a director. The material provisions of indentures relating to our various banking facility agreements contain, among others, covenants pertaining to maintenance of the tangible net worth of LJI and one of its subsidiaries amounting to US$25,000,000 and US$4,487,000 respectively, and certain financial ratios related to debts of this subsidiary. Such financial ratios include the gearing ratio, determined as the ratio of “total interest bearing debt” to “tangible net worth plus non-redeemable preference shares and minority interest” as per the agreement; and debt service coverage, determined as “earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA)” to “principal and interest repayment for ensuring 12 months” as per the agreement. In the event of default, the bank would at its discretion cancel the facilities and demand immediate repayment of all principal, interest, fees and other amount outstanding. At December 31, 2011, one of our loan facilities in the amount of US$14,610,000, which relates to amounts in bank overdrafts, notes payables and letter of credit, had financial covenant violations related to exceeding financial ratios limiting the amount of debt held by a subsidiary. The violations remain in default and we continue negotiations with its lender to waive the default. We have classified the loan to current liabilities. Our holding company structure creates restrictions on the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations, other than the ownership of our subsidiaries, of which we have control over their operating policies including, among others, payment of dividends. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we, as a holding company, decide in the future to do so, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants and minimum net worth requirements in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into US dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. As a “foreign private issuer”, we are not subject to certain rules promulgated by Nasdaq that other Nasdaq-listed issuers are required to comply with. Our shares of common stock are currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Market (“Nasdaq”) and, for so long as our securities continue to be listed, we will remain subject to the rules and regulations established by Nasdaq applicable to listed companies. As permitted -8- Table of Contents under Nasdaq rules applicable to foreign private issuers, we have determined not to comply with the following Nasdaq rules: • our independent directors do not hold regularly scheduled meetings in executive session • the compensation of our executive officers is not determined by an independent committee of the board or by the independent members of the board of directors, and our CEO may be present and participate in the deliberations concerning his compensation • related party transactions are not required to be reviewed or approved by our audit committee or other independent body of the board of directors • we are not required to solicit shareholder approval of stock plans, including those in which our officers or directors may participate; stock issuances that will result in a change in control; the issuance of our stock in related party transactions or other transactions in which we may issue 20% or more of our outstanding shares; or, below market issuances of 20% or more of our outstanding shares to any person We may in the future determine to voluntarily comply with one or more of the foregoing provisions. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us or our management. We are a British Virgin Islands holding company, and substantially all of our assets are located in China and Hong Kong. In addition, all but one of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or substantial portions of the assets of such non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons. Moreover, there is doubt as to whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands, China or Hong Kong would enforce: • judgments of United States courts against us, our directors or our officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or • in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands, China or Hong Kong, liabilities against us or non-residents based upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Some information about us may be unavailable due to exemptions under the Exchange Act for a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K -9- Table of Contents • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations applicable to a security registered under the Exchange Act • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction Because of these exemptions, investors are not provided with the same information which is generally available about domestic public companies organized in the United States. Since we are a British Virgin Islands company, the rights of our shareholders may be more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith, and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. British Virgin Islands law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the laws protecting minority shareholders in US jurisdictions. In addition, the circumstances in which a shareholder of a BVI company may sue the company derivatively, and the procedures and defenses that may be available to the company, may result in the rights of shareholders of a BVI company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the US. Furthermore, our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval which would require shareholder approval under the laws of most US jurisdictions. The directors of a BVI corporation, subject in certain cases to court approval but without shareholder approval, may implement a reorganization, merger or consolidation, the sale of any assets, property, part of the business, or securities of the corporation. Our ability to amend our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in our control without any further action by the shareholders, including a tender offer to purchase our common stock at a premium over then current market prices. We may need to raise capital in the future. Such funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, and, without additional funds, we may not be able to expand our retail business in China. We expect to expend significant resources to expand our retail business in China. We will require substantial funds in order to finance our retail distribution and fund operating expenses. Without these funds, we may not be able to meet our goals. We may seek additional funding through equity or debt financing or through collaborative arrangements with strategic partners. You should also be aware that in the future: • We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available on favorable terms, if at all; -10- Table of Contents • Any available additional financing may not be adequate to meet our goals; and • Any equity financing would result in dilution to stockholders. If we cannot raise additional funds when needed and on acceptable terms, we may not be able to effectively execute our growth strategy (including expanding the number of our retail stores in China), take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. We are dependent on certain key personnel and the loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is, to a certain extent, attributable to the management, sales and marketing, and operational and technical expertise of certain key personnel. Each of our named executive officers, including our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Yu Chuan Yih, performs key functions in the operation of our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these officers or that such personnel may not receive and/or accept competing offers of employment. The loss of a significant number of these employees could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our current independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. -11- Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in the People’s Republic of China A substantial portion of our retail business operations and the manufacturing of our merchandises are conducted entirely in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”). Because China’s economy and its laws, regulations and policies are different from those typically found in Western countries and are continually changing, we face risks, including those summarized below. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by the PRC legal system, which is uncertain. As a result, it may limit the legal protections available to you and us and we may not now be, or remain in the future, in compliance with PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries that own our production facilities and retail stores in China are incorporated under and are governed by the laws of the PRC; a significant portion of our operations are conducted in the PRC; and many of our suppliers are located in the PRC. The PRC government exercises substantial control over virtually every sector of the PRC economy, including the production, distribution and sale of our merchandises. We are required to obtain several memberships and approval certificates from these government agencies in order to continue to conduct our business. We may be required to renew such memberships and to obtain approval certificates periodically. In order to operate under PRC law, our PRC subsidiaries require valid licenses, certificates and permits, which must be renewed from time to time. If we were to fail to obtain the necessary renewals for any reason, including sudden or unexplained changes in local regulatory practice, we could be required to shut down all or part of our operations temporarily or permanently. The legal and judicial systems in the PRC are still rudimentary. The laws governing our business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain and enforcement of existing laws is inconsistent. Thus, we can offer no assurance that we are, or will remain, in compliance with PRC laws and regulations. Anti-inflation measures could harm the economy generally and could harm our business. The PRC government exercises significant control over the PRC economy. In recent years, the PRC government has instituted measures to curb the risk of inflation. These measures have included monitoring the exchange rate of the RMB, restrictions on the availability of domestic credit, and limited re-centralization of the approval process for some international transactions. These measures may not succeed in controlling inflation, or they may slow the economy below a healthy growth rate and lead to economic stagnation or recession; in the worst-case scenario, the measures could slow the economy without curbing inflation, causing “stagflation.” The PRC government could adopt additional measures to further combat inflation, including the establishment of price freezes or moratoriums on certain projects or transactions. Such measures could harm the economy generally and hurt our business by limiting the income of our customers available to purchase our merchandise, by forcing us to lower our profit margins, and by limiting our ability to obtain credit or other financing to pursue our expansion plan or maintain our business. -12- Table of Contents Fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions in China and elsewhere in the world. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under this policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. Since then, Renminbi started to appreciate against U.S. dollar and reached one of its historical high point in July 2008. Thereafter, the Renminbi was traded within a narrow band against the U.S. dollar, remaining within 1% of its July 2008 high point. In June 2010, the PRC government announced that its plan to increase the flexibility of Renminbi exchange rate. Since that time, the Renminbi has gradually appreciated against the U.S. dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in greater fluctuation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. All of our net revenues from the retail segment and most of our expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Any significant revaluation of Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our shares in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would reduce the amount of Renminbi we would receive if we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi. Conversely, a significant depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may significantly reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings, which in turn could adversely affect the price of our shares. Limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. We have entered into some hedging transactions to hedge our exposure to the risks relating to fluctuations in exchange rates in the past. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. 