Item 1A. Risk Factors We regularly identify, monitor and assess our exposure to risk and seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our energy services and delivery business. However, there are risks that are beyond our control or that cannot be limited cost-effectively or that may occur despite our risk mitigation efforts. The risk factors discussed below could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operation or cash flows. Changes in the Northeast Electric Commodity Supply Business: Pursuant to legislation or policy directives at the state level, our electric utilities have sold the vast majority of their generation assets. In addition, CMP has been precluded by state legislation from supplying electricity to retail customers in Maine. In New York, the NYPSC is experimenting with programs that require utilities to actively encourage their customers to migrate to ESCO suppliers. The NYPSC may order NYSEG and RG&E to implement such programs or may seek to prohibit these utilities from offering their customers a fixed price bundled service including a fixed price for supply. See Item 7 - MD&A - Electric Delivery Rate Overview, NYSEG Electric Rate Plan Extension and Other Proceedings on the NYPSC Collaborative on End State of Energy Competition for a more detailed discussion of the proceedings related to our commodity supply business. Federal and State Utility Regulations: Our regulated utilities are subject to governmental regulation on a federal, state and local level. On the federal level, the FERC regulates our utilities' transmission rates, affiliate transactions, the issuance of certain short-term debt securities by our electric utilities and certain other aspects of our utilities' businesses. State commissions regulate the rates, terms and conditions of service, various business practices and transactions, financings, and transactions between the utilities and affiliates. Local regulation affects the siting of our transmission and distribution facilities and our ability to make repairs to such facilities. Our allowed rates of return, rate structures, operation and construction of facilities, rates of depreciation and amortization, recovery of costs (including decommissioning costs and exogenous costs such as storm related expenses), are all determined by the regulatory process. The timing and adequacy of reg ulatory relief directly affect our results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, compliance with regulatory requirements may result in substantial costs in our operations that may not be recovered. We cannot predict the effect of any future changes or revisions to laws and regulations concerning the utility industry on our financial position, results of operation or cash flows. See Item 7 - MD&A - Electric Delivery Business Developments and Natural Gas Delivery Business Developments for a discussion of pending regulatory proceedings that could significantly affect our operations. Holding Company Structure: We are a holding company whose material assets are the stock of our subsidiaries and interests in joint venture entities. Accordingly, we conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and to pay principal and accrued interest on our debt depends on the payment of dividends to us by our principal subsidiaries. Payments to us by those subsidiaries depend, in turn, upon their results of operations and cash flows, which are subject to the risk factors discussed in this section. The ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us is also affected by the level of their indebtedness, and the restrictions on payments to us imposed under the terms of such indebtedness and restrictions imposed by the Federal Power Act. Natural Gas Supply: Our natural gas companies may be affected by a number of different factors that could limit our ability to obtain natural gas supplies. While none of our operating utilities were directly affected by Hurricane Katrina or Hurricane Rita, the hurricanes' effects on natural gas supply and subsequent prices has affected our customers. Other supply and demand factors could also affect our future ability to obtain natural gas supplies. Increases in demand and lower supplies will most likely result in higher natural gas prices. While these costs are passed on to customers pursuant to natural gas adjustment clauses and therefore do not pose a direct risk to earnings, we are unable to predict what effect the sharp increase in natural gas prices may have on our customers' energy consumption or ability to pay. Transmission: Our electric utility companies have a substantial transmission capital investment program including an RG&E transmission project of approximately $110 million that has received the required regulatory approvals. However, the regulatory approval process for transmission projects is extensive and we may not be able to obtain the approvals required for other proposed transmission projects. Various factors beyond our control, including an increase in the cost of materials or labor, may increase the cost of completing construction projects as well as delay construction. Our new transmission projects are subject to the effects of new legislation, regulation and regional interpretations of applicable laws and regulations. Any changes to these laws and regulations may increase the costs or timing of our transmission projects. The FERC has jurisdiction over transmission expansion and generation interconnection. The FERC has issued several orders in the past years regarding the transmission expansion and generation interconnection cost allocation. Changes to the rules and regulations concerning the transmission expansion and generation cost allocations may have an effect on future transmission rates. Regional Transmission Organizations now oversee transmission services in CMP's service territory and between regions. Our transmission facilities are operated by and subject to the rules and regulations of NYISO and ISO New England. Changes to those rules and regulations could cause us to incur additional expenses in maintaining our facilities. Operational Issues Beyond our Control: In addition to our transmission and distribution assets, our ability to provide energy delivery and commodity services depends on the operations and facilities of third parties, including independent system operators; electric generators from whom we purchase electricity; and natural gas pipeline operators from whom we receive shipments of natural gas. The loss of use or destruction of our facilities or the facilities of third parties that are used in providing our services, or with which our electric or natural gas facilities are interconnected, due to extreme weather conditions, breakdowns, war, acts of terrorism or other occurrences could greatly reduce potential earnings and cash flows and increase our costs of repairs and/or replacement of assets. While we carry property insurance to protect certain assets and have regulatory agreements that provide for the recovery of losses for such incidents, our losses may not be fully recoverable throug h insurance or customer rates. Weather: The demand for our services, especially our natural gas delivery service, is directly affected by weather conditions. Milder winter months or cooler summer months could greatly reduce our earnings and cash flows. Loss of revenue due to power outages in severe weather could also reduce our earnings or require us to defer some costs for future recovery, thus reducing our cash flow. While our natural gas distribution companies mitigate the risk of warmer winter weather through weather normalization clauses or weather insurance, and we have historically been able to defer major storm costs for future recovery, we may not always be able to fully recover all lost revenues or increased expenses. Hedging Activities: We use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage our commodity and financial market risks. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts. We also bear the risk of a counterparty failing to perform. While we employ prudent credit policies and obtain collateral where appropriate, counterparty credit exposure cannot be eliminated, particularly in volatile energy markets. Our ability to hedge our commodity market risk depends on our ability to accurately forecast demand in future periods. Because of changes in weather and customer demand from period to period, we may hedge amounts that are greater or less than our actual commodity deliveries. Such differences may lead to financial losses and, if the differences exceed certain levels, could result in our hedges being ineffective under accounting guidance. Gains or losses on ineffective hedges are marked-to-market on our income statement without reference to our underlying sale of the commodity. Commodity Price Increases: Prices for electricity and natural gas are subject to volatile fluctuations in response to changes in supply and other market conditions. Commodity price increases are passed on to electric customers who choose a variable price option and to all natural gas customers. For the load required for electric customers who choose a fixed rate option, we have a comprehensive hedging program in place to mitigate substantially all of the price risk. Higher prices to customers can lead to higher bad debt expense and customer conservation resulting in reduced demand for our energy services. Pension and Postretirement Benefits: Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Any fluctuations in the performance of those markets, as well as changes in interest rates could increase our funding requirements for pension and postretirement benefit obligations and cause us to recognize increased pension expense. In addition, the cost to implement regulatory requirements and potential revisions to accounting standards could have an impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow. Changes in Regional Economic Conditions: Our business follows the economic cycle of the customers in the regions that we serve. A falling, slow or sluggish economy that would reduce the demand for electricity and natural gas in the areas in which we are doing business by forced temporary plant shutdowns, closing operations or slow economic growth would reduce our earnings potential in the affected region. Federal and State Environmental Regulations: Our subsidiaries' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations that monitor, among other things, emission allowances, pollution controls, maintenance, site remediation, upgrading equipment and management of hazardous waste. These governmental agencies require us to obtain a variety of licenses, permits, inspections and approvals. Compliance with these laws and requirements can impose significant costs, reduce cash flows, and result in plant down times. Capital: Our ability and/or cost to access capital could be negatively affected by changes in our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. If any of our utility subsidiaries' credit ratings were to be downgraded, our or their ability to access the capital markets, including the commercial paper markets, could be adversely affected and our or their borrowing costs would increase. Some of the factors that affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. An example of a factor that could cause our subsidiaries' debt as a component of total capitalization to increase would be the need to borrow money to pay for unexpected repairs to their transmission and distribution system caused by a catastrophic event. Nonutility Business: In addition to our regulated operating companies, which account for over 95% of our earnings, we own and manage several non-utility businesses that operate in a competitive environment. The customers of these businesses have a choice of suppliers. Items that may risk the future operations of these businesses include availability of capital, changes in local, state and federal laws, changes in environmental laws, commodity costs, economic conditions, weather and increased competition. Accounting Standards: The application of our critical accounting policies reflects complex judgments and estimates. These policies include industry specific accounting applicable to regulated public utilities and accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets, pension and other postretirement benefit plans, unbilled revenue and allowance for doubtful accounts. The adoption of new generally accepted accounting policies or changes to current accounting policies or interpretations of such policies may materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None for Energy East or RG&E. 