Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business We operate in highly competitive industries, and competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business. The alcoholic beverages production and distribution industries in our region are intensely competitive. The principal competitive factors in these industries include product range, pricing, distribution capabilities and responsiveness to consumer preferences, with varying emphasis on these factors depending on the market and the product. In Poland, we face significant competition from various regional distributors and wholesalers, who compete principally on price. The effect of this competition could adversely affect our results of operations. The majority of alcohol sales in Poland are still made through traditional trade outlets. Other sales are made in hypermarkets and large discount stores. In Russia, hypermarket and large retail chains continue to grow their share of the trade. Traditional trade outlets typically provide us with higher margins from sales as compared to hypermarkets and large retail chains. There is a risk that the expansion of hypermarkets and large retail chains will continue to occur in the future, thus 16 Table of Contents reducing the margins that we may derive from sales to wholesalers that primarily serve the traditional trade. This potential margin reduction, however, will be partially offset by lower distribution costs due to direct, bulk deliveries associated with sales to the modern trade. As a manufacturer of vodka in Poland and Russia, we face competition from other local producers. We compete with other alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages for consumer purchases in general, as well as shelf space in retail stores, restaurant presence and distributor attention. In addition, we compete for customers on the basis of the brand strength of our products relative to our competitors’ products. Our success depends on maintaining the strength of our consumer brands by continuously improving our offerings and appealing to the changing needs and preferences of our customers and consumers. While we devote significant resources to the continuous improvement of our products and marketing strategies, it is possible that competitors may make similar improvements more rapidly or effectively, thereby adversely affecting our sales, margins and profitability. Our results are linked to economic conditions and shifts in consumer preferences, including a reduction in the consumption of alcoholic beverages. Our results of operations are affected by the overall economic trends in Poland, Russia and Hungary, the level of consumer spending, the rate of taxes levied on alcoholic beverages and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. The current negative economic conditions and outlook, including volatility in energy costs, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, falling equity market values, weakened consumer confidence, falling consumer demand, declining real wages and increased unemployment rates, have contributed to a global recession. The effects of the global recession in many countries, including Poland and Russia, have been quite severe and it is possible that an economic recovery in those countries will take longer to develop. During the current period of economic slowdown, reduced consumer confidence and spending may result in reduced demand for our products and limitations on our ability to increase prices and finance marketing and promotional activities. A continued recessionary environment would likely make it more difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments, and a major shift in consumer preferences or a large reduction in sales of alcoholic beverages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Loss of key management would threaten our ability to implement our business strategy. The management of future growth will require our ability to retain William Carey, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, as well as certain other key members of management. William Carey, who founded our company, has been a key person in our ability to implement our business plan and grow our business. Changes in the prices of supplies and raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business. Prices for raw materials used for vodka production may take place in the future, and our inability to pass on these increases to our customers could reduce our margins and profits and have a material adverse effect on our business. We recently constructed storage tanks in Poland that will store up to six months’ use of raw spirit, which allows us to purchase raw spirit throughout the year at times when there are dips in raw spirit pricing. However, we cannot assure you that the price of raw spirits will not continue to increase or that we will not lose the ability to maintain our inventory of raw spirits, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We are exposed to exchange rate and interest rate movements that could adversely affect our financial results and comparability of our results between financial periods. Our functional currencies are the Polish zloty, Russian ruble and Hungarian forint. Our reporting currency, however, is the U.S. dollar, and the translation effects of fluctuations in exchange rates of our functional currencies into U.S. dollars may materially impact our financial condition and net income and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. In addition, our senior secured notes and our convertible senior notes are denominated in euros and U.S. dollars and the proceeds of the note issuances have been on-lent to certain of our operating subsidiaries that have the Polish zloty and Russian ruble as their functional currency. Movements in the exchange rate of the euro and U.S. dollar to Polish zloty and Russian ruble could therefore increase the amount of cash, in Polish zloty, that must be generated in order to pay principal and interest on our notes. The impact of translation of our notes could have a material adverse effect on our reported earnings. The table below summarizes the pre-tax impact of a one percent movement in each of the exchange rate which could result in a significant impact in the results of the Company’s operations. Exchange Rate Value of notional amount Pre-tax impact of a 1% movement in exchange rate USD-Polish zloty $426 million $4.3 million gain/loss USD-Russian ruble $264 million $2.6 million gain/loss EUR-Polish zloty €625 million or approximately $901 million $9 million gain/loss The table above includes €245 million for the Senior Secured Notes that were redeemed on January 4, 2010, thus there will not be any foreign exchange impact from them after this date. Foreign exchange rates may be influenced by various factors, including changing supply and demand for a particular currency; government monetary policies (including exchange control programs, restrictions on local exchanges or markets and limitations on foreign investment in a country or on investment by residents of a country in other countries); changes in trade balances; trade restrictions; and currency devaluations and revaluations. Additionally, governments from time to time intervene in currency markets, directly or by regulation, in order to influence prices. These events and actions are unpredictable and could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Weather conditions may have a material adverse effect on our sales or on the price of grain used to produce spirits. We operate in an industry where performance is affected by the weather. Changes in weather conditions may result in lower consumption of vodka and other alcoholic beverages. In particular, unusually cold spells in winter or high temperatures in the summer can result in temporary shifts in customer preferences and impact demand for the alcoholic beverages we produce and distribute. Similar weather conditions in the future may have a material adverse effect on our sales which could affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, inclement weather may affect the availability of grain used to produce raw spirit, which could result in a rise in raw spirit pricing that could negatively affect margins and sales. We are subject to extensive government regulation; changes in or violations of law or regulations could materially adversely affect our business and profitability. Our business of producing, importing and distributing alcoholic beverages in Poland and Hungary is subject to regulation by national and local governmental agencies and European Union authorities. In addition, our business in Russia is subject to extensive regulation by Russian authorities. These regulations and laws address such matters as licensing and permit requirements, competition and anti-trust matters, trade and pricing practices, 18 Table of Contents taxes, distribution methods and relationships, required labeling and packaging, advertising, sales promotion and relations with wholesalers and retailers. Additionally, new or revised regulations or requirements or increases in excise taxes, customs duties, income taxes, or sales taxes could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to numerous environmental and occupational, health and safety laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. We may incur significant costs to maintain compliance with evolving environmental and occupational, health and safety requirements, to comply with more stringent enforcement of existing applicable requirements or to defend against challenges or investigations, even those without merit. Future legal or regulatory challenges to the industry in which we operate or our business practices and arrangements could give rise to liability and fines, or cause us to change our practices or arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on us, our revenues and our profitability. Governmental regulation and supervision as well as future changes in laws, regulations or government policy (or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations) that affect us, our competitors or our industry generally strongly influence our viability and how we operate our business. Complying with existing regulations is burdensome, and future changes may increase our operational and administrative expenses and limit our revenues. For example, we are currently required to have permits to produce and import products, maintain and operate our warehouses, and distribute our products to wholesalers. Many of these permits, such as our general permit for wholesale trade, must be renewed when they expire. Although we believe that our permits will be renewed upon their expiration, there is no guarantee that such will be the case. Revocation or non-renewal of permits that are material to our business could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our permits could also be revoked prior to their expiration date due to nonpayment of taxes or violation of health requirements. Additionally, governmental regulatory and tax authorities have a high degree of discretion and may at times exercise this discretion in a manner contrary to law or established practice. Such conduct can be more prevalent in jurisdictions with less developed or evolving regulatory systems like Russia. Our business would be materially and adversely affected if there were any adverse changes in relevant laws or regulations or in their interpretation or enforcement. Our ability to introduce new products and services may also be affected if we cannot predict how existing or future laws, regulations or policies would apply to such products or services. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We own and license trademarks (for, among other things, our product names and packaging) and other intellectual property rights that are important to our business and competitive position, and we endeavor to protect them. However, we cannot assure you that the steps we have taken or will take will be sufficient to protect our intellectual property rights or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. In addition, we cannot assure you that third parties will not infringe on or misappropriate our rights, imitate our products, or assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license and/or market. In some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks or to similar marks. Moreover, Russia generally offers less intellectual property protection than in Western Europe or North America. We are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands and other proceedings, both in the United States and elsewhere. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights against infringement or misappropriation, or if others assert rights in or seek to invalidate our intellectual property rights, this could materially harm our future financial results and our ability to develop our business. Our import contracts may be terminated. As a leading importer of major international brands of alcoholic beverages in Poland and Hungary, we have been working with the same suppliers in those countries for many years and either have verbal understandings or written distribution agreements with them. In addition, we have recently acquired distribution contracts in Russia through our significant economic interest in Whitehall. Where a written agreement is in place, it is usually valid for between one and five years and is terminable by either party on three to six months’ notice. 19 Table of Contents Although we believe we are currently in compliance with the terms and conditions of our import and distribution agreements, there is no assurance that all our import agreements will continue to be renewed on a regular basis, or that, if they are terminated, we will be able to replace them with alternative arrangements with other suppliers. Moreover, our ability to continue to distribute imported products on an exclusive basis depends on some factors which are out of our control, such as ongoing consolidation in the wine, beer and spirit industry worldwide, or producers’ decisions from time to time to change their distribution channels, including in the markets in which we operate. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we undertake acquisitions of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate. At any particular time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion and negotiation with regard to one or more potential acquisitions, not all of which will be consummated. We make public disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate and required by applicable securities laws and regulations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties. If we complete one or more acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be affected by a number of factors, including: the failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the financial results we have projected in either the near or long term; the assumption of unknown liabilities; the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed; the difficulties of imposing adequate financial and operating controls on the acquired companies and their management and the potential liabilities that might arise pending the imposition of adequate controls; the challenges of preparing and consolidating financial statements of acquired companies in a timely manner; the difficulties in integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies; and the failure to achieve the strategic objectives of these acquisitions. In addition, we may acquire a significant, but non-controlling, stake in a business, which could expose us to the risk of decisions taken by the acquired business’ controlling shareholder. For example, we do not currently have a majority of the voting power in Whitehall and although we have negotiated contractual rights to board representation and other matters of corporate governance, we are subject to decisions of the controlling shareholder in a way that we are not with our subsidiaries that we wholly-own or control and cannot assure you that our contractual rights will in all instances be sufficient to protect our interests. Acquisitions in developing economies, such as Russia, involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Future acquisitions or mergers may result in a need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt, liabilities or amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could reduce our profitability. Sustained periods of high inflation in Russia may materially adversely affect our business there. Russia has experienced periods of high levels of inflation since the early 1990s. Despite the fact that inflation has remained relatively stable in Russia during the past few years, our profit margins from our Russian business could be adversely affected if we are unable to sufficiently increase our prices to offset any significant future increase in the inflation rate. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Russian Alcohol transaction The success of the Russian Alcohol transaction will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and our ability to combine the businesses of the Company and Russian Alcohol in a manner that does not materially disrupt existing relationships or otherwise result in decreased productivity. If we are unable to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. 20 Table of Contents The integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our or Russian Alcohol’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures or policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with third parties and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction. To realize the benefits of the transaction, we must retain Russian Alcohol’s key employees. Among other things, in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger we must identify and eliminate redundant operations and assets across a geographically dispersed organization. Integration efforts between the two companies could also divert management attention and resources. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the transaction, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. Actual cost synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than we expect and may take longer to achieve than we anticipate. If we are not able to adequately address these challenges, the Company may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of Russian Alcohol, or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of the two companies. The developing legal system in Russia creates a number of uncertainties that could adversely affect our Russian business. Russia is still developing the legal framework required to support a market economy, which creates uncertainty relating to our Russian business. We have limited experience operating in Russia, which could increase our vulnerability to the risks relating to these uncertainties. Risks related to the developing legal system in Russia include: • inconsistencies between and among the Constitution, federal and regional laws, presidential decrees and governmental, ministerial and local orders, decisions, resolutions and other acts; • conflicting local, regional and federal rules and regulations; • the lack of judicial and administrative guidance on interpreting legislation; • the relative inexperience of judges and courts in interpreting legislation; • the lack of an independent judiciary; • a high degree of discretion on the part of governmental authorities, which could result in arbitrary or selective actions against us, including suspension or termination of licenses we need to operate in Russia; • poorly developed bankruptcy procedures that are subject to abuse; and • incidents or periods of high crime or corruption that could disrupt our ability to conduct our business effectively. The recent nature of much of Russian legislation, the lack of consensus about the scope, content and pace of economic and political reform and the rapid evolution of this legal system in ways that may not always coincide with market developments place the enforceability and underlying constitutionality of laws in doubt and result in ambiguities, inconsistencies and anomalies. Any of these factors could adversely affect our Russian business. An unpredictable tax system in Russia gives rise to significant uncertainties and risks that complicate our tax planning and decisions relating to our Russian business. The tax system in Russia is unpredictable and gives rise to significant uncertainties, which complicate our tax planning and decisions relating to our Russian business. Tax laws in Russia have been in force for a relatively short period of time as compared to tax laws in more developed market economies and we have less experience operating under Russian tax regulations than those of other countries. 21 Table of Contents Russian companies are subject to a broad range of taxes imposed at the federal, regional and local levels, including but not limited to value added tax, excise duties, profit tax, payroll-related taxes, property taxes, taxes or other liabilities related to transfer pricing and other taxes. Russia’s federal and local tax laws and regulations are subject to frequent change, varying interpretations and inconsistent or unclear enforcement. It is not uncommon for differing opinions regarding legal interpretation to exist both between companies subject to such taxes and the ministries and organizations of the Russian government and between different branches of the Russian government such as the Federal Tax Service and its various local tax inspectorates, resulting in uncertainties and areas of conflict. Tax declarations are subject to review and investigation by a number of tax authorities, which are enabled by law to impose penalties and interest charges. The fact that a tax declaration has been audited by tax authorities does not bar that declaration, or any other tax declaration applicable to that year, from a further tax review by a superior tax authority during a three-year period. As previous audits do not exclude subsequent claims relating to the audited period, the statute of limitations is not entirely effective. In some instances, even though it may potentially be considered unconstitutional, Russian tax authorities have applied certain taxes retroactively. Within the past few years the Russian tax authorities appear to be taking a more aggressive position in their interpretation of the legislation and assessments, and it is possible that transactions and activities that have not been challenged in the past may be challenged. As a result, significant additional taxes, penalties and interest may be assessed. In addition, our Russian business is and will be subject to periodic tax inspections that may result in tax assessments and additional amounts owed by us for prior tax periods. Uncertainty relating to Russian transfer pricing rules could lead tax authorities to impose significant additional tax liabilities as a result of transfer pricing adjustments or other similar claims, and could have a material adverse effect on our Russian businesses and our company as a whole. Russian Alcohol was not required to comply with the provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley and, therefore, we cannot assure you that the financial results of Russian Alcohol do not contain deficiencies in their control over financial reporting that could lead to a material weakness. In the second quarter of 2009 we began reporting Russian Alcohol’s financial results on a consolidated basis with ours. As a private company, Russian Alcohol has not historically complied with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”). While we have evaluated the financial results of Russian Alcohol, we have not integrated Russian Alcohol’s internal controls with our Sarbanes-Oxley compliant internal controls and cannot ensure that Russian Alcohol’s controls will comply with the rules applicable to U.S. public companies. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the financial results of Russian Alcohol do not contain deficiencies in their control over financial reporting that could lead to a material weakness. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our notes. We are highly leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2009 our indebtedness under our notes, other credit facilities and capital leases amounted to approximately $1,798 million. Our substantial debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our notes and for the guarantors of our notes to satisfy their obligations with respect to the guarantees; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt, which will reduce our cashflow available to fund capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate purposes; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt than we do; 22 Table of Contents • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes to our industry; • increase our vulnerability, and reduce our flexibility to respond, to general and industry specific adverse economic conditions; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, increase the cost of any such borrowing and/or limit our ability to raise equity funding. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future. The terms of the indentures governing our notes restrict our ability to incur, but will not prohibit us from incurring, additional debt. If we were to incur additional debt, the related risks we now face could become greater. We require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on or repay our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance and ability to generate sufficient cash. This depends, to some extent, on general economic, financial, competitive, market, legislative, regulatory and other factors discussed in these “Risk Factors,” many of which are beyond our control. Historically, we met our debt service and other cash requirements with cash flows from operations and our existing revolving credit facilities. As a result of certain acquisitions and related financing transactions, however, our debt service requirements have increased significantly. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities, or that future debt and equity financing will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debts when due or to fund our other financing needs. If our future cash flows from operations and other capital resources are insufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to: • reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures; • sell assets; • obtain additional debt or equity capital; or • restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, including our notes, on or before maturity. In addition, the terms of the indentures governing our notes limit our ability to pursue any of these alternatives. If we obtain additional debt financing, the related risks we now face would intensify. Furthermore, significant changes in market liquidity conditions resulting in a tightening in the credit markets and a reduction in the availability of debt and equity capital could impact our access to funding and our related funding costs, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain and manage liquidity, to obtain additional capital and to restructure or refinance any of our existing debt. We must rely on payments from our subsidiaries to make cash payments on our notes, and our subsidiaries are subject to various restrictions on making such payments. We are a holding company and hold most of our assets at, and conduct most of our operations through, direct and indirect subsidiaries. In order to make payments on our notes or to meet our other obligations, we depend upon receiving payments from our subsidiaries. In particular, we may be dependant on dividends and other payments by our direct and indirect subsidiaries to service our obligations. Investors in our notes will not have any direct claim on the cash flow or assets of our non-guarantor operating subsidiaries and our non-guarantor operating subsidiaries have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay amounts due under our notes or the subsidiary guarantees, or to make funds available to us for those payments. In addition, the payment 23 Table of Contents of dividends and the making of loans and advances to us by our subsidiaries may be subject to various restrictions. Existing and future debt of certain of these subsidiaries may prohibit the payment of dividends or the making of loans or advances to us. In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments, loans or advances to us may be limited by the laws of the relevant jurisdictions in which such subsidiaries are organized or located. Any of the situations described above could make it more difficult for a subsidiary guarantor to service its obligations and therefore adversely affect our ability to service our obligations in respect of our notes. If payments are not made to us by our subsidiaries, we may not have any other sources of funds available that would permit us to make payments on our notes. Covenant restrictions under the indentures governing our notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to operate our business and consequently to make payments on our notes. The indentures governing our notes will contain, and other financing arrangements that we may enter into in the future may contain, covenants that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to take advantage of other business opportunities that may be in our interest. These covenants restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • make certain restricted payments; • transfer or sell assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create certain liens; • create restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or other payments; • issue guarantees of indebtedness by restricted subsidiaries; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • merge, consolidate, amalgamate or combine with other entities; • designate restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and • engage in any business other than a permitted business. Events beyond our control, including changes in general business and economic conditions, may affect our ability to meet these requirements. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the indentures governing our notes. Enforcing legal liability against us and our directors and officers might be difficult. We are organized under the laws of the State of Delaware of the United States. Therefore, investors are able to effect service of process in the United States upon us and may be able to effect service of process upon our directors and executive officers. We are a holding company, however, and substantially all of our operating assets are located in Poland, Hungary and, in connection with our recently completed acquisitions, Russia. Further, most of our directors and executive officers, and those of most of our subsidiaries, are non-residents of the United States, and our assets and the assets of our directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. As a result, you may not be able to enforce against our assets (or those of certain of our directors or executive officers) judgments of United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of United States laws, including federal securities laws of the United States. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the United States or elsewhere may not be enforceable in Poland or Russia. 24 Table of Contents 