Risk Factors," that may cause our or our industry's actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. For example, assumptions that could cause actual results to vary materially from future results include, but are not limited to: our ability to successfully develop and market our products to customers; our ability to generate customer demand for our products in our target markets; the development of our target markets and market opportunities; our ability to manufacture suitable products at competitive cost; market pricing for our products and for competing products; the extent of increasing competition; technological developments in our target markets and the development of alternate, competing technologies in them; and sales of shares by existing shareholders. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Unless we are required to do so under federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction eMagin Corporation (“eMagin, “we,” “our,” or “us,”) is a leader in the manufacture of microdisplays using OLED (organic light emitting diode) technology. We design, develop, manufacture, and market OLED on silicon microdisplays, virtual imaging products that utilize OLED microdisplays, and related products. We also perform research in the OLED field. Our virtual imaging products integrate OLED technology with silicon chips to produce high-resolution microdisplays smaller than one-inch diagonally which, when viewed through a magnifier, create virtual images that appear comparable in size to that of a computer monitor or a large-screen television. Our products enable our original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) customers to develop and market improved or new electronic products, especially products that are mobile and highly portable so that people have immediate access to information and may experience immersive forms of communications and entertainment. We believe our OLED microdisplays offer a number of significant advantages over comparable liquid crystal microdisplays (LCDs and LCOS) including greatly increased power efficiency, less weight, more compact size, negligible image smearing and dramatically higher contrast. Using our active matrix OLED technology, many computer and electronic system functions can be built directly into the OLED microdisplay silicon backplane, resulting in compact, high resolution, power efficient systems. Already proven in military and commercial systems, our portfolio of OLED microdisplays deliver high-resolution, flicker-free virtual images, working effectively even in extreme temperatures and high-vibration conditions We have developed our own intellectual property and accumulated over 10 years of manufacturing know-how to create high performance OLED microdisplays. eMagin Corporation was created through the merger of Fashion Dynamics Corporation ("FDC"), which was organized on January 23, 1996 under the laws of the State of Nevada and FED Corporation ("FED"), a developer and manufacturer of optical systems and microdisplays for use in the electronics industry. Simultaneous with this merger, we changed our name to eMagin Corporation. eMagin is incorporated in the state of Delaware. We derive the majority of our revenue from sales of our OLED microdisplay products. We also generate revenue from sales of optics, microdisplays combined with optics (“microviewers”), and virtual imaging systems. In addition we earn revenue from both government and commercial development contracts that in some cases complement and support our internal research and development programs. Our Technology Platforms Small Molecule, Top-Emitting Active Matrix OLED Technology There are two basic classes of OLED technology, dubbed single molecule or small molecule (monomer) and polymer. Our microdisplays are currently based upon active matrix small molecule OLED technology, which we refer to as active matrix OLED (“AMOLED”) because we build the displays directly onto silicon chips. Our AMOLED technology uniquely permits millions of individual low-voltage light sources to be built on low-cost, silicon computer chips to produce single color, white or full-color display arrays. Using our OLED technology, many computer and video electronic system functions can be built directly into the silicon chip, under the OLED film, resulting in very compact, integrated systems with lower overall system costs relative to alternative technologies. OLEDs are thin films of stable organic materials that emit light of various colors when a voltage is impressed across them. OLEDs are emissive devices, which mean they create their own light, as opposed to liquid crystal displays, which require a separate light source. As a result, our OLED microdisplays use less power and can be capable of higher brightness and fuller color than liquid crystal microdisplays. Because the light they emit is Lambertian, which means that it appears equally bright from most forward directions, a moderate movement in the eye does not change the image brightness or color as it does in other technologies. We have developed numerous and significant enhancements to OLED microdisplay technology as well as key silicon circuit designs to effectively incorporate the OLED film on a silicon integrated circuit. For example, we have developed a unique, top-emitting structure for our OLED devices that enables OLED displays to be built on opaque silicon integrated circuits rather than only on glass. Our OLED microdisplays emit full visible spectrum light that is isolated with color filters to create full color images. Our microdisplays have a brightness that can be greater than that of a typical notebook computer and can have a potential useful life of over 50,000 operating hours, in certain applications. New materials and device improvements, such as our recently developed OLED-XL™ technology, offer the potential for even better performance for brightness, efficiency, and lifespan. In addition to our active matrix OLED technology, we have developed compact optic and lens enhancements which, when coupled with the microdisplay, provide the high quality large screen appearance that we believe a large proportion of the marketplace demands. 4 Table of Contents We believe that our AMOLED technology provides significant advantages over other microdisplay technologies in our targeted microdisplay markets. We believe these key advantages include: • Low power consumption for improved battery life and longer system life; • High-speed performance resulting in clear video images; • Wide angle light emission resulting in large apparent screen size; • Wide operating temperature range; • Good environmental stability (vibration and humidity); • Low manufacturing cost; and • Low cost system solutions. Prism Optics High quality, large view lenses with a wide range for eye positioning are essential for using our displays in near-eye systems. We have developed advanced molded plastic prism lenses that permit our AMOLED microdisplays to provide large field of view images that can be viewed for extended periods with reduced eye-fatigue. We have engaged a firm to manufacture our lenses in order to provide them in larger quantities to our customers and are using them in certain of our own systems. Our Market Opportunities The markets we target broadly fall into the categories of military, industrial/medical, and consumer though many products serve multiple markets (“dual use”). Within each of these market sectors, we believe that our OLED microdisplays, when combined with compact optic lenses, will become a key component for a number of mobile electronic products. Many of these products employ head-wearable displays that incorporate microdisplays mounted in or on eyeglasses, goggles, simple headbands, helmets, or hardhats, and are often referred to as head-mounted displays (HMDs) or headsets. Head-wearable displays may block out surroundings for a fully immersive experience, or be designed as "see-through" or "see-around" to the user's surroundings. They may contain one (monocular) or two (binocular) displays. Some of the increased current interest is due to accelerating the timetable to adapt such systems for military and commercial pilot’s aviation helmets and consumer virtual and augmented reality applications. Microdisplays are also widely used in camera viewfinders and some OLED microdisplays are being introduced in this market. Military/Aviation Properly implemented, we believe that head-mounted systems incorporating our microdisplays increases the user’s effectiveness by allowing hands-free operation and increasing situational awareness with enough brightness for use in daylight, yet controllable for nighttime light security. As a COTS (commercial off the shelf) component, OLED microdisplays intrinsically demonstrate performance characteristics important to military and other demanding commercial and industrial applications, including high contrast, wide dimming range, shock and vibration resistance and insensitivity to high G-forces. The image does not suffer from flicker or color breakup in vibrating environments, and the microdisplay's wide viewing angle allows ease of viewing for long periods of time. Most importantly, our OLED's very low power consumption reduces battery weight and increases allowed mission length. The OLED's inherent wide temperature tolerance range is of special interest for military applications because the display can turn on instantly at temperatures far below freezing and can operate at very high temperatures in desert conditions. Our microdisplay products provide power advantages over other microdisplay technologies, particularly liquid crystal displays which require backlights and heaters and cannot provide instant-on capabilities at low temperatures. Our products’ military applications primarily fall into three broad areas: (1) helmet-mounted displays for situational awareness and data, (2) night vision/thermal imaging goggles and viewers, and (3) training and simulation devices. Similar systems are of interest for other military applications as well as for demanding operations such as urban security, homeland defense, fire and rescue. Situational Awareness. Situational awareness products include head-mounted displays that are used to display such things as digital map, sensor imagery and pilot aviation information. Handheld imagers also provide improved situational awareness for surveillance and training. In certain situations these products are combined with a weapon system in order to give the user the capability of selecting targets without direct exposure. Our OLED microdisplays have been incorporated into both U.S. and foreign military situational awareness programs. The use of OLED microdisplays for aviation helmets is possible because of newly developed high brightness OLED technology at eMagin. Night Vision/Thermal Imaging. Night vision goggles allow the user to see in low light conditions. Most versions include two different technologies: infrared/thermal and image intensification. Third and fourth generation military devices usually use some combination of the two modes. Thermal imagers detect infrared energy (heat) and convert it into an electronic signal. The resulting signal needs to be presented on a display. Heat sensed by an infrared camera can be very precisely quantified, or measured, allowing the user to not only monitor thermal performance, but also identify and evaluate the relative severity of heat-related problems. 5 Table of Contents Thermal imaging systems can be stand-alone handheld systems or integrated as part of the aiming mechanism for a larger system. Advances in sensor technology, both in sensitivity and resolution as well as economic efficiency, have been the driving factors in the adoption of thermal technologies for military applications. The power efficiency and environmental ruggedness of our products are strong competitive advantages, particularly for small handheld non-cooled systems. Fielded products incorporating eMagin OLED microdisplays include Northrop Grumman’s Lightweight Laser Designator Rangefinders (LLDR), Thales SOPHIE™ handheld thermal imagers, and Thales MINIE™, LUCIE™, and MONIE™ night vision goggles. Training and Simulation. Our OLED microdisplays are used by OEMs for use with their simulation and training products. The companies that incorporate our OLEDs in their training and simulation products include: Quantum 3D, Rockwell Collins, Intevac Vision Systems, and Sensics. Our displays have been commercialized or prototyped for situational awareness and night vision/thermal imaging applications by military systems integrators including Elbit, L-3 Communications, Intevac Vision Systems, Nivisys, BAE Systems Technology, Qioptiq, Rockwell Collins, Saab, Sagem DS, and Thales, among many others, as well as for related operations such as urban security, fire and rescue. Commercial, Industrial, and Medical We believe that a wide variety of commercial and industrial markets offer significant opportunities for our products due to increasing demand for instant data accessibility in mobile workplaces. Some examples of potential microdisplay applications include: immediate access to inventory such as parts, tools and equipment availability; instant accessibility to maintenance or construction manuals; routine quality assurance inspection; endoscopic surgery; and real-time viewing of images and data for a variety of applications. As one potential example, a user wearing a HMD while using test equipment, such as oscilloscopes, can view technical data while simultaneously probing printed circuit boards. Current commercial products equipped with our OLED microdisplays in these sectors include those produced by Liteye, FLIR Systems, Nordic NeuroLab, VRmagic GmbH, Sensics and Total Fire Group, among others. Consumer We believe that the most significant driver of the longer term near-eye virtual imaging microdisplay market is growing consumer demand for mobile access to larger volumes of information and entertainment in smaller packages. This desire for mobility has resulted in the development of mobile video personal viewer products in two general categories: (i) an emerging market for augmented reality electronic viewers incorporated in products such as data glasses and personal viewers for cell phones and (ii) an emerging market for immersive virtual reality headset-application platforms such as accessories for gaming computers, portable DVD systems and wearable telepresence systems. As our OLED displays are manufactured in increasingly higher volumes at reduced costs, we believe that our OLED microdisplay products will be increasingly well positioned to compete with and displace liquid crystal displays in the rapidly growing consumer market as demand for higher-resolution and better image quality evolves to meet the wish for more sophisticated Personal Viewers. Examples of potential applications for mobile Personal Viewers include handheld personal computers and mobile devices, like smartphones, whose small, direct view screens limit the amount of information that can be displayed, but which are now capable of running software applications that would benefit from a larger display accessory, applications where hands-free viewing is desired, such as during maintenance activities and entertainment and gaming video headset systems, which permit individuals to privately view television, including HDTV, video CDs, DVDs and video games on virtual large screens or stereovision. Our Products Our first commercial microdisplay, SVGA+ OLED, was introduced in 2001. In 2008, we introduced engineering samples of our SXGA OLED microdisplays and began selling significant quantities of the SXGA product in 2010. In late 2011, we began selling pre-production samples of the WUXGA OLED microdisplays. In early 2015, we released our Digital SVGA for production. eMagin OLED display products are being applied or considered for near-eye and headset applications in products to be manufactured by OEM customers for a wide variety of military, medical, industrial, and consumer applications. We offer our products to OEMs and other buyers as both separate components, integrated bundles coupled with our own optics, or full systems. We also offer engineering support to enable customers to quickly integrate our products into their own product development programs and offer design of customized displays with resolutions or features to meet special customer requirements. SVGA+ OLED Microdisplay Series (Super Video Graphics Array of 852x600). This 0.62 inch diagonal microdisplay has a resolution of 852x600 triad pixels (1.53 million picture elements). The display also has an internal NTSC monochrome video decoder for low power night vision systems. SVGA+ Rev3 OLED-XL microdisplay is a power efficient OLED display solution for near-eye personal viewer applications which uses less than 115 mW power in monochrome for thermal imaging applications, and lower than 175 mW at 400 cd/m2 (60Hz video at 70 cd/m2) for full color video. This microdisplay has simpler calibration over temperature and is ideal for demanding binocular luminance and color matching. 6 Table of Contents SXGA OLED-XL (Super eXtended Graphics Array, 1280 x 1024). Our SXGA OLED microdisplay with a 0.77 inch diagonal active area provides 3,932,160 sub-pixels in an active area. The display’s triad pixel array comprises triads of vertical sub-pixels stacked side by side to make up each 12 x 12mm color pixel. The SXGA OLED-XL microdisplay offers digital signal processing, requiring less than 200mW under typical operation. The supported video formats are SXGA, 720p, DVGA (through 1280 x 960 pixel doubling), and both frame sequential and field sequential stereovision. WUXGA OLED-XL (Widescreen Ultra eXtended Graphics Array, 1920 x 1200). Our WUXGA OLED-XL microdisplay provides higher resolution than most HD (High Definition) flat screen televisions. With a triad sub-pixel structure this display is built of 7,138,360 active dots at 3.2 microns each. The WUXGA OLED-XL is built upon the voltage pixel drive approach first developed for the SXGA OLED-XL which provides improved uniformity, ultra-high contrast (measured at greater than 100,000:1) and lower power. The advanced WUXGA design features eMagin’s proprietary “Deep Black” architecture that ensures that off-pixels are truly black, automatically optimizes contrast under all conditions, and delivers better pixel to pixel uniformity. The WUXGA OLED-XL includes a very low-power, low-voltage-differential-signaling (LVDS) serial interface and the overall display power requirement is typically less than 350 mW running standard video. Also included is eMagin’s proprietary motion enhancement technology which smoothes video display and virtually eliminates unwanted artifacts. Like the SXGA, the WUXGA provides a FPGA driver design available on a separate, lower power driver board, or as source code for integration into end product electronics giving OEM developers maximum versatility and flexibility. On-board circuitry ensures consistent color and brightness over a wide range of operating temperatures. VGA OLED-XL (Video Graphics Array, 640 x 480). The VGA OLED-XL microdisplay was added to eMagin’s product line in April 2011 and is our smallest (0.5 inches) and lowest powered (<60 mW monochrome/<100 mW color). The VGA OLED-XL utilizes the same voltage pixel drive architecture and “Deep Black” technology as the SXGA and WUXGA designs and includes motion artifact reduction technology like the WUXGA. Also like the SXGA and WUXGA, the VGA provides a FPGA driver design for maximum flexibility and versatility. The VGA interface is 30-bit digital RGB. Digital SVGA OLED-XL. The Digital SVGA or DSVGA OLED-XL was just released for production in early 2015. This is an 800 x 600 display with 15 micron pixels and a 0.6 inch diagonal. It has all the benefits of eMagin’s other digital displays including lower power (100 mW monochrome and 135 mW color), high 10,000 to 1 contrast, and provides the highest operating luminance of any SVGA OLED microdisplay to the best of our knowledge. Lens and Design Reference Kits. We offer a WF05 prism optic with mounting brackets or combined with OLED microdisplays to form an optic-display module. We provide Design Reference Kits, which include a microdisplay and associated electronics to help OEMs evaluate our microdisplay products and to assist their efforts to build and test new products incorporating our microdisplays. Integrated Modules. We provide near-eye virtual imaging modules that incorporate our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays with our lenses and electronic interfaces for integration into OEM products. We have shipped customized modules to several customers, some of which have incorporated our products into their own commercial products. Headsets (“HMDs”) Our Z800 3DVisors™ headset was discontinued in 2014 and will be replaced with our Immersive Head Mounted Display (IHMD), which we anticipate will be available in small quantities in 2015. We must comply with all applicable export control laws including the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”) and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”). Certain of our products may be deemed to be controlled for export by the U.S. Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security under the EAR or by the U.S. State Department’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (“DDTC”) under the ITAR. Failure to comply with these export control laws can lead to severe penalties, both civil and criminal, and can include debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government. Government Contract Funding We derive a portion of our revenue from funding that we receive pursuant to research contracts or subcontracts funded by various agencies of the United States Government. The revenue that we recognize from these contracts represents reimbursement by various government entities. In 2007, we were awarded a contract for the development of power efficient microdisplays for the United States Army Night Vision and Electronic Sensors Directorate (“NVESD”). In 2008, this agreement was renewed through 2010; it was renewed again though 2011. In 2010, we were awarded a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement by NVESD for the Development, Evaluation and Characterization of Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode (AMOLED) for use in HMDs. In 2007, we were awarded a contract for the development of an ultra-high resolution display for United States Army Telemedicine and Advanced Technology Research Center (“TATRC”). In 2008 and 2009, this agreement was renewed through the first quarter of 2012. In February 2012, we were awarded a Small Business Innovation Research contract by the United States Special Operations Command to optimize our WUXGA (1920x1200) microdisplay for mass production for dual use applications. 7 Table of Contents The U.S. Navy awarded eMagin a contract in 2011 for research and development of microdisplays using Silicon on Insulator technology. In 2012, we were awarded a follow-on contract for development of a high-brightness, high resolution microdisplay to be used for head-mounted avionics applications. Work on this contract continued throughout 2013 and was completed in 2014. In 2014, eMagin was awarded several new R&D contracts totaling over $7 million. The largest of these was a contract to develop and produce an ultra-high resolution, high brightness, high contrast, full color OLED microdisplay at a low unit cost. This Defense-wide Manufacturing Science & Technology (DMS&T) award (also known as Mantech) is funded by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and logistics (USD AT&L) and will be administered by the US Army RDECOM CERDEC Night Vision and Electronic Sensors Directorate (NVESD) Science and Technology (S&T) Division. The $6.3 million dollar contract will be executed over the next two years. Our government contracts require us to conduct the research effort described in the statement of work section of the contract. These contracts may be modified or terminated at the discretion of the government and are subject to authorization, appropriation and allocation of the required funding on an annual basis. On contracts for which we are the prime contractor, we subcontract portions of the work to various entities and institutions. Approximately 4% of 2014 revenue was related to research contracts funded by the U.S. Government as compared to 3% in 2013. Our Strategy Our strategy is to strengthen our leadership position as a worldwide supplier of microdisplays and virtual imaging technology solutions for applications in high growth segments of the electronics industry by capitalizing on our experience and expertise in active matrix OLED technology. We aim to provide microdisplays and complementary accessories to enable OEM customers to develop and manufacture new and enhanced electronic products. Some key elements of our strategy to achieve these objectives include the following: • Strengthen our technology leadership. As the first to exploit AMOLED microdisplays and the only benefactor of U.S. Government Contract Research and Development programs for OLED microdisplays, we believe that we enjoy a significant advantage in bringing this technology to market. By continuing to invest in research and development, and protecting our intellectual property, we expect to further develop performance improvements and provide a competitive edge for our customers who integrate our displays into their end products. • Optimize microdisplay manufacturing efficiencies while protecting proprietary processes. We intend to reduce our production costs primarily through increasing manufacturing yield and lowering fixed costs through reduced cycle time and increased automation, as well as equipment upgrades. We outsource certain portions of microdisplay production, such as chip fabrication, to minimize both our costs and time to market. We intend to retain the OLED-related processes in-house, where we have a core competency and manufacturing expertise. We also believe that by keeping these processes under tight control we can better protect our proprietary technology and process know-how. We believe that this strategy will also enhance our ability to continue to optimize and customize processes and devices to meet customer needs. • Build and maintain strong design capabilities. We employ in-house design capabilities supplemented by outsourced design services. Building and maintaining this capability allows us to reduce engineering costs, accelerate the design process and enhance design accuracy to respond to our customers' needs as new markets develop. Contracting third party design support to meet demand and for specialized design skills may also remain a part of our overall long term strategy. Given these capabilities we continue to look for opportunities to add value to our displays to increase revenue. • Leverage strategic relationships. External relationships play an important role in our research and development efforts. Suppliers, equipment vendors, government organizations, contract research groups, external design companies, customer and corporate partners, consortia, and university relationships all enhance the overall research and development effort and bring us new ideas and solutions. In addition, we participate in industry associations such as Society Information Display (“SID”), FlexTech Alliance (formerly known as United States Display Consortium), OLED Association, Consumer Electronics Association, and the Association of the United States Army, among others. Furthermore, we have established a CRADA (Cooperative Research and Development Agreement) with the US Army/RDECOM/NVESD as of August 2010 for the purpose of evaluating and characterizing new and existing AMOLED microdisplay configurations. This agreement expires in 2015. We believe that strategic relationships allow us to better determine the demands of the marketplace and, as a result, allow us to focus our future research and development activities to satisfy our customers’ evolving requirements. 8 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing We primarily provide our OLED display and optics components for OEMs to incorporate into their branded products and sell through their own well-established distribution channels. We have traditionally marketed and sold our products to customers through targeted selling, promotions, select advertising and attendance at trade shows. We identify companies with end products and applications for which we believe our products will provide a key differentiator. Marketing efforts focus on identifying prospects and communicating the product performance attributes foremost in the minds of purchasing decision-makers. We believe that this approach positions us to achieve the highest possible return on investment for our marketing expense. We market our products in North America, Asia, and Europe directly from our sales office located in our Bellevue, WA and Hopewell Junction, NY facilities. We also have distributors in China and Korea. An OEM design cycle typically requires between 6 and 36 months, depending on the uniqueness of the market, the complexity of the end product, or in the case of military OEM customers, government procurement schedules. Because our microdisplays are the main functional component that defines many of our customers' end products, we work closely with customers to provide technical assistance throughout the product evaluation and integration process. Customers Customers for our products include both large multinational and smaller OEMs. We maintain relationships with OEMs in a diverse range of industries encompassing the military, industrial, medical, and consumer market sectors. The following table estimates net product revenues in the market sectors. For the Years Ended December 31, Market 2014 2013 Commercial 23% 14% Military 59% 68% Commercial and Military 19% 18% The following table represents the domestic and international revenues as a percentage of total net revenues: For the Years Ended December 31, Geographic Location 2014 2013 United States 51% 62% International 49% 38% In 2014, we had 10 customers that accounted for approximately 50% of our total revenue as compared to 10 customers that accounted for approximately 59% of our total revenue in 2013. In 2014, we had no customer that accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue and in 2013, we had 2 customers that accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. Backlog As of January 31, 2015, we had a backlog of approximately $8.5 million for purchases through December 2015. This backlog primarily consists of non-binding purchase orders and purchase agreements but does not include expected revenue from R&D contracts or expected NRE (non-recurring engineering) programs under development. The majority of our backlog consists of non-binding purchase orders or purchase agreements for delivery over the next six months. Most purchase orders are subject to rescheduling or cancellation by the customer with no or limited penalties. We believe that the backlog metric is of limited utility in predicting future sales because many of our OEM customers operate on a ship-to-order basis. Variations in the magnitude and duration of purchase orders and customer delivery requirements may result in substantial fluctuations in backlog from period to period. Manufacturing Facilities Our manufacturing facilities are located at IBM's Microelectronics Division facility, known as the Hudson Valley Research Park, located about 70 miles north of New York City in Hopewell Junction, NY. We lease approximately 37,000 square feet of space which houses our own equipment for OLED microdisplay fabrication and research and development, includes a 16,300 square foot class 10 clean room space, additional lower level clean room space, assembly space and administrative offices. Facilities services provided by IBM include our clean room, pure gases, high purity de-ionized water, compressed air, chilled water systems, and waste disposal support. This infrastructure provided by our lease with IBM provides us with many of the resources of a larger corporation without the added overhead costs. It further allows us to focus our resources more efficiently on our product development and manufacturing goals. 9 Table of Contents We believe manufacturing efficiency is an important factor for success, especially in the consumer markets. Although we currently have the equipment needed for profitable production in place, we purchased $1.5 million and $1.9 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively, of additional equipment mainly related to manufacturing and we plan to add $2.3 million of equipment in 2015 to increase capacity and yield and to meet expected demand for our microdisplays. Competition The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We face competition from legacy technologies such as transmissive liquid crystal microdisplays (LCDs) and Liquid Crystal on Silicon (LCOS) displays as well as from alternative flat panel display technologies such as virtual scanning retinal displays. There are many large and small companies that manufacture or have in development, products based on these technologies. Kopin Corporation manufactures both transmissive and reflective LCDs and is currently our principal competitor. There are a few manufacturers of high resolution OLED microdisplays that produce microdisplays that compete with our microdisplay products. They are Yunnan OLiGHTECK Opto-Electronic Technology Co., Ltd. (Olightek) in China and MicroOLED in France. Both are shipping OLED microdisplays into the market. Sony Mobile Display Corp., in Japan, produces OLED microdisplays for integration into Sony’s own higher-level systems such as digital cameras and HMDs. In the near-term we do not expect these companies to significantly affect our U.S. military business, however we anticipate some effect from this competition on our international and commercial business. We may also compete with potential licensees of Universal Display Corporation or Global OLED Technology LLC, among others, each of which potentially can license OLED technology portfolios. If other new OLED-based companies enter our markets with directly relevant display designs and without manufacturing and reliability issues, we will face additional competition, though we believe that our progress to date in this area gives us a significant head start. In the future, we believe that competition will come from LCOS (“liquid crystal on silicon”), small transmissive LCDs, and OLED microdisplays manufactured by competitors. While we believe that OLED technology is technically superior providing higher quality images, greater environmental ruggedness, reduced electronics cost and complexity, and improved power efficiency microdisplays, there is no assurance that we will continue to be the dominant OLED microdisplay supplier. Intellectual Property We believe we have developed a substantial intellectual property portfolio of patents, trade secrets and manufacturing know-how. It is important to protect our investment in technology by obtaining and enforcing intellectual property rights, including rights under patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws. We seek to protect inventions we consider significant by applying for patents in the United States and other countries when appropriate. The U.S. Government holds licenses to much of our technology as a result of its funding a significant portion of our research and development. Our intellectual property covers a wide range of materials, device structures, processes, and fabrication techniques, primarily concentrated in the following areas: • OLED Devices, Architecture, Structures, and Processes; • Display Color Processing and Sealing; • Active Matrix Circuit Methodologies and Designs; • Lenses and Tracking (Eye and Head); • Ergonomics and Industrial Design; • Wearable Computer Interface Methodology; and • Legacy Field Emission and General Display Technologies. We believe that, in addition to patent protection, our success is dependent upon non-patentable trade secrets and technical expertise. To protect this information and know-how from unauthorized use or disclosure, we use nondisclosure agreements and other measures to protect our proprietary rights, and we require all employees, and where appropriate, contractors, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality and non-competition agreements. We believe that our intellectual property portfolio, coupled with our strategic relationships and accumulated manufacturing know-how in OLED, gives us a significant advantage over potential competitors. 10 Table of Contents Employees As of January 31, 2015, we had a total of 84 employees, of which 77 were full time. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be good. Available Information Our website address is www.emagin.com. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our Proxy Statements and all amendments to such reports filed under the Securities and Exchange Act after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These reports may be accessed from our website by following the links under “Investors,” then “SEC Filings.” The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report or in other reports filed with the SEC, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless we are required to do so by law. A copy of this Annual Report and our other reports is available without charge upon written request to Investor Relations, eMagin Corporation, 2070 Route 52, Hopewell Junction, NY 12533. We also post on our website the charters of our Audit, Compensation, Governance and Nominating committees, our Code of Ethics and any amendments of or waiver to such code of ethics, and other corporate governance materials recommended by the SEC as they occur, as well as earnings press releases and other business-related press releases. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information included herein as well as the information included in other reports and filings made with the SEC before investing in our common stock. The following factors, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, could cause our actual future results and financial condition to differ materially from those projected. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, should they materialize, and you may lose part or all of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS We have had losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. Our accumulated deficit is approximately $207 million as of December 31, 2014. We can give no assurances that we will be profitable in the future. We cannot assure investors that we will sustain profitability or that we will not incur operating losses in the future. We may not be able to execute our business plan due to a lack of cash from operations. We anticipate that our cash from operations will be sufficient to meet our requirements over the next twelve months. In the event that cash flow from operations is less than anticipated and we are unable to secure additional funding to cover our expenses, in order to preserve cash, we may have to reduce expenditures and effect reductions in our corporate infrastructure, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our current level of operations. No assurance can be given that if additional financing is necessary, that it will be available, or if available, that it will be on acceptable terms. Our operating results have significant fluctuations. In addition to the variability resulting from the short-term nature of commitments from our customers, other factors contribute to significant periodic quarterly fluctuations in results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • the receipt and timing of orders and the timing of delivery of orders; • the inability to adjust expense levels or delays in adjusting expense levels, in either case in response to lower than expected revenues or gross margins; • the volume of orders relative to our manufacturing capacity; • product introductions and market acceptance of new products or new generations of products; • changes in cost and availability of labor and components; • product mix; • variation in operating expenses; regulatory requirements and changes in duties and tariffs; • pricing and availability of competitive products and services; and • changes, whether or not anticipated, in economic conditions. Accordingly, the results of any past periods should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. 11 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO MANUFACTURING The manufacture of active matrix OLED microdisplays continues to evolve as better methods are discovered and employed and therefore we may encounter manufacturing issues or delays. Ours is an evolving technology and we are pioneers in this active matrix OLED microdisplay manufacturing technique. As such, we cannot assure you that we will be able to produce our products in sufficient quantity and quality to maintain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not experience manufacturing problems which could result in delays in delivery of orders or product introductions. We are dependent on a mostly non-redundant single manufacturing facility. We currently have little equipment redundancy in our manufacturing facility. If we experience any significant disruption in the operation of our manufacturing facility or a serious failure of a critical piece of equipment, we may be unable to supply microdisplays to our customers in a timely manner. For this reason, some OEMs may also be reluctant to commit a broad line of products to our microdisplays without a second production facility in place. However, we try to maintain product inventory to fill the requirements under such circumstances. Interruptions in our manufacturing could be caused by manufacturing equipment problems, the introduction of new equipment into the manufacturing process or delays in the delivery of new manufacturing equipment. Lead-time for delivery, installation, testing, repair and maintenance of manufacturing equipment can be extensive. No assurance can be given that we will not lose potential sales or be unable to meet production orders due to production interruptions in our manufacturing line. We rely on key sole source and limited source suppliers. We depend on a number of sole source or limited source suppliers for certain raw materials, components, and services. These include circuit boards, graphic integrated circuits, passive components, materials and chemicals, and equipment support. We maintain several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or because the relationship is advantageous to eMagin due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations (or a combination thereof). Even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We do not manufacture the silicon integrated circuits on which we incorporate our OLED technology. Instead, we provide the design layouts to a sole semiconductor contract manufacturer who manufactures the integrated circuits on silicon wafers. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of components and other materials or services on a timely basis could result in manufacturing delays, increased costs and ultimately in reduced or delayed sales or lost orders which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Generally, we do not have long term contracts or written agreements with our source suppliers, but instead operate on the basis of short term purchase orders. Our results of operations, financial condition and business would be harmed if we were unable to balance customer demand and capacity. As customer demand for our products changes, and as we enter new markets which may require higher volume mass production, we must be able to ramp up or adjust our production capacity to meet demand. We are continually taking steps to address our manufacturing capacity needs for our products. If we are not able to expand or if we increase our capacity too quickly, our prospects may be limited and our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. If we experience delays or unforeseen costs associated with adjusting our capacity levels, we may not be able to achieve our financial targets. For some of our products, vendor lead times exceed our customers’ required delivery time causing us to order to forecast rather than order based on actual demand. Ordering raw material and building finished goods based on forecasts exposes us to numerous risks including potential inability to service customer demand in an acceptable timeframe, holding excess inventory or having unabsorbed manufacturing overhead. Variations in our production yields impact our ability to reduce costs and could cause our margins to decline and our operating results to suffer. All of our products are manufactured using technologies that are highly complex. The number of usable items, or yield, from our production processes may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including but not limited to the following: • variability in our process repeatability and control; • contamination of the manufacturing environment or equipment; • equipment failure, power outages, or variations in the manufacturing process; • lack of consistency and adequate quality and quantity of piece parts and other raw materials; • defects in packaging either within or without our control; • any transitions or changes in our production process, planned or unplanned; and • certain customer requirements outside of our normal specifications. 12 Table of Contents We could experience manufacturing interruptions, delays, or inefficiencies if we are unable to timely and reliably procure components from single-sourced suppliers. We maintain several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or because the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. If the supply of a critical single-source material or component is delayed or curtailed, we may not be able to ship the related product in desired quantities and in a timely manner. Even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could harm operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secret protection, licensing agreements and other arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary technologies. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. Patents may not be issued for our current patent applications, third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent any patent issued to us, unauthorized parties could obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, rights granted under patents issued to us may not afford us any competitive advantage, others may independently develop similar technology or design around our patents, and protection of our intellectual property rights may be limited in certain foreign countries. On April 30, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court, in KSR International Co. vs. Teleflex, Inc., mandated a more expansive and flexible approach towards a determination as to whether a patent is obvious and invalid, which may make it more difficult for patent holders to secure or maintain existing patents. Any future infringement or other claims or prosecutions related to our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management's attention and resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Protection of intellectual property has historically been a large yearly expense for eMagin. For a period prior to 2008, we were not in a financial position to properly protect all of our intellectual property, and may not be in a position to properly protect our position or stay ahead of competition in new research and the protecting of the resulting intellectual property. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets and other non-patented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities. We try to protect this information through appropriate efforts to maintain its secrecy, including requiring employees and third parties to sign confidentiality agreements. We cannot be sure that these efforts will be successful or that the confidentiality agreements will not be breached. We also cannot be sure that we would have adequate remedies for any breach of such agreements or other misappropriation of our trade secrets or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. RISKS RELATED TO THE MICRODISPLAY INDUSTRY The commercial success of the microdisplay industry depends on the widespread market acceptance of microdisplay systems products. The commercial market for microdisplays is still emerging. Our long-term success may depend on consumer acceptance of microdisplays as well as the success of the commercialization of the microdisplay market. As an OEM supplier, our customer's products must also be well accepted. At present, it is difficult to assess or predict with any assurance the potential size, timing and viability of market opportunities for our technology in this market. The microdisplay systems business is intensely competitive. We do business in intensely competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in market requirements and competition from both other suppliers and our potential OEM customers. Such markets are typically characterized by price erosion. This intense competition could result in pricing pressures, lower sales, reduced margins, and lower market share. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. We expect these factors to include the following: 13 Table of Contents • our success in designing, manufacturing and delivering expected new products, including those implementing new technologies on a timely basis; • our ability to address the needs of our customers and the quality of our customer services; • the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use and pricing of our products; • successful expansion of our manufacturing capabilities; • our efficiency of production, and ability to manufacture and ship products on time; • the rate at which original equipment manufacturing customers incorporate our product solutions into their own products; • the market acceptance of our customers' products; and • product or technology introductions by our competitors. Our competitive position could be damaged if one or more potential OEM customers decide to manufacture their own microdisplays, using OLED or alternate technologies. In addition, our customers may be reluctant to rely on a relatively small company such as eMagin for a critical component. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competition, and the failure to do so would have a materially adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. The display industry may be cyclical. Our business strategy is dependent on OEM manufacturers building and selling products that incorporate our OLED displays as components into those products. Industry-wide fluctuations could cause significant harm to our business. The OLED microdisplay sector may experience overcapacity, if and when all of the facilities presently in the planning stage come on line, leading to a difficult market in which to sell our products. Our competitors have many advantages over us. As the microdisplay market develops, we expect to experience intense competition from numerous domestic and foreign companies including well-established corporations possessing worldwide manufacturing and production facilities, greater name recognition, larger retail bases and significantly greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than us, as well as from emerging companies who may be subsidized by their governments. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competition, and the failure to do so would have a materially adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products are subject to lengthy OEM development periods. We sell most of our microdisplays to OEMs who will incorporate them into products they sell. OEMs determine during their product development phase whether they will incorporate our products. The time elapsed between initial sampling of our products by OEMs, the custom design of our products to meet specific OEM product requirements, and the ultimate incorporation of our products into OEM consumer products is significant, often with a duration of between one and three years. If our products fail to meet our OEM customers' cost, performance or technical requirements or if unexpected technical challenges arise in the integration of our products into OEM consumer products, our operating results could be significantly and adversely affected. Long delays in achieving customer qualification and incorporation of our products could adversely affect our business. In order to increase or maintain our profit margins we may have to continuously develop new products, product enhancements and new technologies. In some markets, prices of established products tend to decline over time. In order to increase or maintain our profit margins over the long term, we believe that we will need to continuously develop new products, product enhancements and new technologies that will either slow price declines of our products or reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products. While we anticipate many opportunities to reduce production costs over time, there can be no assurance that these cost reduction plans will be successful, that we will have the resources to fund the expenditures necessary to implement certain cost-saving measures, or that our costs can be reduced as quickly as any reduction in unit prices. We may also attempt to offset the anticipated decrease in our average selling price by introducing new products with higher selling prices that may or may not offset price declines in more mature products. If we fail to do so, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our success depends on attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified technical and consulting personnel. We must hire highly skilled technical personnel as employees and as independent contractors in order to develop our products. The competition for skilled technical employees is intense and we may not be able to retain or recruit such personnel. We must compete with companies that possess greater financial and other resources than we do, and that may be more attractive to potential employees and contractors. To be competitive, we may have to increase the compensation, bonuses, stock options and other fringe benefits offered to employees in order to attract and retain such personnel. The costs of attracting and retaining new personnel may have a materially adverse effect on our business and our operating results. 14 Table of Contents Our success depends in a large part on the continuing service of key personnel. Changes in management could have an adverse effect on our business. We are dependent upon the active participation of several key management personnel and will also need to recruit additional management in order to expand according to our business plan. The failure to attract and retain additional management or personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance. Our operating results are substantially dependent on the development and acceptance of new products and technology innovations. Our future success may depend on our ability to develop new and lower cost solutions for existing and new markets and for customers to accept those solutions. We must introduce new products in a timely and cost-efficient manner, and we must secure production orders for those products from our customers. The development of new products is a highly complex process, and we historically have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. Some or all of those technologies or products may not successfully make the transition from the research and development lab. Even when we successfully complete a research and development effort with respect to a particular product or technology, it may fail to gain market acceptance. The successful development and introduction of these products depends on a number of factors, including the following: • achievement of technology breakthroughs required to make commercially viable devices; • the accuracy of our predictions of market requirements; • acceptance of our new product designs; • acceptance of new technology in certain markets; • the availability of qualified research and development and product development personnel; • our timely completion of product designs and development; • our ability and available resources to expand sales; • our ability to develop repeatable processes to manufacture new products in sufficient quantities and at low enough costs for commercial sales; • our customers’ ability to develop competitive products incorporating our products; and • acceptance of our customers’ products by the market. If any of these or other factors become problematic, we may not be able to develop and introduce these new products in a timely or cost-effective manner. If government agencies or companies discontinue or curtail their funding for our research and development programs our business may suffer. Changes in federal budget priorities could adversely affect our contract and display product revenue. Historically, government agencies have funded a significant part of our research and development activities. Our funding has the risk of being redirected to other programs when the government changes budget priorities, such as in time of war or for other reasons. Government contracts are also subject to the risk that the government agency may not appropriate and allocate all funding contemplated by the contract. In addition our government contracts generally permit the contracting authority to terminate the contract for the convenience of the government. The full value of the contracts would not be realized if they were prematurely terminated. We may be unable to incur sufficient allowable costs to generate the full estimated contract values. Furthermore, the research and development and product procurement contracts of the customers we supply may be similarly impacted. If the government funding is discontinued or reduced, our ability to develop or enhance products could be limited and our business results or operations and financial conditions could be adversely affected. Our business depends on new products and technologies. The market for our products is characterized by rapid changes in product, design and manufacturing process technologies. Our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop and manufacture new products and technologies to match the varying requirements of different customers in order to establish a competitive position and become profitable. Furthermore, we must adopt our products and processes to technological changes and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our failure to accomplish any of the above could harm our business and operating results. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers. Our business has primarily operated on the basis of short-term purchase orders. We receive some longer term purchase agreements, and procurement contracts, but we cannot guarantee that we will continue to do so. Our current purchase agreements can be cancelled or revised without penalty, depending on the circumstances. We plan production primarily on the basis of internally generated forecasts of demand based on communications with customers, and available industry data which makes it difficult to accurately forecast revenues. If we fail to accurately forecast operating results, our business may suffer and the value of your investment in eMagin may decline. 15 Table of Contents Our business strategy may fail if we cannot continue to form strategic relationships with companies that manufacture and use products that could incorporate our active matrix OLED technology. Our prospects could be significantly affected by our ability to develop strategic alliances with OEMs for incorporation of our active matrix OLED microdisplay technology into their products. While we intend to continue to establish strategic relationships with manufacturers of electronic consumer products, personal computers, chipmakers, lens makers, equipment makers, material suppliers and/or systems assemblers, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships on commercially acceptable terms, or that the alliances we do enter in to will realize their objectives. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business currently depends largely on our ability to manufacture and sell displays. Any interruption in our manufacturing processes or demand for our displays will negatively impact our business, including operations and financial condition. Our business depends to some extent on international transactions. We purchase needed materials from companies located abroad and may be adversely affected by political and currency risk, as well as the additional costs of doing business with foreign entities. Some customers in other countries have longer receivable periods or warranty periods. In addition, many of the foreign OEMs that are the most likely long-term purchasers of our microdisplays expose us to additional political and currency risk. We may find it necessary to locate manufacturing facilities abroad to be closer to our customers which could expose us to various risks, including management of a multi-national organization, the complexities of complying with foreign laws and customs, political instability and the complexities of taxation in multiple jurisdictions. Our business may expose us to product liability claims. Our business may expose us to potential product liability claims. Although no such claims have been brought against us to date, and to our knowledge no such claim is threatened or likely, we may face liability to product users for damages resulting from the faulty design or manufacture of our products. While we plan to maintain product liability insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that product liability claims will not exceed coverage limits, fall outside the scope of such coverage, or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates, if at all. Our business is subject to environmental regulations and possible liability arising from potential employee claims of exposure to harmful substances used in the development and manufacture of our products. We are subject to various governmental regulations related to toxic, volatile, experimental and other hazardous chemicals used in our design and manufacturing process. Our failure to comply with these regulations could result in the imposition of fines or in the suspension or cessation of our operations. Compliance with these regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. We develop, evaluate and utilize new chemical compounds in the manufacture of our products. While we attempt to ensure that our employees are protected from exposure to hazardous materials, we cannot assure you that potentially harmful exposure will not occur or that we will not be liable to employees as a result. Some of our business is subject to U.S. government procurement laws and regulations. We must comply with certain laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our federal government contracts, including the business that we do as a subcontractor. In complying with these laws and regulations, we may incur additional costs, and non-compliance may lead to the assessment of fines and penalties, including contractual damages, or the loss of business. Our international sales and operations are subject to export laws and regulations. We must comply with all applicable export control laws including the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”) and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”). Certain of our products may be deemed to be controlled for export by the U.S. Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security under the EAR or by the U.S. State Department’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (“DDTC”) under the ITAR. We believe certain of our new products with both high brightness and high resolution will be classified as a defense articles and licenses from the DDTC will be required for exports. Failure to comply with these export control laws can lead to severe penalties, both civil and criminal, and can include debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government. 16 Table of Contents Current adverse economic conditions may adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. The current economic conditions and market instability may affect our customers and suppliers. Any adverse financial or economic impact to our customers may impact their ability to pay timely, or result in their inability to pay. It may also impact their ability to fund future purchases, or increase the sales cycles which could lead to a reduction in revenue and accounts receivable. Our suppliers may increase their prices or may be unable to supply needed raw materials on a timely basis which could result in our inability to meet customers’ demand or affect our gross margins. Our suppliers may, also, impose more stringent payment terms on us. The timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK The substantial number of shares that are or will be eligible for sale could cause our common stock price to decline even if we are successful. Sales of significant amounts of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could materially affect the market price of our common stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of January 31, 2015, we have outstanding common shares of 25,195,107 plus (i) options to purchase 4,517,855 shares, and (ii) convertible preferred stock to acquire 7,545,333 shares of common stock. If a significant number of our outstanding options are exercised, you may experience a substantial dilution in your percentage ownership of our company. We are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. For example, we cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. If we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations. During our four most recently completed fiscal quarters, the closing price of our stock ranged from a low of $1.86 on October 8, 2014 to a high of $3.38 on January 10, 2014. The market price of our common stock in the future is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • variations in our operating results and financial conditions; • actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations, new product developments, or design wins by us or our competitors; • general conditions in the semiconductor and flat panel display industries; and • worldwide economic and financial conditions. In addition, the public stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market price for many technology companies and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. The broad market fluctuations and other factors may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents Concentration of ownership of our stock may enable one shareholder or a small number of shareholders to significantly influence matters requiring shareholder approval. As of January 31, 2015, Stillwater Holdings LLC (f/k/a Stillwater LLC) owned approximately 20% of our outstanding voting stock, Flat Creek Fiduciary Management, as trustee of a trust which the sole member of Stillwater Holdings LLC has investment control, owned approximately 13% of our outstanding voting stock and the sole member of Stillwater Holdings LLC is the investment manager of Rainbow Gate Corporation, which owned approximately 5% of our outstanding voting stock. Together such shareholders owned approximately 38% of our outstanding voting stock. As a result, these shareholders, if they act together, may be able to exert a significant degree of influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Further, if these shareholders act together with another shareholder, Ginola Limited, which has common directors with Mount Union Corp., Chelsea Trust Company and Crestflower Corporation, as of January 31, 2015, they would collectively have represented approximately 47% of our outstanding voting stock. This concentration of ownership may facilitate or hinder a change of control and might affect the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other shareholders. Nevertheless, the ability to influence the election of the Board of Directors or otherwise have influence does not modify the fiduciary duties of the Board of Directors to represent the interests of all shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 