D. RISK FACTORS. We depend upon one customer who accounts for at least 10% of our sales. We cannot be certain that these sales will continue; if they do not, our revenues will likely decline. Although we sell to a large number of customers in a variety of markets, one of our customers accounts for at least 10% of our sales. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, this customer accounted for approximately 8% of our 2006 sales and 10% of our 2007 sales. This customer is a non-affiliated third party and is not a related party of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Although we have maintained a good and longstanding relationship with this customer, we do not have any long-term contract with it and it orders only on a “purchase order” basis. The loss of this customer or a significant reduction in its orders would have a materially adverse effect on our revenues. We face significant competition from larger competitors in our wholesale and retail operations. The making and distribution of jewelry is a highly competitive industry characterized by the diversity and sophistication of the product. We compete with major domestic and international companies with substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources and personnel than us. There can be no assurance that other jewelry makers will not similarly develop low-cost, high-volume production capability or an even better process, providing greater competition for us and materially affecting our business prospects. -4- Table of Contents There are numerous factors relating to the operations of our business that could adversely affect our success and results. As a maker and merchandiser of low-cost, high-quality gem-set jewelry, our existing and future operations are and will be influenced by several factors, including: • technological developments in the mass production of jewelry; • our ability to meet the design and production requirements of our customers efficiently; • the market acceptance of our and our customers’ jewelry; • increases in expenses associated with continued sales growth; • our ability to control costs; • our management’s ability to evaluate the public’s taste and new orders to target satisfactory profit margins; • our capacity to develop and manage the introduction of new designed products; and • our ability to compete. Quality control is also essential to our operations since customers demand compliance with design and product specifications and consistency of production. We cannot assure that revenue growth will occur on a quarterly or annual basis. Our production facilities are located in China. Our results of operations and financial condition may, therefore, be influenced by the economic, political, legal and social conditions in China. Since 1978, the Chinese government has been reforming, and is expected to continue to reform, China’s economic and political systems. Such reforms have resulted in significant social progress. Other political, economic and social factors could also lead to further readjustment of the reform measures. This refinement and readjustment process may not always have a positive effect on our operations in China. At times, we may also be adversely affected by changes in policies of the Chinese government such as changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, the introduction of additional measures to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation and imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad. Changes to PRC tax laws may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. The National People’s Congress, the Chinese legislature, on March 16, 2007 passed a new enterprise income tax law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The new law applies a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate (“EIT”) to both foreign invested enterprises and domestic enterprises, except that enterprises that were approved to be established prior to March 16, 2007 may continue to enjoy the existing preferential tax treatments until December 31, 2012. Existing companies are required to transition to the new EIT rate over a five-year period starting January 1, 2008. -5- Table of Contents Under the New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise”, meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. Currently no official interpretation or application of this new “resident enterprise” classification is available, therefore it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our British Virgin Islands holding company is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%, in comparison to no taxation in the British Virgin Islands. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income”, we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, if our British Virgin Islands holding company is deemed to be a PRC tax resident enterprise, a 10% withholding tax shall be imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived from our non-PRC shareholders transferring our shares Our products are currently made at our production facility located in Shenzhen, China. However, our insurance may not adequately cover any losses due to fire, casualty or theft. We have obtained fire, casualty and theft insurance covering several of our stock in trade, goods and merchandise, furniture and equipment and production facility in China. The proceeds of such insurance may not be sufficient to cover material damage to, or the loss of, our production facility due to fire, severe weather, flood or other cause, and such damage or loss would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and prospects. Consistent with the customary practice among enterprises in China and due to the cost in relation to the benefit, we do not carry any business interruption insurance in China. Sales of our jewelry to retailers are generally stronger during the quarter ending December 31 of each year due to the importance of the holiday selling season. The approximately 34% of our wholesale sales during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 to our TV shopping channel customers was not seasonal in nature. It has been our management’s experience that the remaining 66% of our total wholesale sales is seasonally sensitive and is greater during the quarter ending December 31 of each year. -6- Table of Contents The success of our retail store expansion program in China is dependent upon numerous factors over which we have limited control. The future success of our ENZO retail stores in China is partially dependent upon general economic conditions in China, competitive developments within the retail jewelry sector in China and consumer attitudes, including changes in consumer preferences for certain jewelry styles and materials. In addition, our retail expansion program is also dependent upon a number of factors relating to our stores, including the availability of property, the location of the mall or shopping centre, the availability of desirable locations within a mall, the terms of leases, our relationship with major landlords, and the design and maintenance of our stores. We rely on short-term financing from banks for our daily operation. We rely on short-term borrowings as part of our financing needs. If we fail to achieve timely rollover, extension or refinancing of our short-term debt, we may be unable to meet our obligations in connection with debt service, accounts payable and/or other liabilities when they become due and payable. In addition, we may be exposed to changes in interest rates. If interest rates increase substantially, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Certain of our banking facilities that offer short-term borrowings are collateralized by properties owned by Yu Chuan Yih and by his personal guarantee. If Mr. Yih withdraws the properties or his personal guarantee, the banking facilities may no longer remain available for use by us. In that event, our daily operations may be adversely affected. We rely geographically on the US market for the majority of our revenue. Our wholesale business is our major revenue contributor and accounts for 77% of our total revenue. Geographically, North America is a major market for our wholesale business and contributes 68% of our revenues. Accordingly, the revenue of our wholesale business in the US market accounts for 53% of our total revenue. Any substantial decline of the US economy may adversely affect the spending patterns of the US consumers which could, in turn, adversely affect our revenue and income from the region. Our holding company structure creates restrictions on the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations, other than the ownership of our subsidiaries, of which we have control over their operation policies including, among others, payment of dividend. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we, as a holding company, decide in the future to do so, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants and minimum net worth requirements in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into US dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. -7- Table of Contents As a “foreign private issuer”, we are not subject to certain rules promulgated by Nasdaq that other Nasdaq-listed issuers are required to comply with. Our common shares are currently listed on The Nasdaq Global Market and, for so long as our securities continue to be listed, we will remain subject to the rules and regulations established by Nasdaq applicable to listed companies. As permitted under Nasdaq rules applicable to foreign private issuers, we have determined not to comply with the following Nasdaq rules: • our independent directors do not hold regularly scheduled meetings in executive session; • the compensation of our executive officers is not determined by an independent committee of the board or by the independent members of the board of directors, and our CEO may be present and participate in the deliberations concerning his compensation; • related party transactions are not required to be reviewed or approved by our audit committee or other independent body of the board of directors; and • we are not required to solicit shareholder approval of stock plans, including those in which our officers or directors may participate; stock issuances that will result in a change in control; the issuance of our stock in related party transactions or other transactions in which we may issue 20% or more of our outstanding shares; or, below market issuances of 20% or more of our outstanding shares to any person. We may in the future determine to voluntarily comply with one or more of the foregoing provisions. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us or our management. We are a British Virgin Islands holding company, and substantially all of our assets are located in China and Hong Kong. In addition, all but one of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or substantial portions of the assets of such non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons. Moreover, there is doubt as to whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands, China or Hong Kong would enforce: • judgments of United States courts against us, our directors or our officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or • in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands, China or Hong Kong, liabilities against us or non-residents based upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. -8- Table of Contents Some information about us may be unavailable due to exemptions under the Exchange Act for a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations applicable to a security registered under the Exchange Act; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction. Because of these exemptions, investors are not provided with the same information which is generally available about domestic public companies organized in the United States. Since we are a British Virgin Islands company, the rights of our shareholders may be more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith, and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. British Virgin Islands law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in US jurisdictions. In addition, the circumstances in which a shareholder of a BVI company may sue the company derivatively, and the procedures and defenses that may be available to the company, may result in the rights of shareholders of a BVI company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the US. Furthermore, our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval which would require shareholder approval under the laws of most US jurisdictions. The directors of a BVI corporation, subject in certain cases to court approval but without shareholder approval, may implement a reorganization, merger or consolidation, the sale of any assets, property, part of the business, or securities of the corporation. Our ability to amend our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in our control without any further action by the shareholders, including a tender offer to purchase our common stock at a premium over then current market prices. -9- Table of Contents Legal proceedings related to our historical reporting of financial results and other issues may significantly harm our business. Several lawsuits have been filed against us and certain officers and members of the Board of Directors, alleging false representations and material omissions in connection with press releases, SEC filings and other statements that purportedly overstated the Company’s business prospects and financial results. These lawsuits are described more fully in Part I, Item 8 and in Part I, Item 18, Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Form 20-F. Defending these lawsuits has and will continue to result in significant expenditures and the diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could have a negative effect on our business operations. From time to time, we may become involved in other litigation or other proceedings. Matters arising out of or related to the outcome of litigation could possibly harm our future results of operations or financial condition due to expenses we may incur to defend ourselves or the ramifications of an adverse decision. -10- Table of Contents 