ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risks that management believes are specific to our business. This should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. Further economic downturns in the market areas we serve could increase the credit risk within the loan portfolio Lending activities are our largest source of credit risk, which is the risk that a borrower will fail to meet their obligations in accordance with agreed upon terms. We manage the credit risk inherent in our loan portfolio through the establishment of sound underwriting policies and procedures. In light of current economic conditions management has increased oversight and risk management of the loan portfolio by implementing additional stress testing procedures, liquidity analysis and management reporting. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to absorb anticipated future losses. Although we consider our allowance for loan and lease losses to be adequate at December 31, 2008, a further downturn in the economy could result in higher delinquencies and defaults which would negatively impact our financial position. This could result in decreased net income from increased provisions to the allowance for loan and lease losses as well as decreased interest income resulting from an increase in nonaccrual loans. Further economic downturns may have an impact on our investment portfolios The deterioration in the credit markets created market volatility and illiquidity, resulting in significant declines in the market values of a broad range of investment products. We continue to monitor the investment portfolio for deteriorating collateral values and other-than-temporary impairments in our investment portfolio. Future loan losses may exceed our allowance for loan losses We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses (ALLL) in an amount that is believed adequate to provide for losses inherent in the portfolio as of the statement of financial condition date. The size of the ALLL is determined through quarterly assessments of the probable estimated losses in the loan portfolio. The ALLL is increased by provisions for loans losses charged to expense, and is reduced by loans charged off, net of recoveries. We believe the best information available is used to determine the ALLL. However, unforeseen market conditions could result in adjustments to the ALLL, affecting net income and capital, if circumstances differ from the assumptions used in determining the ALLL. For additional discussion see “Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses” see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this report. Rapidly changing interest rate environments could reduce our net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of our net income. Interest rates are key drivers of our net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the 21 Table of Contents control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Slower than anticipated growth in new branches and new product and service offerings could result in reduced net income We have placed a strategic emphasis on expanding our branch network and product offerings. Executing this strategy carries risks of slower than anticipated growth both in new branches and new products. New branches and products require a significant investment of both financial and personnel resources. Lower than expected loan and deposit growth in new investments can decrease anticipated revenues and net income generated by those investments, and opening new branches and introducing new products could result in more additional expenses than anticipated and divert resources from current core operations. The financial services industry is very competitive We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services throughout our market area. Our competitors include other community banks, larger banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than us. Decreased volumes and lower gains on sales and brokering of mortgage loans sold could adversely impact net income We originate and sell mortgage loans as well as broker mortgage loans. Changes in interest rates affect demand for our loan products and the revenue realized on the sale of loans. A decrease in the volume of loans sold/brokered can decrease our revenues and net income. Inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our revenues and net income We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in our net income. The tightening of available liquidity could limit our ability to replace deposits and fund loan demand, which could adversely affect our earnings and capital levels A tightening of the credit market and the inability to obtain adequate money to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may negatively affect asset growth and, therefore earnings capability, and capital levels. In addition to any deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, we rely on certain wholesale funding sources and uncommitted FHLB advances to fund loans and replace deposits. In the event of a further downturn in the economy, these additional funding sources could be negatively affected which could limit the funds available to us. Our liquidity position would be significantly constrained if we were unable to access funds from the FHLB or other funding sources. 22 Table of Contents Further declines in the Company’s market value could result in an impairment of goodwill. Recently, the Company’s common stock has been trading at a price below its book value, including goodwill and other intangible assets. Further declines in the Company’s common stock could result in an impairment of goodwill. If an impairment was deemed to exist, we would be required to write down our assets resulting in a charge to earnings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 